Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the call over to Byron Hinson Director of Financial Claims and Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
I would like to welcome everyone to our earning’s conference call including those who are joining us on the web cast.
As you know earlier today we announced the financial results for Q1 2011.
Joining us on the call today are Jimmy Addison – SCANA’s Chief Financial Officer Kevin Marsh – President of SCANA and Steve Byrne – Chief Operating Officer of SCE&amp;G.
We will review those results and then we’ll start answering your questions.
The slides and the earnings release that we’ll refer to in this call are available at <a href="http://www.scana.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.scana.com</u></a>.
(inaudible) Virginia I would like to remind you that certain statements that may be made in today’s call which are not statements of historical fact are considered forward looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties which are shown on slide two and discussed in the company’s SEC filings.
The company does not recognize an obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
I’ll now turn the call over to Jimmy.
Thanks Byron.
Good afternoon.
I would like to welcome each of you to our call also.
Let’s start on slide three which reflects SCANA’s 2011 Q1 basic earnings per share of $1 compared to $1.02 per share in 2010.
The decline in earnings was primarily attributable to weather in our Georgia market of natural gas rates stabilization act decrease in South Carolina higher depreciation and share dilution; all of which offset improved margins from electric based rate increases.
We are reaffirming our 2011 earnings guide of $2.95 to $3.10 per share with an internal target of $3.02.
Additionally with more than 90% of our earnings weather normalized I thought it might be helpful for you to understand our view of our annual earnings plan by quarter.
In our annual forecast we see this distribution as approximately 30% in both Q1 and Q4 25% in Q3 and the remaining 15% in Q2.
Hopefully this will be helpful in the quarterly distribution within your models.
I caution you to consider the combination of this quarterly distribution and our annual guidance in updating your models if you choose to use it at all.
Now on slide four I’d like to review results for our principal lines of business.
SCE&amp;G’s Q1 2011 earnings denoted in blue were up $.04 compared to 2010.
Improved electric margins from base rate increases under the base load review act and the mid-2010 retail electric rate case offset the lower gas margins from the RSA rate decrease and the higher capital related costs of depreciation property taxes and interest.
As you may recall in Q1 of 2010 we deferred for refund $25 million related to incremental margin from unusually cold weather as part of the implementation of our pilot electric weather normalization mechanism.
This program applies to residential and commercial electric customers and was fully implemented in August 2010.
The 2010 deferral had the effect of weather normalizing Q1 therefore there is no weather variance at the SCE&amp;G.
At March 31 2011 SCE&amp;G was serving approximately 663 000 electric customers and approximately 315 000 natural gas customers; up .6% and .9% respectively over the same date in 2010.
PS&amp;C Energy’s earnings for Q1 2011 in red were $.25 per share unchanged from Q1 of 2010.
Increases in margin from customer growth of 1.4% were offset by higher interest expense.
As with SCE&amp;G no wonder variance is seen at PS&amp;C due to the customer usage tracker or decoupling mechanism.
SCANA Energy in grain reported earnings of $.17 during the quarter compared to $.24 in the prior year.
The $.07 per share decrease in earnings is primarily attributable to weather.
The colder than normal weather in Q1 2010 contributed $.09 to earnings as compared to about $.02 from colder than normal weather in 2011.
Said another way although Q1 of 2011 was cold it was not nearly as cold as Q1 of 2010.
SCANA Energy was serving approximately 460 000 customers as of March 31 2011.
SCANA’s corporate and other businesses reported earnings of $.03 per share in Q1 of 2011 compared to $.02 per share in the same quarter last year.
Slide five shows our electric and gas sales statistics.
Unit sales of electricity and natural gas to our retail customers in Q1 of 2011 were down over the prior year driven by weather related decreases in our residential and commercial classes.
Of course our WNA and CUT mechanisms normalized margin and not unit sales.
The industrial sector continued the train of recovery with an increase in both electric and gas sales.
On slide six you can see an update of economic growth announcements during Q1 of 2011.
These recent announcements suggest the creation of more than 1800 new jobs with an investment of more than $600 million and are a continuing sign of a longer-term economic recovery in our service territory.
As you can see on slide seven we expect to complete our debt financings for 2011 next month.
As it relates to our cash position the final ROS rules for 2011 bonus depreciation were issued in March.
These final rules are consistent with the method we used to originally estimate cash will be generated from bonus depreciation as discussed during our February call.
In addition to bonus depreciation we continue to recognize a cash benefit and the method being used to account for capital maintenance which results in certain maintenance costs being treated as current expenses for income tax purposes.
Combined we expect these strategies to generate over $60 million in cash benefit.
Accordingly we do not expect to draw the remaining funds under our May 2010 equity forward until early 2012 which will mitigate dilution.
I’ll now turn the call over to Kevin Marsh.
Thanks Jimmy.
I would like to direct your attention first to slide 8.
As most of you are aware the United States environmental protection agency issued a proposed rule on March 16<sup>th</sup> 2011 which would provide the first national standards for emissions of mercury arsenic and other pollutants from coal and oil fired power plants.
We will review the proposed rules to better understand any potential impact on our operations.
The proposed rule must first be published under federal register then undergo a 60-day comment period and the EPA will also hold three public meetings.
Based upon the comments received the EPA may make changes to the proposal before it is finalized as early as November 6<sup>th</sup> 2011.
SCANA is committed to being a good steward of the environment and to meeting all the requirements set by state and federal regulators regarding power plant emissions.
After the final rule is available we will develop a compliant strategy based on the requirements of the rule compliant time frames and the estimated cost of various options for compliance.
Since the mid 1990s we have spent nearly a billion dollars installing environmental equipment in our fossil plants including most recently an SER at our Coat facility and (inaudible) and William Station plants.
That equipment has significantly reduced emissions of sulfur dioxide nitrous oxide and mercury on our system.
Let me turn now to our new nuclear project activities.
On slide nine I’m very pleased to report that our project for two new units remains on budget and on schedule for 2016 and 2019 respectively.
As you may recall on November 15<sup>th</sup> 2010 we filed a petition with the South Carolina Public Service Commission seeking approval to update the capital cost schedules for the construction of the company’s new nuclear units.
This filing was necessary due to the decision by the South Carolina Supreme Court last year which found that general contingency costs should not be included in forecast approved under the Base Load Review Act.
Instead as the proposed use contingency fund is identified and itemized in specific cost categories we must file with the PSC for approval.
The November 2010 filing identified and itemized certain capital costs of approximately $174 million that will be incurred during the construction of the new nuclear unit.
These are not additional costs nor is this an additional quest to raise customer rates.
We’re simply specifying how we intend to use some of the dollars that were originally included in the contingency fund in our initial BLRA filing now that we have more clarity of the construction outlook.
The hearing on this request was held on April 4<sup>th</sup> and we anticipate receiving permission order in May.
After receiving the order any approved capital costs already incurred will be added to those included in our revised rates filing under BLRA to determine the requested rate adjustment for 2011.
Please turn to slide ten.
On February 14 2011 we filed our quarterly status report with the CFC and the Office Of Regulatory Staff for Q4 of 2010 as required under our Base Load Review order.
This report provides a detailed update of capital costs incurred and updated milestones for our new nuclear project and is available on our website.
Additionally we intend to file our quarterly status report for Q1 2011 on Monday May 16<sup>th</sup> and our annual request for revised rate under the Base Load Review Act on Friday May 27<sup>th</sup>.
The remaining dates on this slide represent other regulatory filings we anticipate making later this year.
We are pleased with the progress of the projects and the continued regulatory support that we have received.
We believe that nuclear power is a clean non-invading source of energy which will position South Carolina well in the future particularly as environmental regulations surrounding greenhouse gases and coal increase.
I will now turn the call over to Steve Byrne who will discuss our COL application and provide and update on the status of our nuclear construction project.
Thank you Kevin.
Please turn to slide 11.
The nuclear regulatory commissions’ licensing proceedings continue to progress towards a successful conclusion.
We continue to anticipate receiving our combined operating license or COL in late 2011 or early 2012.
The COL during impact study referenced in the most recent BLRA filing was initiated by SCE&amp;G in December of 2010.
This detailed study is an evaluation of the alternatives for optimizing the construction schedule to make up the anticipated delay beyond the original construction schedule for the first under the EPC contract which assumed the COL would be issued in mid-2011 rather than our current expectation.
Construction schedules generally can be adjusted by adding shifts of construction workers working weekends undertaking scopes of work in parallel instead of in series and similar changes in the construction plan.
SCE&amp;G is involved in the ongoing oversight of the study and will review the results and any cost associated with compressing the schedule using such techniques.
While the situation is dynamic we anticipate that this study will be completed by the end of Q2.
SCE&amp;G continues to believe that the commercial operation date for the first will fall within the schedule approved by the South Carolina Public Service Commission including the allowable schedule contingencies.
There should be no adverse impact on the commercial operation date for the second meeting.
In late 2010 the NRC staff completed its technical review of the current AP1000 design for the shield building as well as other design changes proposed by Westinghouse and issued a favorable comprehensive advanced safety evaluation report for the units.
The advisory committee on reactive safeguards an independent panel of advisors in NRC also reviewed and recommended the AP1000 design and related changes and has determined that the current design is fully adequate to protect the public health and safety.
We received our final environmental impact statement last week and we anticipate receiving the final safety evaluation report this summer.
We believe the NRC will conduct a mandatory hearing in the fall this year.
I’d like to point out that there will be no contested hearing as all interveners challenges to SCE&amp;G COL application have been denied by both the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
After mandatory hearing is complete the NRC will make the decision regarding issuance of our COL.
As you see from the aerial photo on slide 12 we continue to proceed with pre-construction activity to the site and continue to receive parts on site in preparation for constructing.
After we receive the COL we will begin so called Nuclear Construction of the unit.
I’d like to point out that while we do not foresee a delay on the COL beyond late 2011 or early 2012 we are evaluating contingency plans for that scenario.
There’s a great deal of work that can be done on the unit prior to receipt of the COL.
For example the two largest modules CA01 and CA20 can be constructed simultaneously in the module assembly building and then moved into the excavation site once we receive the COL.
In the unlikely event that we might receive the COL in late 2011 or early 2012 as we expect we feel confident that we will be able to optimize our construction schedule for critical path items to reduce any significant impact to our in-service dates.
Finally I would like to briefly touch on the supply chain.
As you may know our turbine generators and steel plating for the containment vessels are being manufactured in Japan.
While these components represent less than 15% of the total project cost they are long lead-time components.
Our suppliers in Japan have assured us that they suffered minimal damage as a result of the natural disaster.
The biggest challenge these suppliers continue to face is related to their electric power supply.
Japan continues to have rolling blackouts so they are not able to operate at full capacity.
However we do not anticipate significant delays in our construction due to these supply issues.
That concludes our prepared remarks we’ll now be glad to respond to any questions you might have.
(Operator Instructions.) And our first question comes from the line of Ashar Karaun from VISSIM.
Please proceed.
Hey sorry I joined a little bit late.
Did you mention if you weather normalize what was the customer usage this Q1 versus last year’s Q1? Well other than our Georgia operations of course our margins are weather normalized for financial purposes.
So there is no difference in the earnings in any of the regulated companies from Q1 of last year to Q1 of this year other than Georgia.
No I understand that but I was trying to see is customer usage flat or is going down? On a trend basis? It’s neither.
It’s actually increasing.
So if you look at customer usage on a weather normalized basis it’s approximately 1.5% higher than it was in the same quarter of the prior year.
Okay thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Erica Piserchia representing Wunderlich Securities.
Please proceed.
Hi guys.
Just a quick follow up.
Ashar circled in on one of the questions I had just with regards to that comment on usage.
Any particular trends you know is that more on the residential side or is that kind of across the board as far as usage comparisons with last year? Well I’d say if it’s more attributable to any sector it would be industrials.
You can see in the information we disclosed in the back of the press release that industrials were up almost 5% year-over-year.
And last year was the first quarter that we saw significant increase from 2009’s first quarter in the industrial sales.
So we’re encouraged that we’re continuing to see growth over the growth of 2010 in the industrial category.
So I’d say the majority of it is in the industrial category.
Yeah we’ve seen a lot of job announcements we’ve got more detailed in our slides here today.
We’ve had more for you in the past there.
But we still have to see many of those announcements translate into more jobs which I think ultimately translates into more residential commercial usage.
Okay.
So it sounds like residential commercial then is relatively flat or would that have been you know down? No I don’t think it’s down.
I’d say I don’t have the details in front of me Erica but I would say it’s probably more flat.
Of course we have more customers but so kind of the same customer year-over-year I’d say it’s relatively flat.
Okay.
And then just two quick questions on the nuclear.
First I guess just a process question; I guess the last I had heard was that the NRC hearing with regard to the COL process was expected for midsummer and I think you expected you’re now expecting it in fall.
Any particular reason for that sort of date change or can you give any color on that? Well this is Steve.
The change from summer to fall really is within the NRC’s allowable variance in their process.
So it still could happen in late summer.
I’m not sure that we ever said midsummer but it still could happen in late summer but more than likely our anticipation is that it will be this fall.
Okay.
And then just a last question and I understand this is maybe one step further but just wondering if you can provide what your understanding is of where things stand with regard to the design certification process between Westinghouse and the NRC.
Sure.
Westinghouse has undergone a number of revisions to their certified design you know they were originally certified back in early 2006.
Since that timeframe they’ve had three revisions pending before the nuclear regulatory commission.
The rule for that change in the design or the change in the certified design has been out for comment for some period of time and I think the comments are due May the 10<sup>th</sup> and at the same time what Westinghouse is working on is a conforming revision to their DCDs.
That will be submitted in the form of DCD rev 19.
Now the exact date for submission of rev 19 I don’t know today.
It should be fairly soon but the definition of soon could be sometime in May or possibly stretching into June.
I’m really not sure.
But there will be a conforming DCD revision 19.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Marc de Croisset representing FBM Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Could you refresh my memory on what happens mechanically to cost recovery in the event there’s a slippage in construction timeframe for the nuclear plants or if there’s a later service date.
Are there allowanced for extraordinary events for example such as the failure of a supplier to meet its obligations.
Could you provide us a little color on that? Yeah.
This is Kevin.
When we filed the base load re-filing back in 2008 and requested approval for that the commission granted us an 18-month extension to the expected in-service date to account for any slippage in the schedule.
That would be a time delay allowance.
Anytime we might go over the cost that was approved by the commission in that filing with the capital costs schedules as we refer to those and are described in the quarterly report if we exceed that cost or we expect to exceed that cost we would have to go back to the commission to get approval for recovery of the additional cost which would give us the opportunity to put the reasons for that cost increase on the board with them and let them have a chance to ask us questions and evaluate that and make a decision.
And under the assumption that those would be prudently incurred costs they would include that in the capital cost schedules on a go-forward basis.
So timing enough of it sounds like you have an 18-month buffer with respect to timing of construction.
Is that correct? That’s correct.
They allowed us to go out 18 months.
We gave them a milestone schedule as part of that process and we can extend those milestones 18 months or accelerate them 24 months under that approved order.
As a follow-up I’m wondering if I guess on a related question if you had any further thoughts on lessons learned from Fukushima Daiichi.
This is Steve.
I guess I’ll take that.
First let me tell you that I think that it’s probably a little early for us to start talking about the lessons learned.
The nuclear regulatory commission has in process a lessons learned review that they’ll be reporting out and it’s a 90 day review and they’ll be reporting out at 30 60 and 90 days.
And I think May 12<sup>th</sup> is the advertised date for that first report out from that 30-day review.
Beyond that what the NRC is doing is they’re putting in place a taskforce to do a more in-depth review and that taskforce I believe it’s been selected once it starts its work it’s about a six month working time frame.
So I think that will probably put us somewhere near the end of this year.
And that taskforce will then report out.
So the NRC has a couple lessons learned of things in the work.
What we are doing is in the United States after September 11<sup>th</sup> of 2001 we put in place a number of practices procedures and equipment to compensate for loss of large areas of the plant.
And it really doesn’t make much difference as to what the reason for that loss is whether it’s an aircraft impact whether it’s a tornado hurricane whatever the reason is.
We had to have mitigating strategies and then some equipment staged.
Not necessarily staged at the plant location but staged so that you can get it to the plant location as soon as the plant location suffers some damage.
So one of the things we’ve done after the Fukushima accident was we verified all the equipment was in place and verify that all of our practices and procedures will work.
We did that through a group we belong to called WANO Nuclear Power Operations.
That group subsequently is one of the charter members of a world association of nuclear operators.
But the Japanese utilities are members of that world association and they will be reporting out on lessons learned through that group through WANO and we’ll get our information through the info link into WANO.
Though there’s a couple of one national and one worldwide industry of associations that will be formulating those lessons learned.
Now based on what we have seen I want to point out a couple things.
One the type of reactors that they’re using in Japan at that Fukushima site all six of their reactors were borne water reactors.
The reactors that we are building and the reactors we currently operate are pressurized water reactors.
So there is a fundamental difference in the way that the reactors operate.
Secondly their issue really was not caused as much by the earthquake as it was by the tsunami.
They had a significant wall of water that impacted that facility.
Our information in fact is that the plants rode through the earthquake pretty well; all the reactors shut down all the controls rods fully inserted the reactors went sub-critical the diesel generator started to carry the emergency loads and it wasn’t until almost an hour later when the tsunami flooded the facility that they lost that onsite power supply and then they were relying just on the battery.
Our facility is over 400 feet above sea level and we’re over 100 miles from the ocean.
So the tsunami issue for us will not be an issue.
So there are some fundamental differences we’ve looked into.
What we do expect to learn are things like communications batteries emergency planning communication to offsite agencies that didn’t go probably as smoothly as it could have or should have.
But one fundamental difference is that I don’t think the rest of the world took the events of September 11<sup>th</sup> of 2001 as seriously as the United States did probably for very good reasons.
But in the US we put in place beyond our design basis mitigating strategies at that point in time.
But most of the rest of the world probably didn’t pay a lot of attention to it.
That’s terrific.
Thank you very much for that explanation.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Yeah guys really two questions one bigger picture.
Can you talk about when you’ll get a little more certainty from your suppliers in Japan about whether there are timeline delays caused by some of the rolling blackouts? I mean do they give that to you on a weekly on a monthly basis how often do they check in with you to give you an update on where they are in the process.
Yeah sure.
They are checking in through our consortia because their contracts in general are with the consortia members.
So largely for the Japanese vendors that would be through Westinghouse.
They are checking with Westinghouse on a weekly or more frequent basis.
And remember that one of the suppliers is actually the parent company for Westinghouse and that’s Toshiba and that’s probably our largest supplier in Japan.
And again they have not indicated to us any significant damage.
In fact none of the vendors that we’re using whether it’s Toshiba IJI or some of their sub vendors has indicated to us that they’ve suffered any amount of real damage from the earthquake or tsunami.
We did have some equipment on the ground plate steel and that kind of thing and we verified that our equipment has not suffered any damage.
Now their rolling blackout situation is getting better.
And as much as it is now more predictable then it used to be and a number of vendors have indicated to us that they are now shifting their work schedules such that if power’s not going to be available during the day but it will be available at night then they’re bringing folks in at night to do the work.
So as of right now we’re not anticipating any real delays from the supply chain in Japan.
Got it.
Thank you.
And Jimmy one question just on the quarter a little bit.
If I take the total or EPS contribution that comes from what looks like it’s basically corporate and other and I back out the cost of holding company debt you’ve got a nice little contribution from kind of some of the other items.
Could you just kind of walk us through what those are? Yeah.
The principal item in there Michael would probably be our intrastate pipeline company CGT.
So that’s on an annual basis probably contributes $.07 or $.08 something like that in earnings on an annual basis.
And then our gas marketing business maybe $.02 or $.03 on manual basis from it.
So those are the most significant.
Got it.
So CGT and (inaudible) combined roughly $.09 or $.10 total on an annualized level.
That’s right.
Okay thank you.
Much appreciated.
And our next question comes from the line of Jim von Riesemann representing UBS.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon everyone.
Three quick questions; all just nuance type stuff.
The first one is on O&amp;M trends.
O&amp;M was down in Q1 can you talk about some of the O&amp;M trends especially in light of the comments you made in conjunction with the Q4 earnings call? Second question is at SCE&amp;G what was the earned ROE for either the trailing 12 or 13 months I forgot how you report it.
And then the final question is on your funding and cash flow impacts and needs going forward on bonus depreciation I think you mentioned it but the cash impacts on both 11 and 12 especially now that the rules are out and what are you thinking about your DRIP program in the next several years? Okay yeah thanks Jim.
On the first on O&amp;M we do continue to keep tight control around what we call core O&amp;M.
That’s the things that are really controllable by the wine businesses.
The things that have been and those are really we’ve maintained those relatively flat.
The one exception to that is that for the first time in three years we did have salary increases during Q1 that was impacted about half of the quarter for mid-February.
Very modest amounts of 2% to 2.5% something like that.
So you want to have a full run of that for a quarter until Q2.
The things that are offset that many of our incentive comp plans the part driven by shareholder return the costs of the revision in the long-term guidance that we did on the yearend call and because of the hit the stock took with the Japan crisis initially.
We were out of the money on those at the end of the quarter.
So there’s no incentive cost in there related to the shareholder return for Q1.
And the third thing I’d comment on about O&amp;M really relates to bad debt expense.
And we continue to have fairly good success in a very difficult economy with bad debt expense across the companies.
Certainly low natural gas prices have helped that.
A milder winter compared to a winter ago has kept total bills down has helped that as well.
And I think generally just people’s pulling back and concentrating on more critical items in the household they’ve maybe moved the utility bill up in the priority compared to some things they would have spent on a couple three years ago.
So we’re fairly encouraged about that but we’re going to watch that throughout the balance of the year so it’s kind of cautious optimism.
On the ROEs you asked about on the electric business we continue to be at about 10% just slightly under .995% but that is on a proforma basis and I would just caution you that so what we do as you’re probably familiar is we annualize expenses.
I gave you a moment ago the example of salary increases.
So in that 10% return that we filed with the regulators we’ll take any expenses what we’re aware of and known and measurable at the time and annualize a full year’s run rate.
So that usually results in a 20 to 40 basis point reduction off the actual return.
So when I give you slightly under 10% the actual return for the period may have been closer to 20 to 40 basis points higher.
We try to proforma the entire everything we know of at that point in time out in accordance with the regulator’s requirements.
And then the last thing I think you asked about cash flow and overall with the change we made in our capitalization policy and then the bonus depreciation on top of that we estimate in aggregate over $200 million of additional cash over those two plus years really a part of ‘10 ‘11 and ‘12 that would benefit us.
Therefore we don’t see ourselves taking down any of the remaining forward equity until Q1 of 2012 when we had originally projected to take that down in a few trenches during this year.
So we think we’re in much better position there from a cash basis and we don’t really see needing any additional equity beyond that in the equity forward until well into 2012.
So does that imply that you’re not going to do the DRIP program either for the next couple years or next year or so? Oh sorry.
No we will continue to run the reinvestment the shares from the dividend reinvestment as well as the 401k plan and that we’re going to write about $100 million a year.
Okay.
Super.
Thanks for the color.
Appreciate it.
And our next question comes from the line of Greg Wright representing (inaudible).
Please proceed.
Hi guys.
I saw that you guys mentioned that you were evaluating contingency plans in case the COL license is delayed and you guys were not expecting any sort of impact on the in-service dates of the units.
Just wanted to get a little bit more detail on the 2012 nuclear CAPEX.
If there were some sort of slippage in the COL timeline would you guys anticipate any of that CAPEX being delayed? I think the short answer is we probably would anticipate some of that being delayed.
But that would be in the what I termed the so-called nuclear construction because there are some things that I need a license in order to start.
But there are a significant amount of activities that we currently have ongoing that do not need the license and would continue.
Cooling towers for example we just started on cooling towers.
We’d be able to step our way through those.
There’s one permit we’re waiting on for the cooling towers but was dependent on us getting the final environmental impact statement.
Well we received that final environmental impact statement a little over a week ago so we should be cleared to do that now.
We can start the fabrication of the modules; these are the big modules that eventually will be put in the excavation.
We’ve got probably a year plus worth of work on the two biggest ones and we can stage those and start on some of the smaller modules.
The plate for the containment vessel bottom bowl the way you build a containment vessel is it’s almost two inch thick steel and you build a bottom bowl just a layer that looks like a big cereal bowl then you build some stackable rings and then you build the top portion of the bowl.
We received all the plate for the bottom bowl and we’ve got probably a years’ worth of fabrication on site to do that.
And then we’ll start receiving plate for the ring sites and that can all continue.
We’ve got the switchyard that we’re constructing.
That will go through probably through about 2012.
We’ve got a water treatment facility that eventually will supply all three of our units.
That can continue and we’ve got a number of other support piping intake structure discharge well water supply all those kinds of things you can go in.
So we’ve got a reasonably significant amount of work that will continue even if we did not get the COL when we anticipate it you know we would be looking at reconfiguring our critical path schedule and looking to see what kinds of things we can do external to the excavation that might be inserted once finished.
For example rebar; if we put the reinforcing bar together the matrix and the lattice together outside of the excavation and then lowered it in later that would remove that from critical pass.
So while we would anticipate that the capital spending would slow down in 2012 we would not certainly anticipate a cessation and it would be a reasonable significant amount that we can continue to do.
Got it.
And of that $832 million you guys have slated for 2012 how much is related to the construction CAPEX that you had mentioned that requires the actual COL? I don’t know that we’ve ever broken it down into COL required construction CAPEX.
So that may be a number we’d have to work on.
Okay but you guys would be able to I guess backfill some of that potential with these other items that you had just mentioned.
Oh yeah certainly.
Got it.
All right thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Chris Ellinghaus representing Wellington Shields.
Please proceed.
Hey everybody how are you? Steve can you I think you described pretty well that you don’t expect Japan to be a problem in terms of deliveries but is there any critical path items that you might be able to tell us when that delivery date might be just so we can get a further sense of how much time we have to catch up? Well off the top of my head what we’re looking at is our first critical path large items actually are not coming from Japan.
They’re coming from South Korea so they were Union-impacted.
And we actually opted to have most of our large forgings or ultra large forgings not done in Japan.
Currently their situation is still but there are only two places in the world where ultra large forgings can be done and that’s either in Japan or in Korea.
And we opted to have ours done in Korea.
So the forgings and the machining are all being done in Korea before shipment here.
We have plate steel that we are going to need for the first ring.
It should be coming from a company called IHI that’s the in Tokyo area.
And again we’ve contacted them and don’t anticipate any delays but we would expect to receive some of that steel in 2012 such that when we’re finished with the lower bowl we can start actually we’ll start before hand we’ll start on the first lane.
So the little bowl goes in first and then the first ring will go on after that.
So we would expect those deliveries in 2012 from IHI in the Tokyo area.
The turbine generator is a (inaudible) item but that wasn’t slated to start I think until sometime in ‘12 so we’re not going to receive that until probably sometime in ‘13 or ‘14.
Okay super.
Have you got any color for us in terms of DOE long guarantees and what you’re testing? I can add the color on that.
This is Kevin.
We have been participating in the loan guarantee process going through the due diligence and have gotten to a point where we believe we provided enough information to their team that will allow us to get some sort of information back on what sort of terms and conditions they might be attaching to the loan guarantees.
We know and it’s been reported they’ve got a deal with Southern on the Georgia projects.
We’d like to certainly see how those documents are laid out and what the requirements might be in there to make sure it would be something that would fit with us for the long-term period that those loans would run.
They present some challenges from a financing perspective because they’re twenty-year amortizing loans which means in that twenty-year period you’ll be out of the marketplace refinancing significant parts of the plant.
If you do accept the loan guarantees that gives us some concern with interest rates where they are today given that they’re likely to go up.
That could expose us to some fairly good-sized risk as opposed to thirty-year bonds that we typically do under our First Mortgage financing.
So we have told DOE that we need some more information before we go any further to evaluate the loans but I would reaffirm that we’ve said since day one we don’t need the loan guarantees to proceed with the project.
We’ve been very successful to date in doing the financing we need to bring the debt on board as necessary and that we certainly believe that will continue to be the case.
So we’ll continue to work with them as information becomes available.
But at this point I would say the ball is in their court to provide us additional information to help us do the evaluation; in the meantime we’ll continue with our First Mortgage-run debt issuances when they are necessary.
Okay great.
Jimmy there was I appreciate you gave some color in terms of the way you see your quarterly earnings pattern developing.
The Q4 surprised the sort of imputed Q4 on the midpoint of your guidance seems a little surprising to me.
Can you maybe provide some color on things that you see in the Q4 that might lead to what seems to be a significant year-over-year increase? Well yeah I mean you’re going to have- We’ve got two or three things going on that could impact it.
One we’ve got a last year was an abnormal year for the RSA at SCE&amp;G Gas because we had a decrease – the first time we’ve had a decrease since we’ve had that mechanism.
I don’t expect that to be the case this year.
I expect to see a modest increase this year so you’ve really got that going in opposite directions – that kind of exacerbates the difference.
We’ve got a rate proceeding at our interstate pipeline company CGT that I mentioned earlier in response to a question and I think those new rates will be in effect by that time so we’ll have some benefit coming in from that as well.
And then you’ve just got year-over-year continued improvement that we’ve seen in the industrial sector as well in addition to R&amp;C additions in all of our businesses.
So I think most of those main top line factors are positives and we continue to do a pretty good job maintaining expense controls.
So I think most of the changes are benefits on a year-over-year basis.
Okay great.
And then one final thing – can you just remind us and I am inferring from what you said that if you don’t take down any of the Forward sale this year at all that you’d take it all down in the Q1 next year? What would that bring you to for your total for 2012 equity including your normal plans? Well the balance in the Forward at the time we executed the deal was about $240 million but because we’ve issued those under the Forward you know we’re not paying the dividends each quarter.
The underwriters pay those to the holders of the shares.
So the net proceeds decrease every time there’s a quarterly dividend and those are paid by the underwriter rather than us.
So if we hold those until the end of Q1 in 2012 the $240 million would be more like maybe $210 million or $215 million net proceeds in addition to the approximately $100 million through the (inaudible) plans.
Okay great.
Thanks so much I appreciate it.
And our next question comes from the line of Dan Jenkins representing State of Wisconsin Investments.
Please proceed.
Hi good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
First I just want to clarify your response to Char on whether normalized sales growth at electric you said it was 1.5 – is that total sales or total retail sales? Total total retail.
Total retail? Yes.
Okay.
And then somewhat related to that I saw the Q1 your wholesale was up 11.1%.
Was that just opportunity sales or do you have some new contracts on the wholesale area or what drove– Yeah it’s not a new contract.
It’s just energy sales to one significant customer we have the North Carolina EMC’s and it’s really it’s 10% 11% but last year’s quarter there’s so little going on in that arena these days with the recession a small change looks like a significant amount but it’s not a large amount.
But it’s not any new contracts.
Okay.
And then I was curious if you’d give us a little more color on the $0.16 electric margin variance as to how much of that’s related to the base mode review increases and if there’s any related just you know normal sales growth and so forth? Right I would say about $0.06 of the $0.16 is related to the base load review.
The most significant amount is related to the base rate increase that was effective mid of August last year so this is the first time that Q1 has had that base rate increase in it.
And then there’s some in there for base customer growth but I would say that’s a minimal amount maybe a half cent something like that.
Okay.
And then I was wondering if you could give me what the CAPEX was for the Q1? Dan I don’t have the actual CAPEX at my fingertips here but we’d be glad to provide that prospectively if it’ll be of some assistance to you.
I can tell you that we’re not I don’t think we’re significantly off our plan.
Okay.
How about cash flow from operations? Would that be the same answer? Yeah I really don’t have that.
We’ll file our Q next week and you’ll have that information in the Q next Wednesday I believe.
Okay.
And then the last thing I had questions on was on your slide #10 you kind of showed the regulatory update related to the upcoming base load review filing.
And last year’s was about double the year before; how should we think about this year’s in comparison to the prior year? Is it about similar size or will it continue to increase? This is Kevin.
I don’t know that it’ll change significantly from last year.
We have not determined that final number.
It’ll be based on the expenditures that are available at the time that filing is made.
If you go back and look at the schedules in the quarter before and the schedules for the base load review filing it gives you an estimate by year of how much we expect to be spending.
And we should be pretty close to those numbers and we’ll finalize that when the filing is made.
Okay thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Erica Piserchia representing Wunderlich Securities.
Please proceed.
Hi just two quick follow-up questions.
First kind of getting back to what Greg was asking about you mentioned in your comments that you could absorb a delay in the COL issuance by moving things around in 2012.
Can you give us a sense of sort of what point during the year past which you would have to start shifting CAPEX into 2013? You mentioned you can absorb a delay in early 2012 but I would imagine you probably can’t if a COL was delayed materially beyond I don’t know the middle of the year.
Just trying to get a better sense of sort of where the strain or the sensitivity is to that ability to shift things around a little bit from a timing perspective.
Yeah I think the short answer is it would depend on how long any potential delay would be at the time when we were made aware of it but we would probably start to reconfigure schedules and CAPEX if it became obvious to us that we were not going to get the license by about the first of the year.
But if they came back and said it was going to be a week’s delay obviously that wouldn’t be significant; if they said it was three months’ or six months’ then we would begin to do a reevaluation of what we’re going to do and in what sequence we’re going to do it.
And that would then facilitate the capital expenditure changes.
Okay so it seems that putting that together with your comment that early 2012 is sort of the (inaudible) on that we’d be looking at delays maybe beyond the middle of the year or something that would cause some material reorganization of those activities relative to what you could do if it was just a matter of a couple weeks or a month or something like that.
Certainly if it was a matter of just a couple weeks it wouldn’t be a huge impact to us.
What we’re trying to do is balance the amount of resources that we’ve got on the site along with the equipment and the work we’ve got for them to do.
So we want to try to keep as many people actively engaged as we can to avoid taking folks that we have already trained and allowing them to go home and then run the risk that they may not come back when we’re ready to recall them.
So we’re going to balance that we’re doing that now in fact.
We’re looking at what our resource leads need to be and what they need to look like.
So if it’s going to be significantly beyond when we expect it that could have an impact but we have continued to say – I think we’ve been saying for about two years now – that we expect to see it around late 2011 early 2012 and as of right now we don’t know anything to say that’s anything different.
Okay okay.
And then my last question is just actually I forgot to ask this earlier but just thinking back to your advised earnings growth target of 3% to 5% that you pointed out is there a way you can kind of give us a better sense of what that implies for the underlying growth in the base the utility base business kind of excluding the nuclear angle? Erica I don’t have an exact number of how you break that down between nuclear and the base business.
I mean we are more conservative about the business than we were a few months ago as we outlined on the year-end call but I’d also say it’s not as simple as just parsing those and saying well if you’re not doing new nuclear what’s the underlying growth? Because we’ve got to do something.
We’ve got to have generation on the system to meet customers’ needs down the road and let’s take the extreme case and say there’s a long-term delay or even a stoppage to new nuclear development.
Well under the law in South Carolina we’re going to take the accumulated equip costs to date and go to the Commission and get that amortized over some period to start getting the actual return of that investment back to investors We’re also going to begin some type of new generation solution most likely I would presume some type of combined cycle gas units.
So we have looked at that scenario in the extreme case contingency plan only and still think that falls within the long-term earnings guidance that we provided.
Right absolutely understood and I definitely understand that there’s a need for sort of additional base load generation in some form or another in the unlikely event… I guess it sounds like the nuclear project was cancelled.
I guess my question was more to the existing outlook today.
I think one of the things that people kind of struggle to get their arms around is you know you’ve got this 3% to 5% growth rate and how much of that is driven by new nuclear or something else if new nuclear were not to work out; versus how much is driven by organic growth in the business sort of excluding the larger sort of base rate addition-type projects? Yeah and again I don’t have an exact number to it but certainly the majority of it now is driven by the CAPEX for the new nuclear because of the other CAPEX is basically funded by the cash of the existing business.
So there’s the depreciation from the existing business netted with the new CAPEX there’s not a significant amount of rate base going in there.
Until customer growth returns in the southeast to the levels more like there was in the past that’s going to be the case.
It’s going to be driven from rate base addition not from new customers.
Okay gotcha.
So then just remind me for that 3% to 5% it’s actually just for your 2011 guidance.
What’s the load growth the sales growth function in that range? I think you talked about it on the Q4 call but I can’t remember it off the top of my head.
Yeah we’ve got very little growth in there maybe less than 1% customer growth in that plan which is basically what we’re experiencing to this point.
Customer growth – that’s kilowatt hour sales or growth in number of customers? Number of customers.
We’ve not presumed that existing customers change their patterns in the near term.
Okay of usage got it got it.
Yes.
Okay thank you.
Sure.
And our next question comes from the line of Adola Murdhi representing CDP Capital.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon.
Let’s see I think has to do a little bit with one of your other questions about how operations and procedures might change post-Japan.
I’m just wondering whether we’ve seen over a period of years the last 10 15 years a significant reduction in the outage days in terms of doing a turnaround for refueling and other types of things at the nuclear units and across the industry.
And I’m wondering at a minimum whether you feel there’s a possibility that those types of fast turnarounds and those types of things may in the future need to be extended if just nothing else just as a precaution and just to perhaps have more vigorous enhanced inspections and other types of things while you have the opportunity while the plant’s down? This is Steve I’ll take that one.
There is nothing that we’ve seen coming out of Japan so far that would say that their problems or their issues have been caused by a lack of maintenance and/or preventative maintenance or modifications to their facilities.
So I would not see any impact on outage duration to the US nuclear industry as a result of Japan at least from what we have seen so far.
And no indications from regulatory bodies or anything like that about that type of a short-term response? No.
Again I’m struggling to come up with an example of something that we would do in an outage that would need to be extended.
The problem again was the tsunami and the initiating event was an earthquake off the coast and I don’t know of anything at the plants that they would do in a normal refueling-type shut down and maintenance outage that would necessitate making it longer that would help them deal with what they saw in Japan.
Alright thank you very much.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides representing Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Hi guys easy question – what do you think your timing is for the next round of general rate cases at both SCE&amp;G Electric and Gas as well as the North Carolina Gas utility? Mike we haven’t picked any particular dates.
That’s something we evaluate on an annual basis depending on what the earned returns are.
Certainly at the 10% level I don’t think it’s likely we would seek any additional rate relief.
I really think it’s dependent upon how quickly we see customer growth come back to the system in terms of what would drive capital spending that would be at cost or higher than what we’re seeing in annual deprecation rates that would need to be recovered for the process; or if we have extreme environmental expenditures that aren’t in the budget today it might come down later that we have to do we’d have to get recovery of those to make sure we could get a shareholder return back to those investors.
But if you look back to what we’ve done we’ve kind of been on a two- to three-year cycle.
And that’s not an absolute predictor of the future but certainly we’ll look at that on a year-to-year basis.
Got it okay.
Thanks guys.
Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Reeder representing Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Hey Kevin you just mentioned potential environmental spend.
Assuming the nuclear project goes forward on time and in line with the EPA’s proposed rules I mean what sort of environmental compliance spend do you forecast and you know what’s the timing on that? I don’t know that we’ve had enough time to evaluate how the particular rules may impact our current plants.
We’ve got six plants on our system; we’ve made significant expenditures in those plants over the last decade.
As you know the rate case we had last year was to put two scrubbers and an SCR in for three of our larger plants.
We have other plants that are smaller that it might not be economical to add equipment to depending on what final rules and regulations might be.
That’s flexibility we have built in in our integrated resource plan that we have provided to the Commission in terms of the possibility of not running or eventually retiring some of those older units when the nuclear plants come online so we’ll continue to evaluate that.
Based on what we’ve got in the plan that gives us the flexibility to respond to an economy that might stay the same that it is today or if it increases that’ll give us some flexibility to respond to that also.
But would you expect that if you retire some of the smaller plants the larger ones that you do have scrubbers on or SCR’s there would be some additional compliance CAPEX in the way of maybe bag houses [ph] or something that we might see in say 2013 ‘14 ‘15 timeframe? I might let Steve give you some more detail on that in terms of the type of equipment that would be on but the three largest plants virtually have the equipment that we know are available today from the technology perspective.
You may want to add some color to that Steve.
All of our larger plants have got the scrubbers SCR’s and bag houses [ph] even a couple of our smaller plants have bag houses for particular controls.
So again as Kevin said it hasn’t even been noted in the Federal Registry yet.
They’ve got a comment period and it’ll be November sometime at the earliest before we see any kind of a final rule promulgated; and we’re going to need to see what that looks like prior to making any decisions on plants.
But at our larger units we would not anticipate any significant actions with regard to environmental CAPEX for those units to come into compliance with what we understand to be the rules so far.
Okay thanks that’s very helpful.
With no further questions in the queue I would now like to turn the call back over to Jimmy Addison for closing remarks.
You may proceed.
Thanks.
Just to summarize we’re really pleased with our Q1 results.
Our weather normalization mechanisms continue to provide us greater predictability in our earnings patterns for the majority of our businesses.
Our nuclear project continues to move forward on schedule and under budget and our service territories continue to experience customer growth.
We’re optimistic about our future and look forward to further success in 2011 and we thank all of you for joining us today and thank you for your interest in Scana.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Thursday August 4 2011.
Anyone who does not consent to the taping may drop off the line.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Byron Hinson Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Thank you and I’d like to welcome everyone to our earnings conference call including those who are joining us on the webcast.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the second quarter 2011.
Joining us on the call today are Jimmy Addison SCANA’s Chief Financial Officer; Kevin Marsh President of SCANA; and Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer of SCE&amp;G.
The slides and the earnings release that we’ll refer to in this call are available at scana.com.
Before I turn the call over to Jimmy I would like to remind you that certain statements that may be made during today’s call that are not statements of historical facts are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties which are shown on slide 2 and discussed in the company’s SEC filings.
The company does not recognize an obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Finally as noted on slide 2 we may disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation and the required Regulation G information can be found on our website.
I’ll now turn the call over to Jimmy.
Thanks Byron and good afternoon.
I would like to welcome each of you to our call.
Let’s start on slide 3 which reflects 2011 second quarter basic earnings per share of $0.44 compared to $0.43 in 2010.
The increase in earnings was primarily attributable to improved margins from electric base rate increases and lower operations and maintenance expenses which were partially offset by higher property taxes depreciation interest expense and share dilution.
In addition we experienced a weather benefit of $0.06 per share in the second quarter of 2010 in the Electric business.
Of course we now have an electric weather normalization mechanism effective in August of 2010 so our margins do not experience large fluctuations due to weather.
Please turn to slide 4.
For the six months ended June 30 2011 basic earnings per share were $1.44 compared to $1.45 for the same period in 2010.
Increases in electric margin from base rate increases and lower operations and maintenance expenses were more than offset by the abnormal weather in the prior year a gas rate decrease under the Rate Stabilization Act higher interest expenses property taxes depreciation and share dilution.
Based upon our results to date and our expectation for the balance of the year we are re-affirming our 2011 earnings guidance of $2.95 to $3.10 per share with an internal target of $3.02.
We continue to actively monitor the economy and aggressively manage operations and maintenance expenses.
Now on slide 5 I’d like to review results for our principal lines of business.
SCE&amp;G’s second quarter 2011 earnings denoted in blue were down $0.02 per share compared to 2010.
As I mentioned earlier the second quarter of 2010 included a weather benefit of $0.06 per share.
In the current quarter our electric weather normalization mechanism removed the impact of abnormal weather from our margins.
Additionally improved electric margins from base rate increases under the Base Load Review Act and the mid-2010 retail electric rate case were offset by increases in depreciation interest and dilution related to our CapEx program.
At June 30 2011 SCE&amp;G was serving approximately 664 000 electric customers and approximately 313 000 natural gas customers up 0.6% and 1.0% respectively over the same dates in 2010.
PSNC Energy in red reported a seasonal loss of less than $1 million or $0.01 per share in the current quarter relatively unchanged from the prior year.
Lower operations and maintenance expense and increases in margin from customer growth of approximately 1.6% offset decreases in other income.
SCANA Energy in green reported a seasonal loss of $0.02 per share during the quarter compared to a loss of $0.05 in the prior year.
The $0.03 change is driven by cooler weather early in the quarter compared to last year and lower operating expenses.
SCANA Energy was serving approximately 460 000 customers as of June 30 2011.
SCANA’s corporate and other businesses reported a loss of $0.01 unchanged compared to the same quarter last year.
On slides 6 and 7 you see our electric and gas sales statistics unit sales of electricity and natural gas to our retail customers in the second quarter of 2011 were up over the prior year.
Of course our WNA and CUT mechanisms normalize margin and not unit sales.
The industrial sector continued to show signs of recovery with an increase in both electric and gas sales.
On slide 8 you can see an update of economic expansion announcements during the second quarter of 2011.
These recent announcements suggest the creation of approximately 500 new jobs with an investment of more than $230 million.
At the bottom of the page you will find unemployment data.
If you look to the far right of this chart you’ll find data for the Charleston and Columbia South Carolina metropolitan areas.
These areas include a large portion of our electric service territory.
As you can see from the numbers the unemployment rate in those areas is slightly better than national rate and the rates of the three states in which we operate.
We are pleased that our territories continue to see customer growth and announcements of jobs and investment.
As these trends continue lower unemployment will be expected to follow.
Please turn to slide 9.
In May we completed our previously announced debt issuances for 2011.
We refinanced $300 million in medium term notes at SCANA and also we issued $100 million in new first mortgage bonds at SCE&amp;G.
We were pleased with investor response to both of these transactions and I am delighted to have completed these (inaudible) prior to the recent turmoil in Washington related to debt limits.
As previously discussed we continue to recognize a cash benefit from bonus depreciation and from the election to account for certain maintenance cost as current expense for tax purposes.
Combined we expect these strategies to generate over $60 million of cash benefit for 2011.
Accordingly we do not expect to draw the remaining funds under our May 2010 equity forward until 2012 delaying the impact of share dilution.
Finally I would like to touch briefly on the earned regulatory returns at our three largest regulated subsidiaries.
As you can see on slide 10 our electric business earned 9.16% for the 12 months ended March 31.
This figure does not include any new nuclear CWIP or associated rate increases as those amounts are handled separately under the Base Load Review Act.
Since the time of our latest electric rate case filing which used the test year ended September 30 2009 we have seen increases in costs such as property taxes depreciation and interest which have put downward pressure on our actual regulatory return.
As of March 31 our gas businesses at SCE&amp;G was earning approximately 8%.
Under the terms of the Rate Stabilization Act we have applied for an increase of $8.64 million to restore the return to 10.25%.
After an audit of the application the new gas rates will become effective in November.
Our North Carolina gas business continues to perform well and is earning its allowed return.
As you can see from the timeline at the bottom of the chart we have completed most of our planned regulatory filings for the year.
In addition to the items shown on this slide we will continue to make quarterly filings with the South Carolina PSC related to our nuclear construction project and for the electric and gas businesses at SCE&amp;G.
I’ll now turn the call over to Kevin Marsh.
Thanks Jimmy.
Let me turn now to our new nuclear project activities on slide 11.
I am very pleased to report that our project for the two new units remains on budget and on schedule for completion in 2016 and 2019 respectively.
In May 2011 we filed our annual request for revised rates under the Base Load Review Act.
The revenue increase requested was $58.5 million based on estimated incremental CWIP through June 2011 of approximately $485 million.
Earlier this week the Office of Regulatory Staff filed their report related to the requested increase.
The report reflected actual CWIP through June of $437 million and a resulting rate increase of $52.8 million.
We agree with the revised amount from the ORS report.
After approval by the South Carolina Public Service Commission this will be the fourth rate increase we have received under the BLRA.
The revised rate will go into effect in November.
Please turn to slide 12.
On May 16 2011 we filed our quarterly status report with the PSC and the Office of Regulatory Staff for the first quarter of 2011.
This report provides a detailed update of capital costs incurred and updated milestones for our new nuclear project and is available on our website.
As shown on the slide we are $163 million under the capital cost approved by the Commission most of which is due to lower-than-anticipated escalation.
We intend to file our quarterly status report for the same quarter of 2011 on August 15.
Recently Duke Energy and the Florida Municipal Power Agency announced that they both had signed letters of intent with Santee Cooper for potential minority interest in Santee’s 45% ownership of the new nuclear units under construction at V.C.
Summer.
Santee Cooper continues to be a co-owner and co-applicant in V.C.
Summer units 2 and 3 as set forth in the combined license application currently being reviewed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
And we do not expect these letters of intent or the one that Santee Cooper has signed with the Orlando Utilities Commission to have an impact on the issuance of our COL.
If Santee Cooper decides to move forward with a sale of a portion of its output or interest in the two new nuclear units it would help Santee accomplish its previously stated objective of lowering its participation in these two units.
SCE&amp;G will continue to operate the two new units and there is no change in our 55% share of ownership which is needed to meet customer demand comply with environmental regulations and reduce carbon emissions.
I’ll now turn the call over to Steve Byrne to discuss our COL status and environmental regulations.
Thanks Kevin.
I’d now like to direct your attention to slide number 13.
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission’s licensing proceedings continue to progress towards a successful conclusion.
This past Tuesday we received a letter from the NRC Office of New Reactors that outlines an updated schedule for issuing our Final Safety Evaluation Report or FSER.
The letter made three points.
First the staff concluded that they have all the information they need to complete the safety review and that our application was complete.
Second the review supports the issuance of our FSER in September and third the completion of the mandatory hearing on the V.C.
Summer COL application including issuance of a Commission decision should be no later than four months from the issuance of the latter of the FEIS which we received in April or the FSER which the letter states will be received in September.
So the remaining issue is the ultimate approval of the AP1000 certified design itself.
Westinghouse submitted DCD Revision 19 to the NRC on June 13.
After the NRC’s review of this design revision the next step would be the issuance of the final safety evaluation report for the AP1000 design which we believe to be imminent.
Following that the NRC will go for a rule-making process which we anticipate will provide for the receipt our COL within our previously announced timeframe of late 2011 or early 2012.
As Tuesday’s NRC letter suggests we anticipate a Commission decision to approve our COL no later than January of 2012.
I’d like now to spend a few minutes to touch on the NRC taskforce report on the Fukushima accident or the so-called 90-day report that was issued on July 12.
SCE&amp;G has consistently embraced measures which protect public health and safety.
Recognizing this report is early in the process.
We fully support assessments by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and other independent oversight authorities that might help further improve safe operation of nuclear reactors in the U.S.
now and in the future.
SCE&amp;G remains committed to its nuclear strategy which includes operating Unit 1 safely and progressing with the plans for Units 2 and 3.
This is consistent with conclusions in the 90-day report.
The report concluded that continued operation and continued licensing activities do not pose an eminent risk to public health and safety and we are certainly in agreement with that statement.
The taskforce also supported completing the design certification and rule-making activities for the AP 1000 without delay.
Finally I would like to briefly touch on the impact of environmental regulations on our coal fleet as seen on slide 14.
On July 6 2011 the EPA issued the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule.
This rule replaces the Clean Air Interstate Rule and is aimed at addressing power plant emissions that may contribute to air pollution in other states.
The rule requires states in the Eastern United States to reduce power plant emissions specifically sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide.
In general the most effective control technologies for reducing sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions are the combination of scrubbers and selective catalytic reduction or SCR.
As you can see from this slide around 70% of our coal megawatts already have a scrubber and SCR installed.
These units account for approximately 80% of our dispatched total generation.
In anticipation of more regulation we will continue to pursue additional strategies and evaluate emissions-reduction technologies to ensure that we are in compliance with all environmental regulations.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We will now be glad to respond to any questions you might have.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question will come from the line of Andrew Levi from Caris &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Hi guys.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
See you.
Inc.</strong> I guess on August 1 Moody’s issued a credit research report on you guys and put you on a outlook – I guess it’s negative outlook.
But I think it sounds like they’re just going to downgrade your ratings at SCANA issuer ratings senior unsecured junior subordinated and commercial paper but again just on the SCANA level it seems like is the bigger issue.
And then I guess your issuer rating at SCE&amp;G but on the ones that are Baa2 just in general could be the ones that are Baa3 on junior subordinated.
What if any implications does that have? I mean I don’t know if there are any I’m just going back to like the Enron days but any type of triggers anything in your indenture anything like that that you would have to put up any type of cash or just in general what are the implications if you were to get a one notch downgrade on these various things that have been put on watch for downgrade? Right.
Well it is disappointing but I think practically to get to your question there’s very little impact.
We have one financing to do at the holding company in the next nine years that’s next year it’s actually a refinancing not new money for about $250 million.
So that’s the only thing that’s really in our headlights for the – as I said the next nine years through 2019.
The only other implication would be slightly higher cost for short-term money if we were to borrow any at the holco.
We have not had any commercial paper program at the holding company until we renewed our credit facility this past fall.
We instituted one at the holco and have used it sparingly.
We don’t expect to use it a great deal but that market is not as liquid as the P2 market if were to be downgraded to P3 at the holco but of course we got the credit facilities in place that we could fall back on and borrow.
But we really put that there as just a contingency anyway.
So all of our financing for the CapEx is going to be – we plan to be through first mortgage bonds at SCE&amp;G of course most of our commercial paper is there or at the fuel company which are not part of this review and we would expect that when we come out of this that all of the entities will be on – probably on stable outlook which will kind of remove that overhang from the SCE&amp;G.
Inc.</strong> And again there’s no type of collateral issues or anything like that that if you were down to Baa3 on the issuer rating or the unsecured rating or cut the junk in junior subordinated there is no...
Not aware of anything like that.
Inc.</strong> Right.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
I think that’s it for now.
Thank you very much.
Your next question will come from the line of Erica Piserchia with Wunderlich Securities.
Inc.</strong> Hi everybody.
Just a few questions.
I guess first Jimmy you mentioned earned returns at the utility and some higher costs; I’m just wondering whether or not this changes your thinking in terms of when you might go in and file for your next rate case? Not really.
I mean we’ve historically been on a two to three year cycle at each of the regulated entities.
We just had the increase last July.
So we don’t think we’re near that range at all at this point.
And we’ve talked a great deal over the last several quarters about the industrial announcements that are out there.
You see another good quarter in industrial usage this quarter even over a growth year last year so we’re looking for that to start to pay off at some point in additional jobs and hopefully buoy the residential the commercial markets.
But we really don’t see any change in that at the near-term.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
I guess I’m just a little confused because – so you’ve got some higher costs kind of coming in and yet you’re not seeing a ton of growth on your customer base.
Is that that you’re spending sort of in anticipation as you just mentioned of this recovery or there is something else going on there? No I think you need to look at the nature of those costs and if you have a copy of the press release handy; on page 5 where we do the variance explanations you’ll see that O&amp;M cost is actually down for the quarter and year-to-date.
Inc.</strong> But we’re just talking about like depreciation and interest...
Exactly.
It’s all capital program-related.
It’s depreciation property taxes and interest or dilution whether it’s debt or equity and of course in our case it’s about 50-50.
So it’s all related to that we’re well within that capital plan so it’s not a surprise to us at all.
More of the drift down this quarter is just due to the dropping off of that weather benefit that was in the second quarter of 2010 the last full quarter before we implemented the weather normalization so that was a step down that we anticipated in and realized.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then just on the nuclear side I mean I know things are progressing it seems like we’re getting a little bit more communication on timing maybe from the NRC with yesterday’s announcement but I really did never ask you guys this but would you ever consider filing for a limited work authorization along the lines of what Southern has done? Yeah we have in the past considered limited work authorizations Southern’s first LWA was specific to their site and it’s something that we did not need and we considered the second LWA that Southern signed we were looking at something very similar but you have to remember that it’s the same agency and the same staff of that agency that we have to review the limited work authorization and our evaluation showed that we might be able to save a few weeks to a month which I think is probably about where Southern is and based on the level of effort the cost and the potential distraction of the NRC we decided that was not worthwhile so we don’t anticipate any limited work authorizations.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Okay thank you.
Sure.
Your next question will come from the line of Jim von Riesemann with UBS.
Good afternoon gentlemen.
Hi Jim.
Hi Jim.
A question on this – I wanted to follow up on some of Kevin’s comments in his prepared remarks but Santee Cooper’s potential sell-down and their stake in the new units what role do you have or what say do you have in any of – if that occurs? You get some new co-owners? We’ve talked about this before and let me go back to it again.
Any sale of their 45% portion of the new plant does require our approval and the approval of the South Carolina Commission and if they just decide to sell the power and not actually sell the portion of the asset it doesn’t require any approval from us but if they do decide to actually sell assets or their portion from the 45% we do have the right to approve that and once we were to do that it would go to the South Carolina Commission but that’s not something I see that would stand in the way of them trying to accomplish their goals.
Now they’ve certainly been working hard to lower that level of ownership and these letters of intent they signed are very important step.
Our relationship with Santee continues to be strong and I think they’ll continue to be a great partner with us as we go forward because they still do plan on maintaining a significant portion of their original investment.
And we’re working with them to help them achieve their goals.
So they’ve been doing that negotiating and as they go forward at the appropriate time we’ll have a chance to look at what they’ve negotiated and decide if that’s in the best interest of the project.
But I’m comfortable if that’s something they want to move forward with we’ll find a way to work that out than take it to the Commission.
Just and then a follow-up question.
What do you think the mechanics are with respect to an actual sale of the facility itself rather than the output? I mean how do they think about the economics? Santee has already dedicated certain amount of dollar amount.
Are they going to get recovered dollar for dollar and they don’t have to worry about earnings per share I know the state doesn’t but how should we think about that? Well I certainly don’t think they would be interested in moving those assets at a loss compared to where they’ve invested.
I think the price they’ve invested in this project from their perspective and also from ours even though we’re regulated and they’re not is a very favorable price.
We think it’s going to be competitive over the long term.
I know they believe that too which is why they certainly want to stay in for as much as they think they’ll need.
So I can’t speak for them but I’d be surprised if they were looking to look out or to move this at some sort of fire sale price.
It’s a valuable asset but I think once the COLs are actually issued will become even more valuable.
So we’ll look forward to that and see what we can do to help them.
But in the meantime our 55% need does not change.
I’ve gotten that question a lot too.
We remain committed to our 55%.
We certainly need that to meet the needs of our customers and that really hasn’t changed.
Okay.
Thanks.
That’s all I had today.
Thanks guys.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question will come from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Hey Jimmy got a just a rate increase favor to ask can you kind of bridge us meaning rate increases that are last to go in to rates in the second half of this year or that were granted or sitting on the table to be granted for implementation in the back end of this year or beginning of next year.
Just trying to true up my numbers to make sure I’ve got the appropriate amount of rate increases what’s already been taken what’s left to be taken but already approved etcetera? Michael the short answer to that is from a financial statement perspective it’s indifferent.
The only difference is what comes in to cash because you may remember the two things that we used to phase that in was the $25 million weather – favorable weather from the first quarter of 2010 we’re going to spread that back over the first year.
So that’s essentially all been given back in an amortization now so we brought that income in to offset the lack of the cash increase from the customers so that was a wash.
And the second one was the tax credits that we phased in over a two-year period the EIZ tax credit state investment credits.
But in both of those cases even though the customers hasn’t seen the full increase until a 24-month period the financial statements are getting the full benefit from day one.
Okay.
But that’s just the core base rates on the electric side at SCE&amp;G.
Can you – like how much of the last granted BLRA increase has actually been recovered year-to-date versus is remaining for third in – through mid-November recovery meaning what was put in the rates in November of last year? Yeah I mean I don’t have this.
I see what you’re asking Michael I don’t have that at my fingertips.
I don’t have the cyclical division of the total number how much of it’s been recognized year-to-date at my fingertips but we can get you that.
Yeah I would love to – and I’m trying to do it for BLRA granted and implemented in November of ‘10 trying to do it if there is anything left on the SCE&amp;G electric.
I see the SCE&amp;G electric – I mean gas rate increase request the $8 million plus and then obviously the BLRA filing for the coming November implementation? Sure yeah we can provide that.
Of course we’ve considered all three of those in our earnings guidance for the year.
Understood.
Okay.
One another question just general O&amp;M trajectory and general trajectory of interest expense kind of through the end of this year versus what you’ve recorded in the first half of the year? Yeah.
Well generally interest is going to be increasing as we increase the CapEx program and of course we have financed almost the entirety of our debt portfolio with fixed rate financing.
So we have very little risk when if rates ever move back up.
We’ve protected against that since we’re financing long-term assets here.
But on operating cost we’ve really worked very hard to keep those down and you see they are in the information that we’ve released today as I alluded to earlier we’re down both for the quarter and year-to-date on operating costs about $5 million year-to-date and that’s in spite of a modest salary increases earlier this year for the first time in three years.
So we’re working hard on that.
We continue to work hard on that for the 2012 plan and I’m encouraged by the direction we’re headed.
So I would think we can maintain the cost control as we move through this period until the economy takes a definitive direction up.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you Jimmy.
I’ll follow up offline.
Sure.
Your next question is a follow-up from the line of Andrew Levi with Caris &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Hi did you guys say that you were done on the debt side for the year? Is that what you said? Yes.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So nothing needs to be issued in this crazy market? That’s exactly right.
We completed everything at the end of May.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then is there any type of guidance you can give us for the third and fourth quarters? In what regard? Inc.</strong> Earnings kind of a breakdown of earnings for the third and fourth quarter what we should be thinking about I don’t know if you want to give on a percent basis anything like that relative to last year? Yeah well we’ve reaffirmed our guidance obviously with $2.95 to $3.10 in our – for your benefit our internal target’s about $3.02.
And as I told you earlier in the year on our yearend call when we gave guidance we really target about 25% of our plan is in the third quarter and slightly under 30% in the fourth quarter.
Inc.</strong> Thank you.
Sure.
There are no further questions.
That does conclude the Q&amp;A of today’s conference.
I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Jimmy Addison for closing comments.
Okay well thank you.
To summarize we’re very pleased with the second quarter results.
Our basic earnings for the quarter are higher than the prior year which included a significant weather benefit in the prior year.
Our territories continue to experience modest customer growth and significant industrial expansion and our nuclear project continues to move forward on schedule and under budget.
We’re optimistic about the remainder of the year and look forward to speaking with you about that in the future.
And thank you all for joining us today on the call.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
My name is (Rocco) and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Wednesday October 26 2011.
Anyone who does not consent to the taping may drop off from the line.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Byron Hinson Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Financial Planning and Investor Relations</strong> Thank you and I’d like to welcome everyone to our earnings conference call including those who are joining us on the webcast.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the third quarter of 2011.
Joining us on the call today are Kevin Marsh President of SCANA; Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer of SCE&amp;G; and Jimmy Addison SCANA’s Chief Financial Officer.
The slides and the earnings release that we’ll refer to in this call are available at scana.com.
Before I turn the call over to Kevin I would like to remind you that certain statements that may be made during today’s call which are not statements of historical facts are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risk and uncertainties which are shown on slide two and discussed in the company’s SEC filings.
The company does not recognize obligation to update any forward looking statements.
Finally as noted on slide two we may disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation and the required Regulation G information can be found on Investor Relations website.
I’ll now turn the call over to Kevin.
Thanks Byron and thank you all for joining us today.
During today’s call we will provide an update on our nuclear project and our recent hearing before the NRC.
We will also discuss our results for the third quarter and our financial guidance for the balance of 2011 and for 2012.
As you all know Bill Timmerman announced his retirement earlier this year.
He will be retiring at the end of November and I will be moving into my new role as CEO.
Bill and I have worked together for many years.
He has and will continue to be a valuable resource for me personally and for the company.
I am pleased to report that our transition is progressing as planned and I look forward to my new responsibilities.
We continue to see significant industrial announcements in our service territory.
On slide three we have provided an update of economic expansion announcements.
This period was very impressive including a large expansion at the Bridgestone tire facility in Aiken County and a new continental tire operation in Sumter County.
In total announcement since July 1st suggest a creation of over 3000 new jobs with an investment of approximately $1.9 billion.
This brings our year-to-date planned industrial investments to over $2.5 billion with more than 5 500 job additions.
In addition to industrial growth we also continue to see customer growth in our residential and commercial categories.
These are promising signs of economic recovery and we are excited to be positioned to provide clean safe reliable energy for the citizens and industries in South Carolina in the future.
Please turn to slide four.
We’ve set forth our regulated returns and related filings.
The chart at the top of the slide shows allowed returns at our three largest regulated subsidiaries as of June 30 2011 the date of our most recent filing.
The third quarter earned returned filings for our Electric and Gas businesses will be made in mid-December.
Our electric business earned 8.6%.
The decrease from the previous filing was due primarily to the elimination of the second quarter of 2010 which was positively impacted by weather.
You might recall beginning in the third quarter of 2010 we implemented a weather normalization mechanism so our returns at the Electric business are no longer impacted by weather.
This figure does not include any new nuclear CWFE or associated rate increases as those allowances were handled separately under the Base Load Review Act.
As of June 30 2011 our gas business at SCE&amp;G was earning approximately 7.72%.
This does not incorporate the recent 8.5 million rate increase will effective in November of this year under the Rate Stabilization Act.
This increase will restore the return to approximately 10.25%.
And overall earned returns in the Gas business fall 50 basis points above or below our allowed return of 10.25% we adjust rates through our annual Rate Stabilization filing.
Our North Carolina gas business continues to perform well and is earnings its allowed return principally due to the growth in the business and cost control.
As you can see form timeline at the bottom of this slide we have completed all of our – one of our plan regulatory filings for the year.
On slide five we review our new nuclear Base Load Review Act filings and related rate increases.
As we mentioned in our second quarter call we filed our annual request for revised rates under the Base Load Review Act in May.
In response to that request in September the Public Service Commission of South Carolina approved an increase of $52.8 million or approximately 2.4% to the retail electric rates of SCE&amp;G.
The new rates will be effective for bills rendered on or after October 30 of this year.
Our BLRA filings for 2011 are shown at the bottom of the slide.
As you can see on August 15th we filed our quarterly status report on our new nuclear project with a commission and office of regulatory staff for the second quarter of 2011.
This report provides a detailed update of capital cost incurred and updated milestones for our new nuclear project and is available on our website.
We intend to file our quarterly status report for the third quarter of 2011 on November 14th.
I am pleased to report that our project for the two new units continues to be on budget and on schedule for completion in 2016 and 2019 respectively.
Finally SCE&amp;G and Santee recently executed the permanent construction and operating agreements which will govern and construction and operation of the new nuclear facilities.
Under these agreements SCE&amp;G will have a primary responsibility for oversight of the construction of the units and will be responsible for the operation of the units as they come on line.
I’ll now turn the call over to Stephen Byrne to discuss some other aspects of our nuclear project and environmental matters.
Thanks Kevin.
I would now like to direct your attention to slide number six.
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission’s licensing proceedings continued to progress towards a successful conclusion.
Please focus on the blue section of the chart.
On October 13 we completed the uncontested mandatory hearing before the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
SCE&amp;G believes it presented evidence that all requirements have been met to allow the NRC to issue the combined construction and operating license for V.C.
Summer Units 2 and 3.
We anticipate a decision from the NRC regarding our COL in the coming months.
Now if I can get you to focus on the green section of the chart related to the approval of the 81000 certified design you see it as in the rule making process.
The NRC has indicated that the full commission intends to act on the final certification by year end.
This timeline continues to align with our expectation that we’ll receive our COL in late 2011 or early 2012.
As Kevin mentioned construction of the units is progressing on schedule and continues to support the units coming online in 2016 and 2019.
As we have previously discussed earlier this year we asked Shaw and Westinghouse to perform a COL delay impact study.
You might recall that this study related to various cost and timing alternatives arising from the anticipated COL issuance of mid 2011 timeframe when we signed the EPC contract in 2008 to the current timeframe of late 2011 early 2012.
This study is not in any way an indication that we are expecting additional delays in receipt of the COL.
This study provides for three scenarios.
The first scenario compresses the construction schedule for Unit 2 the first new unit to retain the original commercial operation date set forth in the EPC contract.
The second scenario pushes out the commercial operation date for Unit 2 by six months.
The third scenario considers delaying the commercial operation date of Unit 2 and accelerating the date for Unit 3 in order to take advantages of economies and efficiencies in the construction schedule.
By narrowing the gap between the units it may be possible to create construction efficiencies by avoiding the demobilization and remobilization of crews as we progress from one unit to the next.
SCE&amp;G has been negotiations with the Shaw Westinghouse consortium to determine the preferred scenario.
We do not anticipate a decision on the COL Delay study until later this year.
Finally I would like to briefly touch on the impact of environmental regulations on our coal fleet.
Please turn to slide number seven.
We continue to evaluate the impact of alignment of regulations particularly the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule.
The rule requires states in the Eastern U.S.
to reduce power plant emissions specifically sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide.
At this time we still believe the most effective control technologies for reducing sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions are the combination of scrubbers and selective catalytic reduction or SCRs.
As you can see in the top of this chart on the slide 69% of our coal capacity already has scrubber and SCR technology.
These units account for approximately 80% of our dispatched coal generation as these are our larger more efficient plants.
The charts at the bottom of the slide demonstrate our current and anticipated generation mix after the two new nuclear plants at V.C.
Summer come online.
Our coal fleet composes slightly over 50% of our current generation mix.
We anticipate that percentage to drop to 24% as we will rely less heavily on coal in the future.
In anticipation of more regulation we will continue to pursue additional strategies and evaluate emissions reduction technologies to ensure that we are in compliance with all environmental regulations.
I will now turn the call over to Jimmy Addison.
Thanks Steve and good afternoon.
Let’s start on slide eight which reflects 2011 third quarter basic earnings per share of $0.81 compared to $0.80 in 2010.
The increase in earnings was primarily attributable to improved margins from electric base rate increases which were partially offset by interest expense and share dilution.
On slide nine for the nine months ended September 30 2011 basic earnings per share were $2.25 per share unchanged from the same period in 2010.
Increases in electric margin from base rate increases and lower operation and maintenance expenses were partially offset by the gas rate decrease under the rate stabilization act that was effective in November 2010 higher interest expenses property taxes depreciation and share dilution.
Based upon our results to date and our expectation for the balance of the year we are reaffirming our 2011 earnings guidance of $2.95 to $3.10 per share with our internal target of $3.02 per share.
Now on slide 10 I’d like to review results by principle lines of business.
SCE&amp;G third quarter 2011 earnings denoted in blue were $0.05 per share higher than 2010.
Improved electric margins from base rate increases under the base load review act were partially offset by increases in depreciation interest and dilution.
At September 30 2011 SCE&amp;G was serving approximately 665 000 electric customers and approximately 313 000 natural gas customers up 0.8% and 1.3% respectively over the same date in 2010.
The PSNC energy in red reported the seasonal loss of $0.03 per share in the current quarter compared to $0.04 per share in the prior year.
Increased margin from customer growth of approximately 1.7% was slightly offset by depreciation and property taxes.
SCANA Energy in green reported a seasonal loss of $0.03 per share during the quarter compared to a loss of $0.02 in the prior year.
The $0.01 change is driven by lower margins which were partially offset by lower operating expenses.
SCANA Energy was serving approximately 450 000 customers as of September 30.
SCANA Energy along with three other marketers entered the bid process to service the regulated provider for the state for the upcoming term of September 2012 through August 2014.
The commission is scheduled to make a selection in February 2012.
SCANA Energy has served as a regulator provider since 2002.
SCANA’s corporate and other businesses reported a loss of $0.05 per share compared to a loss of $0.01 per share during the third quarter of 2010.
The results for 2011 reflect higher income taxes at the holding company during the quarter due to levelizing the effective tax rate as required by accounting standards.
Slides 11 and 12 show our electric and gas sales statistics.
These numbers have not been weather normalized.
Recall that our WNA and CUT mechanisms normalize margin but obviously not unit sales.
Retail sales of electricity are down 1.5% for the quarter due to lower residential and commercial sales primarily as a result of milder weather this year partially offset by higher industrial sales.
Retail sales of natural gas showed a decrease of 1.8% for the quarter.
While the residential and commercial categories showed improvement industrial gas usage declined slightly when compared to the third quarter of 2010 due to lower sales for power generation in the current quarter again driven by milder weather.
Now I would like to discuss our 2012 earnings guidance and related assumptions as shown on slide 13.
Our 2012 preliminary guidance is $3.05 to $3.25 per share and our internal target is $3.17.
This guidance assumes known industrial expansion and continued customer growth at recent levels.
While we anticipate the number of customers will increase our assumption of usage per customer is slightly lower reflecting continued energy efficiency and the economy in general.
As it relates to expenses operations and maintenance expense is expected to remain relatively flat with modest growth related to CapEx expansion in property taxes depreciation interest expense and dilution.
We project an effective tax rate of approximately 30% for 2011 and 2012.
Additionally we have included the impact of base rate increases from our new nuclear filings and the RSA and the effects of additional cash flow from our tax strategies.
These tax strategies will enable us to delay drawing down the remainder of the equity forward until the fourth quarter of 2012 and postpone a supplemental equity offering until 2013 thus minimizing the effects of dilution in next year as I’ll discuss in more detail when I cover our financing plan shortly.
As Steve mentioned earlier we are still making a decision on the COL delay study.
Our guidance is necessarily broader than normal to accommodate the range of potential outcomes he discussed.
Once the decision on the study is finalized we will update you and provide information about how the decision impacts our guidance range capital forecast and financing plan.
While we continue to see some signs of a longer term economic recovery the signals are mixed.
As a result we remain conservative in our estimates and cautiously optimistic about our longer terms sustain recovery.
We reaffirm our long-term outlook to deliver 3% to 5% earnings growth over the next three to five years based on the 2010 weather-normalized base of 292.
Slide 14 presents our preliminary CapEx forecast.
The estimates for 2012 and ‘13 are slightly less than the forecast represented a year ago.
As you can see from the slide our new nuclear spending accounts for more than half of our total capital spending over the next three years.
Now please turn to slide 15.
This slide represents our estimated financing plan through 2014.
We anticipate completing two debt refinancings in 2012 and ‘13.
Our only planned issuances of new debt will be at SCE&amp;G to support our new nuclear construction.
Regarding equity we intend to continue to issue shares through our 401(k) and DRIP programs yielding approximately $100 million per year.
As mentioned in previous calls we have adapted two tax strategies which have provided additional cash flow.
These are bonus deprecation and the election to deduct repairs expense as opposed to capitalizing those costs.
Because of the cash benefits we have seen from these strategies we planned to extend the May 2010 equity forward and postpone drawing the remaining funds and to the fourth quarter of 2012.
We are working with the forward counterparties on the extension and expect to have it completed shortly.
Our previous financing plan included an additional equity offering of $150 million in 2012 while our updated plans postpone this issuance until 2013.
As a result our 2012 plan is lower than previously announced while our 2013 plan has increased.
We continued to evaluate our financing plan and develop strategies which align our debt and equity issuances with our cash needs for construction.
This isn’t a change in our overall strategy of financing the project 50/50 with debt and equity but rather simply an adjustment in the execution to match previously unexpected cash flows.
We’re very pleased with the flexibility the forward structure has offered us during this period.
In summary we are pleased with our quarterly results and confident in our guidance for both 2011 and 2012.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We will now be glad to respond to any questions you might have.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question will come from Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
Please go ahead.
Hi how are you doing? Good Paul.
Thanks for the presentation as always very thorough.
But just want to – I know you guys had the weather normalization clause but could you give us a flavor for what the weather-normalized growth has been absent industrial? Sure Paul.
The short of it is it’s been inconsistent much like the national and the local economy.
But in short to your question there for the quarter our residential weather-normalized growth is actually up slightly more than 1% and industrial is up similar amount about 1.25%.
The commercial is lagged behind still slightly below last year’s.
And I think initially we’ve talked in the past couple of calls about industrial leading the recovery we are certainly seeing that with the discussion that Kevin took you through a few minutes ago now it appears that some of this - at least in the short term has translated into residential consumption but we’ve yet to see it in commercial.
Okay.
And then could you just also just review about with respect to what’s your expectations are again going forward for retail sales growth? Yeah we’re – we expect growth of – as far as number of customers new customers of something slightly less than 1% in the electric business and in the gas businesses ranging from a similar amount in South Carolina to about 1.75% in North Carolina and that’s just numbers of customers.
As far as usage in North Carolina of course we have a cut mechanism that takes care of any change in usage related to efficiency et cetera and in the electric business we’re assuming a slightly lower customer usage just driven off of efficiency the CFL laws et cetera as it relate to 2012.
Okay.
So you if you see any change I guess – I guess it doesn’t seem – you guys are still pretty much holding to what your economic impact on retail sales is going to be going forward.
There really hasn’t been a change from what we’ve seen from I don’t know there has been some sort of discussion the slowdown perhaps happening in the economy going forward that perhaps I don’t know – in the last quarter or so people have been sort of projecting more but you are not necessarily feeling that at that point – at this point is that right? Well I think it’s fair to say that we’ve been more conservative about the forward expectations.
There is a little bright spot in this quarter as far as non weather related usage at the residential area and certainly continue to see growth in industrial just not ready to call that a trend yet.
Okay.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot for the update.
Sure.
And our next question will come from Steve Sanders of Stephens Inc.
Please go ahead.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Thanks for taking the questions.
First I think Steve you outlined kind of three options on related to the COL impact study.
Can you just talk a little bit more about kind of the gating factors or the decision drivers of the three options is it primarily financing is it personnel is it supply chain just maybe give us a little bit more color on those things?  Yeah sure.
First of all the supply chain really has not entered into the any of the gating factors.
We anticipate that irregardless of the decision we make we’re not going to take the pressure of the supply chain.
So our expectation is that all of the components that are being manufactured will continue on their current manufacturing schedule and we’ve got plenty of room onsite to store large components should they come in.
So that’s really not a consideration.
So really for us the considerations are the schedule and the cost implications of that schedule and then probably secondarily then is our desire to try to keep the trained workforce onsite actively engaged as long as we can and that’s why in the third scenario that we are looking at which is really a compression of the schedules.
We will allow the first new unit to be deferred for six months but we’ll bring the second new unit up earlier and that way we should avoid some of the demobilization/remobilization.
So we’ll keep that workforce more actively engaged and so the discussions we are having with the consortium now are how we value that versus how they value that and that’s with the negotiations.
Okay okay thanks.
That’s pretty helpful.
And then on the EPA slide I just wanted to clarify so the 80% of your coal generation that currently has the scrubbers or SCRs is that in compliance? In other words the finalization of this rule change anything over the next year or two in terms of your spending on the existing coal fleet? We don’t see the changing anything on the existing coal fleet relative to capital expenditures based on the rule.
Now the rule is also implemented in 2012 but I think it yet remains to be seen whether we’ll see full compliance request in 2012 or whether that would be deferred so they may delay the enforcement of the rule for some period of time which is not unusual from the EPA.
But in the short term we don’t see any impacts to our fleet and we believe that the scrubber and SCR technologies along with the back houses and/or electrostatic precipitators we have installed in those bigger units should put us in compliance for those units.
Okay thank you very much.
And our next question will come from Andrew Levi of Caris.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
Back on the COL study can you give us some type of idea I mean obviously we’re not sure obviously what it’s going to come out with and what road you’re going to go down but as we look at 12 or 13 or 14 and we’re looking at significant changes in expenses or cost or I mean ultimately in the BLRA and how that will play out as far as rate increases and things like that and can you give us some type of idea what we should be kind of looking at and whether it should be a concern of ours or whether it’s just more cosmetic in the changes that you will be making? Let me start off and then let Steven jump in if he’d like.
From our perspective first of all for 2012 we’ve been as I said a little broader in our guidance range than we normally would.
Our intention would be as these decisions are completed to tighten that range hopefully in our year end call in February when we know the results of this.
We feel like that range contemplates the variety of outcomes.
In my opinion this really has to do with recalibrating the full scale starting point once we give full notice to proceed to the vendor and not necessarily the whole process from here on out.
There will be some ripples I think throughout the following years but it really has to do with how much does it impact 2012 and of course our fiscal year is different than our BLRA typical filing years.
We typically make that filing in May or June.
Steve anything you’d like to add? I don’t anticipate any significant changes in the near term but as we get out into those outer years of 13 or 14 what it may do is impact whether it’s 2.5% or 2.7% increase in one year versus the next year.
I don’t think there’s going to be a big overall change in where we end up but in inter year there could be some movement of those rate increases under the Base Load Review Act.
While also our Base Load Review Act is predicated on milestones and we have a number of milestones that we report on quarterly in the quarterly update that we turn into our Public Service Commission.
And currently we don’t anticipate any changes to those milestones based on the negotiations going into on the COL delay study.
Okay that’s great.
‘13 and ’14 I understand just back to 2012 what type of there’s no better way to put it line items I mean where in the income statement or the CapEx or cash flow where would – kind of get and speak – where we would see some changes… Yeah.
How significant would they be? I mean I understand you have a $0.20 range in your revised guidance.
But a little bit of help there? Well there are several moving parts if there were a change in the construction cost in 2012 it would certainly impact the amount of CapEx and therefore the amount that needs to be financed and so therefore it could impact interest expense or dilution from equity issuances.
And also if there were less or more than we have currently in the CapEx plan it would potentially impact AFUDC or capitalized interest cost or carrying cost intra-BLRA increases and then ultimately the cash impact would in the amount that it would decrease or increase the projected BLRA filing that would be effective in November of 2012.
So those are the four so moving parts related to that.
We really – I understand you want a boundary but all we can – we can’t really respond to that because we haven’t quantified these different options that Steve outlined for you.
We are waiting on the consortium to get to back to us on that but we feel like at the outside those are all contemplated within this range.
And the consortium is going to get back to you when? We expect to have that study completed and the discussions by the end of the year.
But you want to talk to us about it until your first quarter call is that basically how is it going to play out? That would be the plan at this point.
Once we get that contemplated and also during that time we certainly hope we get a better feel for where we are on the COL and once we have all those pieces of the puzzle we’ll be prepared in February to give you a complete update on the timing if it involves any significant changes.
Great.
And just on the low end can you give us kind of any idea of what you are thinking there relative to this process? I’m not sure I understand your question I mean…? I mean the low end of your guidance I mean what assumptions have you made that incorporate this process? While on the low end of the guidance we’ve obviously around the base business we’ve been more pessimistic about the economy et cetera and in addition to that we’ve assumed that we spent X dollars less in the construction related to the nuclear plant but I really can’t get into defining a specific number in there for you because we don’t have the solutions defined by the consortium.
Okay I tried.
Thanks guys.
Appreciate it.
And our next question will come from Travis Miller of Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
Looking back at slide three with those new customers what kind of additional volume would those new customers represent? And looking also at that 1.25% increase how much of that was from those new customers? We typically don’t disclose the amount of usage from those customers.
They see it as fairly confidential and competitive but in aggregate all that’s been considered in our guidance and as Jimmy said we think that’s a great foundation for the opportunity to see the continued increase in residential and hopefully commercial down the line but we have not provided any specific output or usage expectations for those facilities.
If I backed out some of the new stuff from that one in the quarter is it fair to say that core or legacy industrial demand was roughly flat or is that being too aggressive contribution from these new customers? No.
Realize these are announcements that Kevin has covered so these aren’t in operation yet.
These are just third quarter economic development announcements.
What you see in the 1.25% growth in industrial is our legacy operating industrial accounts.
Okay great.
And then one other unrelated question the 800 megawatts of the uncontrolled coal that you still have how much of that is at risk of closing based on Casper and the proposed air toxic rule that we’ve seen? When we see the final impact of those rules and understand some of the rules that we’re dealing with the one you mentioned plus others are not completely identified or quantified yet.
Their implementation date isn’t certain.
But sufficed to say that we think that the EPA rules and regulations that are coming out will have an adverse impact on coal plant and in our latest Integrated Resource Plan that we file with the Commission we did contemplate some coal plan retirements.
Now we didn’t specify which plant but we do have some retirement specified.
Okay.
Did you have a megawatt capacity on that? We did for the number of megawatts in it and don’t have the – my fingertips so I’d be guessing but its a few hundred megawatts.
Okay.
I’ll go back and check that.
Thanks a lot.
And our next question will come from Erica Piserchia of Wunderlich Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hi just a quick follow-up question.
I know Andy exhausted a lot of the questions on the coal guidance but just can you give us – because it seems to me like the biggest maybe sensitively factor there is study which is still out there and I know you talked about that the usage do you have any kind of like sensitivity on an earnings per share basis to 10 basis point change in customer usage in the base business? Is that way to think about that?  Well you’re talking me on the coal business not to do with nuclear.
On the electric side of the business if usage varied 0.5% it would make roughly $0.03 per share of change in the earnings per share.
Okay thanks.
And then what allowed return or is your – your current allowed return embedded in that guidance range somewhere? No the allowed returns are back on the slide four which is 10.7 for the electric business at SCE&amp;G and 10.25 for SCE&amp;G gas and 10.6 at PSNC in North Carolina.
The gas piece as I discussed we have made a filing for an increase under our Rate Stabilization Act and we believe one that’s effective later this year that that will push us back towards 10.25 on the gas business.
We remain below the 10.7% on the electric side.
I will tell you that we have not contemplated any potential increase in electric rates end of 2012 guidance so there is nothing added in there for potential increase in revenues.
We are watching the economic conditions to see what the recovery does and we’ll certainly pay attention to that and – works that in more detail in 2012.
We did have a moratorium that we received from the commission on our last increase last year and that would keep us from increasing rates until July 2012.
But if you back and look at what we’ve done in history it’s been about two to three years between regular core increases depending on what the economy is doing.
Okay.
Kevin you touched on my third question which was any updated thoughts on rate cares? So – and then I guess just one last thing on the NRC’s process and – been trying to kind to follow the DCD what’s your understanding of the time frame or the rough timeframe that the NRC is expecting in terms of ruling on the DCD? I think that the – if we talk about the Westinghouse AP 1000 DCD in Revision 19 the last revision the proposed rule went to the Commission I think it was last week so that’s the staff has basically finished their work and have sent it up to the Commissioner themselves.
According to their internal guidelines they’ve got four weeks to confirm the rule so we anticipate that could be within the next couple of weeks.
Okay thank you.
And our next question will come from Jonathan Reader of Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Couple of questions I guess that haven’t been asked yet.
One is just kind of a clarification so if you get the COL in the timeframe you are expecting around year end you are still going to implement one of those three options under the study? It would be our anticipation that we wrap up the negotiations with the consortium on the options by year’s end and if we get the COL by year’s end to position ourselves to start the nuclear construction right away.
But would you have to implement one of those three options if you get the COL by year end still? We would have to implement one of three options but the early part of – of all three options is the same.
Okay.
Once we start with basement for the first big secure concrete for mud mat vapor barrier (reblockage) that’s all the same for any of the options.
Okay.
And then Kevin can you quantify what the EPS contribution is from the polar obligation in Georgia does that really pull anything to the bottom line? Jonathan this is Jimmy.
Let me respond to that.
There is an impact to the bottom line.
And I hope you appreciate this but this is in a bid process now and for competitive reasons I don’t want to disclose that to all of our competitive bidders with any information in that bid process that they don’t already have.
Let me just say to you that we’ve – that’s also contemplated in this guidance range and it’s not material.
Okay.
And then a last question I think Jimmy you said that 2012 you’re not assuming any industrial growth.
Is that accurate? Well we’re assuming industrial growth based on what’s announced to-date.
So everything that Kevin covered with you earlier on the slide based on their planned implementations of these facilities and their planned usage we have built that into our plan.
But we have not assumed yet unannounced industrial expansion that we – that may be in the pipeline.
Okay makes sense.
Thanks.
Yep.
And our next question will come from Jim von Riesemann of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Hey Jim.
Hello.
How are you guys doing? Great.
Great.
I am a little tired because this is fourth call.
So I’m going to beat a dead horse to death if you guys don’t mind.
So it looks to me 2011 is probably going to come in above your internal target number barring anything else right? So you have that.
What takes this down to the low end of the 2012 range exactly to get to 305 so you would have like earnings decline? I’m just missing that? Yeah it really would come back primarily to this discussion around the different options and again… Okay.
We’ve given ourselves a little liberty there because we can’t define it completely.
Yeah okay.
So that’s why your internal target for ‘12 is above the midpoint you’ve given yourselves such a low end just in case? Just in case.
Got it.
That was easy enough.
The COL is issued at the end of the year.
Let’s just assume that’s done everything has signed sealed and delivered.
What’s keeping you and Steve and everybody up in night now because you’ve got from where we get the thing license to like – now we got to sell the bigger construction project on our hands? Well getting ready for the construction keeps me and my folks up in my… Right.
We got a lot of work to do preparation wise.
Beyond that I think the outcomes from Fukushima… Yeah.
Now the 81 000 units were really designed to handle the kind of station blackout that they had over the Fukushima.
So that’s one reason I think why the NRC in their internal review they put out about 90 days afterwards said that they would support their continued licensing of two designs and the 81 000 as one as of those designs.
So we’re hardened by that.
I do think that the 81 000 design will handle Fukushima type of issues.
But that being said it could be we get.
Some impact from a Fukushima-related issue I don’t think that that will delay licensing and all and again I think the plan is a solid plan.
So whatever they come up well that would be applicable to the entire fleet in the United States would also be applicable to our new units.
I think if you guys once you get that fuel oil we don’t like to come down and have another meeting on side of – if you guys don’t mind that I’m just throwing that out there.
The last thing is; the Wall Street Journal has been running a lot of stories about South Carolina and labor laws and everything else.
Can you just touch a little bit on that what that might mean for industrial growth and industrial production down there? I think it centers around Boeing? Well I certainly think people are coming to South Carolina for a reason.
We got a very positive industrial climate.
We have labor supplies and traditionally South Carolina was right to work state.
I think we’re less than 5% unionized in the state.
Right.
And these are people looking at us.
Certainly the issue that’s gotten a lot of attention is the Boeing situation where they’ve got their plant contemplated not just contemplated but up and running and they got plants moving through the facility at this point and I believe the first plants do out of there early next year.
So there are big issues there.
I certainly can’t give the little aspect of their case.
But generally the complaints are centered around whether or not they unduly penalize the unions in Washington by expanding the plant down here.
But it’s my understanding that the union workforce was not reduced in Washington.
I think it was slightly increased and this was addition to their facilities not just a movement of the existing line from there – from operations out there.
So there’ll be a lot of debate about that.
I am sure it’ll go through the legal process.
But the reality is we got a plant down here.
There has been a tremendous impact of a state.
Thousands of people have found employment.
I think there’ll other companies that come in around to support their operations.
And personally I think it’d be difficult to try to shut it down and send all those people home which I believe is what – I believe more to have happened.
But I won’t – somehow as well take place but that’s really the challenge at hand and what we have got as a plant it is working well and employing a lot of people in a state that’s go ahead to have them and others are coming to join them.
Okay.
Kevin that was really helpful because some of these articles are a little – they’ve got their own agenda.
The last question is quite simple.
You’ve gotten actual ROE at SCE&amp; of 8.6 your allowed is 10.7.
If you get – if you close that 200 basis point GAAP what does that do to the earnings power of the company? Well certainly it would boost us but not change the guidance for next year because we’ve not contemplated anything that might impact next year.
We’ve got the moratorium as I said earlier this takes us through July 2012.
Any filing that we might make would not be effective until six months after we made that request to the commission.
But certainly it will be an upside.
What we are watching carefully is seeing what happens with the economy.
If we can sustain some of the growth we are certainly interested in average customer usage that number is amassed around as we talk about in several meetings this year.
All those are of interest to us and we’ll watch that as we try to make a decision as to whether or not we make a decision to file a case.
Okay.
Well is it out of the realm of reasonable miss that you could be close to earning your allowed ROE in say 2013? I think that would contemplate what the economy does and if we have a filing on top of that certainly if we return to the growth levels we saw in previous years it would move us in a good piece towards that direction.
Got it.
Okay just wanted to make sure.
Thanks.
Thanks.
And our next question will come from David (indiscernible) of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Hello David.
Just I had a couple of questions on 2012 but before that just simply a question why did you give next year’s guidance today rather than on your Q4 call as you did last year? Well interesting question that’s typically been our process and our style as to give that at the end of the third quarter is just with since the recession we’ve not felt like we had our hands around it because it’s been inconsistent.
We’ve not felt like we had our hands around the range well enough to do it.
So we wanted most information possible.
We are getting to the point now where we feel like we got more reliability around our projections we’ve got more insight into them because of the electric weather normalization adjustment and we’re not trying to separate the art from the science as far as what is real customer growth and consumption looking like and we’re just more confident.
Okay great.
Specifically on 2012 what’s the amount of the cash tax savings that you expect? Can you break that out by D&amp;A – it’s only D&amp;A impact or any other items? It’s about $200 million in total but that really spanned a two to three year period I believe the benefit in 2012 was something less than $100 million maybe be less than $75 million but it really is kind of a cumulative impact of that benefit over over several years.
In fact if you look at our – look at our financial statements you will see that we’ve really – we’re starting to turn that now we are starting to pay current income taxes so most of that benefit is behind us but there is a small amount next year.
And majority of that was at the electric segment is that fair to say? Yes absolutely.
Okay so based on that how much rate base growth you see at the electric segment E&amp;G excluding of course the nuclear project off of your let’s just take your year in 2010 rate base I think of $4.8 billion.
What would you envision the rate base growth in the next – through 2014? Yeah.
David I don’t have an objective number in front of me on that.
Obviously the nuclear is going to overshadow it that clip.
But I will tell you that generally the way we pull back on CapEx to equalize the economy that it has been fairly close maybe outpacing depreciation and amortization maybe $100 million or so but I don’t’ have a specific number in front of me.
Okay great.
Thank you so much.
Sure.
And our next question will come from Chris Ellinghaus of Williams Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Hello.
Just a – just a follow up on the industrial question can you give us a little flavor for what’s going on with volume? I mean in terms of their operations there they’re up and running.
They are taking energy from us.
They are building planes and we are excited.
We are just about ready to complete the solar panel installation or the solar laminate we put on top of their 10 acre roof which is going to produce about 2.6 megawatts of energy.
But there are in full operation and are working to keep it at that direction I don’t think they plan on letting up.
Did they suffer any material delays due to the politics locally? Not that I’m aware of.
In my conversations with the billing officials they have told us consistently that they have been overwhelmed by the support they’ve had in the state from all the other industry connections as well as all the regulatory and legislative support they needed has been very strong.
Okay.
And related to the potential for a rate case does your guidance or I guess not in the guidance but is your internal plan assuming that you’ll file once the moratorium is complete? We have not made that decision.
I’ve just said earlier that we don’t have anything in the 2012 guidance.
We’ll wait and see what happens between now and the first half of next year to make a decision but whether or not we need to file or anticipate the need for rate relief.
Okay.
One more thing Jimmy can you give us any flavor for what D&amp;A looks like for next year? Yeah I really don’t have that in front of me I apologize.
But its – I would say just based on what we are putting into CapEx etcetera that it would be fairly consistent with 2011.
Okay great.
Thanks so much.
Sure.
And our next question will come from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys congrats on a good quarter.
One question first of all what are you expecting out of earnings outside of SCANA Energy and SCE&amp;G and PSNC in your 2012 guidance meaning holding company costs as well as the small gas transmission business? Consistent with 2011.
Got it okay.
Second do you anticipate issuing any further – you’ve got a maturity at the holding company level in February.
You just going to refi that at the hold co.
you’re going to replace that at the operating company how should we just thinking about kind of the puts and takes on the cap structure at the holding company level? Again consistent.
There is a slide back there slide 15 we are just going to simply refi that right where it is today.
Got it.
Last question we talked about this a while ago when not long after Fukushima the contractors meaning Westinghouse and Shaw filed a force majeure I think related to Summer just curious if there is an update on that where that stands how that process plays out from here as well? Yeah.
They did that as – I would say a routine course of business whenever they have something that goes on anywhere around the world that could impact their deliveries units they give us one of those type letters.
Many of which they end up with sending.
The supply chain in Japan there were really two vendors in Japan that could have been affected one was IHI which is a large manufacturer that’s supplying plate steel for us and the other one was Toshiba and Toshiba is delivering the turbine condenser really quite a large number of units.
Toshiba largely have not started their work yet IHI had actually delivered us plate steel in December.
We got word from both of the vendors that our components that were on site were undamaged.
For example we had some plate steel onsite at IHI but they were prepping to send us for the ring segment of the containment vessel.
That was undamaged and that their facilities were largely undamaged.
They did have some minor things that they had to correct.
Their bigger issue was with the rolling blackouts most of the vendors were in the Tokyo area.
They have learned to deal with rolling blackouts now and they are in full production as we understand it and we anticipate no delays from the earthquake impacts in Japan.
Meaning that they are on-time and on schedule for the containment vessel and – what is it I think the turbine generator? Yeah turbine generator auxiliary is condenser – yeah they are schedule for all that.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Much appreciated.
You’re welcome.
And our next question will come from Dan Jenkins of Wisconsin Investment Board.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
Hi Dan.
Just kind of on the same topic on the nuclear plant construction and particularly when we look at your slide I think 14 where you have the CapEx the new nuclear CapEx laid out would the 2012 CapEx be impacted much by these various pass that you’re exploring now – or – I know what – you made one comment that a lot of the work would be the same at the beginning but I was just curious how variable that 2012 CapEx that you might be depending on that? Yeah.
And again it’s unqualified since our negotiations and discussions with the consortium.
We’re not yet complete.
There probably would be an impact on CapEx through I don’t think this is significant impact.
Because as I pointed out earlier the first let’s say six to eight months of work in the excavation that we’re now allowed to do once we receive the COL would be the same under any of the scenarios.
There may be some more work done outside of the excavation under the first scenario where we try to keep the commercial operation take the same.
But we will have a significant amount of work going on really irregardless of which of those scenarios we chose.
For example we are going to be assembling modules from subcomponents that come in to decide in a very large building.
That work will continue that’s probably almost years worth of work on the two largest modules.
We will continue to assemble the lower bowl assembly for the containment vessel and then the rings once we get the plate steel in for the rings that work it really will continue irregardless as to which of the options we chose.
And then we got some other things to decide that we’re trying to complete water intake water outfall cooling tower work that work will all continue and we’re trying to build a water treatment facility that eventually will supply our existing and the two new units and that work will continue.
So we got a significant amount of work to do in 2012 really irregardless of the scenario we pick.
Okay.
And then just for ‘12 ‘13 ‘14 since that’s kind of what you laid out if there are any changes to that new nuclear CapEx based on the plants would pretty much be an equal change to the financing related to that on slide 15? Is that the way to think about that or is it? Yeah in theory now there might be some practical implications to that I mean if we were to increase $130 million do we necessarily increase the debt and the equity $15 million each I mean within some parameters I absolutely agree with your comment it’s just there is some practical implications to that too.
Right.
In other words we might just use our short-term financing methods as we intend to bridge some of the peaks and valleys and do more economic financing at the debt and equity level.
Okay thanks.
And kind of the last area I wanted to get into a little bit was in the industrial sales first of all just that the gas industrial was down whereas electrical industrial was up is there something going on like between customer classes that would explain that or is this just… Interesting question Dan.
That’s really that’s what I asked myself a few days ago the staff and the answer to that is it doesn’t have to do with our core retail gas industrial customers.
That has to do with our gas sales through our marketing company principally to other electric generators not on our system and the weather this third quarter was milder although still above normal milder than the extremely hot summer in the third quarter of 2010 and so they were running their gas generation less.
And so we sold less industrial gas to those – to those folks for electric generation purpose but it doesn’t relate to our direct serve industrial customers of our system.
Okay.
And then the last question in that area is have you seen any change in industrial demand and as the quarter progressed then into October given the market volatility and kind of the consumer confidence has come down have you seen any pull back on industrial demand in your service area over the period? Well I can’t comment really on October I don’t have anything or any details on that with me.
But I can tell you through September the real bright spot in this to me as I analyzed it was that we’ve seen increases in all of our larger categories in order of significance to us at least in aggregate chemicals paper steel and rubber all four of those have increased as well as obviously aerospace now with Boeing’s ramping up full speed.
So it’s not any one general area it has really been a good portfolio.
Okay thank you.
Yeah one another thing I might add is that there was a comment here in the local press this week – after the last week after the most recent announcement of Continental Tire over in Sumter that followed on the heels of the Bridgestone that Kevin mentioned earlier and of course we got a lot of Michelin manufacturing facilities already in the territory and the projection is that once all these plans come online that South Carolina will produce more rubber products than does Akron in Ohio the previous rubber capital of the country.
Okay thanks.
Sure.
And our next question will come from Ashar Khan of Visium.
Please go ahead.
Hi Jimmy.
Sorry entered late on the call.
I just wanted to go over if I’m right Jimmy on the slides that you presented in the conference in the summer you had talked about additional equity of about $115 million in ’12.
Is that out of the boat now or where does that stand can I ask? Yeah we did cover that earlier but would be glad to refresh that if you can look on slide 15 of the slides for today.
If you don’t have those now you can access them later.
We do not expect to have to issue that follow-on equity offering in 2012 driven by the cash generated from our tax strategies both….
Okay.
Deprecation and the change in our expensing of repairs for tax purposes.
Okay I apologize.
So does that mean that’s gone out of the system totally right.
That is the way we should look at it right? It’s not like deferred to 13 or later on right so it’s like total gone out of the system and a boost for earnings is that correct? It’s a boost for earnings in the short term because there is no dilution.
But if you find that slide 15 you’ll see where it really does most of it comes back in ‘13 and the balance comes back in ‘14 so it’s a shift of the timing.
It’s a shift of the timing? So okay.
Okay I apologize.
So you’re still expecting the 150 additional to be done in ‘13 and ‘14 rather than in ‘12? That’s right.
Okay okay.
Okay thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
And finally we have a follow-up question from Andrew Levi of Caris.
Please go ahead.
I’m off that.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I am showing no further questions in the queue.
I would like to end the question-and-answer session and turn the conference back over to Mr.
Jimmy Addison for closing comments.
Well thank you.
And to summarize we’re very pleased with our third quarter results.
Despite the challenging economy we continue to demonstrate growth in our earnings and in our customer base.
Our service territory continues to exhibit significant industrial expansion and our nuclear project continues to move forward on schedule and budget.
I want to close today by recognizing the visionary leadership Bill has offered both our company and me personally over his career.
Bill has made us all better significantly better and for that as a member of the management team and as a shareholder I’m very grateful.
We’re excited about our future but also thankful and proud of our past.
Thanks Bill and thank you all for joining us today and for your interest in SCANA.
And that will conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for joining us.
You may disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
My name is Denise and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Wednesday February 15 2012.
Anyone who does not consent to the taping may drop off the line.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Byron Hinson Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Thank you.
I’d like to welcome everyone to our earnings conference call including those who are joining us on the webcast.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the fourth quarter and full-year of 2011.
Joining us on the call today are Jimmy Addison SCANA’s Chief Financial Officer and Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer of SCE&amp;G.
The slides and the earnings release that we’ll refer to in this call are available at scana.com.
Before I turn the call over to Jimmy I would like to remind you that certain statements that may be made during today’s call which are not statements of historical facts are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risk and uncertainties which are shown on slide two and discussed in the company’s SEC filings.
The company does not recognize obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Finally as noted on slide two we may disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation and the required Reg G information can be found in the slides used in conjunction with this earnings call.
I’ll now turn the call over to Jimmy.
Thanks Byron and thank you all for joining us today.
During today’s call we will discuss our financial results for the fourth quarter and the full-year of 2011 and provide an update on our outlook for 2012.
Additionally Steve will provide an update on our nuclear project.
Let’s start on Slide 3 which reflects SCANA’s 2011 full-year basic earnings per share of 3.01 compared to $2.99 per share in 2010.
Increases in electric margin from rate increases under the Base Load Review Act and lower operating and maintenance expenses were partially offset by lower gas margins higher interest property tax and depreciation expense and share dilution.
Our results were within our 2011 guidance of 2.95 to 3.10 per share and only $0.01 below our internal target of 3.02.
The mild weather in Georgia cost us approximately $0.01 in December.
I’ll remind you that 2010 includes $0.07 of weather prior to the implementation of electric weather normalization resulting in weather normalized earnings of $2.92.
You can reference the appendix on Slide 18 for a reconciliation from GAAP to weather normalized earnings.
Slide 4 shows the basic earnings in the fourth quarter of 2011 were $0.76 per share compared to $0.74 per share in the same quarter of 2010.
While operation and maintenance expenses were lower in the current quarter those benefits were offset by the anticipated cost of our capital program higher interest property tax and depreciation expense along with related share dilution.
Now on Slide 5 I’d like to review results for our principal lines of business.
South Carolina Electric and Gas Company’s full-year 2011 earnings denoted in blue were up $0.04 compared to 2010.
Improved margins from increases under the Base Load Review Act offset the increased capital related cost.
For the fourth quarter SCE&amp;G earnings were $0.02 lower than the same period last year reflecting the aforementioned increased capital related cost.
PSNC Energy’s earnings for 2011 shown in red were $0.37 per share compared to $0.36 per share in 2010.
Fourth quarter 2011 earnings were flat over the same period in 2010.
Increases in customer growth along with lower operating and maintenance expenses were partially offset by higher depreciation and property tax expense.
SCANA Energy in green reported lower earnings for the full year 2011 due principally to milder weather.
I’m pleased to report that SCANA Energy has again been selected to serve as the regulated provider for the state for the upcoming two-year term covering September 2012 through August 2014.
SCANA Energy has served as a regulated provider since the program’s inception in 2002.
SCANA’s corporate and other businesses reported a 2011 loss for the year of $0.01 per share and earnings for the quarter of $0.01 per share compared to losses of $0.03 and $0.02 per share respectively for 2010.
The improvement is due to improved results in our communications business during 2011.
Slide 6 shows customer growth at our major subsidiaries.
We experienced customer growth in our North and South Carolina regulated business while Georgia while the Georgia market saw a decrease in customer count over the prior year.
We are pleased that our regulated businesses continue to yield organic growth.
The reduction in Georgia is due to a loss of customers in our Regulated Provider program which was partially offset by increased customer count in our deregulated sector.
Several marketers now have offerings such as a prepay service as an alternative to the regulated provider structure.
Additionally our analysis also shows that customers have been slower to connect their gas service this winter due to the unseasonably mild temperatures.
Our Electric and Gas sales statistics can be found in the press release we filed earlier today and are available on our website.
On our weather normalize basis electric residential sales are up approximately 1%.
Industrial sales also saw improvement with an increase of a little more than 1%.
Commercial sales continued to lag behind last year with a decrease of approximately 2% when weather normalized.
As we’ve mentioned previously industrial growth typically leads followed by residential and then commercial.
So it appears that some of the industrial activity in our area over the last couple of years has translated into residential consumption but we’ve yet to see that in the commercial sector.
These results were anticipated in our 2011 plan and we’ve forecast similar patterns in 2012.
While we continue to see customer growth we expect that customer usage will be slightly lower in 2012 as a result of demand side management programs new lightbulb standards that are being phased in more energy efficient air conditioners and general conservation.
For the year retail sales of natural gas were lower by 1.6% because of milder weather.
The residential and commercial sectors were down approximately 18% and 9% respectively while industrial sales which are not significantly impacted by weather increased more than 7%.
Of course weather is contemplated in our rate mechanisms in both regulated jurisdictions so there is no margin impact in the residential and commercial sectors.
Fourth quarter brought more industrial announcements in our service territory.
On Slide 7 you can see a update of economic expansion plans in South Carolina.
During the fourth quarter alone announced investment exceeded $500 million with the largest coming from a pharmaceutical company that will be located near our corporate campus here in Central South Carolina.
These announcements during the quarter suggest the ultimate creation of over 1 900 additional jobs.
For the full year total announced investment was over $3.2 billion and more than 7 700 expected jobs.
This was the best year for industrial economic announcements in South Carolina in the last decade.
Unemployment continued to show improvement in the areas we serve.
As you can see on Slide 8 we continue to see improvement at the national state and local level.
At December 31 the unemployment rate in South Carolina was the lowest since 2008 and is now lower than that of North Carolina and Georgia as a surge of economic development activities begin to take hold.
Our service territory of South Carolina is heavily concentrated in the Charleston and Columbia Metro areas where unemployment is lower than the national average as denoted in the green box.
Please turn to Slide 9 which sets forth our regulated returns in South Carolina regulatory calendar for 2012.
The chart at the top shows the earned returns as of September 30 the date of our most recent filings.
Our Electric operations earned 8.74% a slight improvement over our June filing due to margin improvement and cost containment.
This figure is exclusive of any new nuclear equip or associated rate increases as those amounts are handled separately under the Base Load Review Act and earned an 11% ROE.
As noted on the second line we have $1.1 billion of new nuclear equip currently in rates.
This amount covers spending through June 2011.
Subsequent to June we incurred incremental quip of $156 million that will be considered in our next revised rates filing later this year.
Many of you have asked if we expect to follow the base electric case in the near-term.
While we have not made a decision of when we would file our next case we typically file on a two-to-three year cycle.
One of the stipulations from our last case was that we could not have another increase in base rates for 24 months or until after the middle of 2012.
As we have mentioned previously our 2012 guidance does not include additional revenue from a base rate increase.
We recognize the importance of earning our allowed return and we will evaluate our position regularly.
As of September 30 our Gas Business at SCE&amp;G was earning approximately 9.5% after annualizing the impact from the most recent $8.5 million rate increase under the Rate Stabilization Act effective in November.
Our North Carolina Gas Business continues to perform well and is earning it’s allowed return principally due to the growth in the business and cost control.
The bottom of the slide includes two time lines depicting our regulatory filings schedule for 2012.
Consistent with prior years we anticipate making our annual gas RSA filing in June and our annual nuclear BLRA revised rate application in May.
Yesterday we filed our most recent BLRA status report with the Commission and Office of Regulatory Staff for the fourth quarter.
Steve will address the project fully in a few minutes.
Slide 10 presents our CapEx forecast.
This forecast assumes receipt of our COL in early 2012 and incorporates new nuclear spending as reported in our latest BLRA filing.
We have also provided a preliminary estimate of additional owner’s cost related to our nuclear project which Steve will discuss.
As you can see new nuclear spending accounts for more than half of our projected CapEx over the next three years.
Please turn to Slide 11.
This slide presents our estimated financing plan through 2014.
In January we completed two of our three planned debt offerings for the year.
We issued $250 million in medium term notes at SCANA for a refinancing and $250 million of first mortgage bonds at SCE&amp;G to fund CapEx.
We were pleased with the market’s reception to these offerings with substantial over subscriptions and historically low interest rates and we remain confident in our ability to raise the funds necessary to complete construction of our nuclear project from public sources.
We expect an additional issuance of approximately $200 million at SCE&amp;G later in the year.
We continue to anticipate to draw the remaining funds from our equity floor during the fourth quarter of 2012.
From the beginning our strategy has been to finance our nuclear project from public sources with 50% debt and 50% equity and nothing has changed.
I would also like to touch briefly on our pension assets.
I’m pleased to report that our pension plan is adequately funded.
We have not had to make a cash contribution to the plan since 1997 and do not anticipate any until at least 2013.
Our plan was recognized as one of the best funded among our peers in a recent study by UBS.
Now I would like to discuss our 2012 earnings guidance and related assumptions as shown on slide 12.
We reaffirm our 2012 guidance of $3.05 to $3.25 per share with an internal target of $3.17 and our long-term outlook to deliver 3 to 5% earnings growth over the three-to-five year period based on the 2010 weather normalize base of $2.92 per share.
We are pleased that our 2011 earnings per share of $3.01 were within – were in line with our guidance and essentially at our announced target of $3.02.
I want to point out that our guidance is based on basic earnings per share.
As you have probably noticed we focus on basic earnings in our discussions with you.
In May of 2011 we entered in to an equity forward contract.
And to comply with accounting requirements we present basic and diluted earnings in our financial statements.
Basic earnings per share reflect the shares we’ve actually issued during the year.
In contrast diluted earnings per share include the effect of theoretical shares that would have been outstanding if we had issued the shares under the forward contracts which we didn’t.
If our stock price stays above the contract forward price we expect similar amounts of potential dilution through the fourth quarter of 2012 when we anticipate drawing the remaining funds under the forward.
At that time those shares will begin to affect our basic earnings and are considered in our forecasted share price count and earnings guidance.
The diluted commutation is required but is a little consequent in this particular situation as the shares were not issued and can only dilute earnings when issued.
We continue to forecast 2012 residential customer growth to be in line with 2011 while we believe average customer usage will be slightly lower as a result of continued efficiency efforts.
We plan to keep O&amp;M expenses relatively flat over 2011 with modest growth in CapEx-related cost of property taxes depreciation interest and share dilution.
We anticipate weather normalized earnings from our Georgia business will be in the range of $0.22 to $0.24 per share.
Our effective tax rate for 2011 was 30.28% and we estimate the rate for 2012 will be approximately 31%.
Additionally we have included the impact of base rate increases from our new nuclear filings under the BLRA and the 2011 gas RSA filing as well as the effects of additional cash flow from our tax strategies.
These tax strategies will enable us to delay drawing the remainder of our equity forward until the fourth quarter of 2012 and should postpone a supplemental equity offering until 2013 thus minimizing the effects of dilution.
I’d now like to turn the call over to Steve to provide a update on our nuclear project.
Thanks Jimmy.
I would now like to direct your attention to Slide 13.
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission licensing proceedings continue to progress towards a successful conclusion.
At the end of the third quarter we needed a completion of three items in order for the commission to be able to approve our COL.
The first was completion of a mandatory hearing before the Nuclear Regulatory Commission commissioners.
This was completed in October.
The hearing was uncontested and we believe went well.
We also needed a 401 Water Quality permit and this was received in December.
Finally we needed the NRC’s approval of the AP1000 certified design.
As you can see in the green section of the chart the NRC has approved the AP1000 certified design.
This approval came on December 22 and the rule was published in the federal register on December 30.
The rule became effective immediately upon it being published in the federal register.
At this point there are not any remaining steps for us to take in order to receive our license.
We were pleased to see the commissions recent affirmation vote to issue southern companies COL.
We believe the commission will follow the same process in regards to our license.
After the session the license will be signed and we can proceed with full nuclear construction.
We continue to have confidence that our license will be issued early this year.
Please turn now to Slide 14 which gives you an overview of some of the activity that is underway at the site.
Construction of the heavy lift derrick continues and the attachment of the boom and the back mass to the carriage has been completed.
Our control room simulators are being installed and welding of the containment vessel lower bowl continues to progress well.
Construction of the cooling towers continues to move forward as plan; we continue to make progress on construction of the switchyard as you can see by the picture at the bottom of the slide.
The switchyard is scheduled to be energized in March of 2013 which fully supports the nuclear project schedule.
On Slide 15 you can see an aerial shot of the site from late 2011 which highlights several of the items I discussed.
As Jimmy mentioned early we filed our quarterly status report with the South Carolina Public Service Commission yesterday.
This report provided an overview of our project and a discussion of project cost.
Construction work on the site is proceeding safely and efficiently.
The project has met the goal of completing the work necessary to allow the first nuclear safety-related construction to commence onsite when the COL is issued.
The project has compiled a safety record that is unprecedented for a heavy construction site of its size totalling well over 5 million safe work hours with only two lost-time instances since construction began over three years ago.
In the quarterly BLRA filing we also discussed additional costs that are included in our current estimates which are described at the top of Slide 16.
These cost include increased cost being passed on to SCE&amp;G by Shawn Westinghouse as a result of the new Federal Healthcare Laws increased cost for cyber security regulation incremental cost associated with the design modifications of the water discharge system and additional forecasted transmission costs.
In addition to these cost currently reflected in the recent BLRA filing we anticipate an increase in perspective owner’s cost of approximately $150 million related to accelerated hiring and training of staff along with the cost of facilities equipment and information technology to support the nuclear units and associated personnel.
A portion of these cost expected in 2012 through 2014 was included as a line item on the CapEx forecast Jimmy discussed previously.
It is important to note that these cost are preliminary and may change as we refine the estimates by year and cost category.
In the coming months we plan to make a updated cost filing with the public service commission to include these cost in our budget.
As you might recall this filing’s necessary due to the decision by the South Carolina Supreme Court in 2010 which found that previously-approved general contingency cost could not be included in the forecasts approved for the Basic Review Act.
Instead as the proposed use of contingency funds is identified and itemized to specific cost categories we must file with the PSC for approval.
I would now like to talk about the COL delay study.
When we signed our EPC contract in 2008 it was anticipated that the COL would be issued by the NRC in July of 2011 due primarily to delays in approval of Revision 19 to the certified design it should now be issued early this year.
As we have previously discussed in 2011 we asked Shaw and Westinghouse to perform a COL delay impact study which would provide various cost and timing alternatives arising from this delay in issuance of the COL.
The first scenario compresses the construction schedule for Unit 2 the first new unit to retain the original commercial operation date set forth in the EPC contract.
The second scenario pushes out commercial operation date for Unit 2 to account for the COL delay while maintaining the commercial operation date for Unit 3 unchanged.
The third scenario considers delaying the commercial operation date of Unit 2 and accelerating the date for Unit 3 in order to take advantage of economies and efficiencies in the construction schedule.
While negotiations are not complete we have indicated to the consortium that we intend to pursue scenario three.
Included in negotiations of the COL delay study are all the commercial issues currently on the table.
As mentioned in our February 14 BLRA filing the consortium has asserted the right to addition cost to recovery under the EPC contract for cost associated with design modifications to the shield building and structural modules delay in NRC licensing and unanticipated rock conditions.
We have not accepted the volatility of those claims.
While the parties have not reached an agreement the upper bond of our portion of the claims is estimated to be approximately $188 million valued in 2007 dollars.
These cost have not been billed to the project.
We are still hopeful these claims will be resolved through negotiations.
We know that you are interested in the results of our negotiations and we will certainly communicate that information to you once it is available.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We will now be glad to respond to any questions you might have.
(Operator instructions).
And our first question will come from David Paus of Bank of America/Merrill Lynch please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Hello Dave.
I just have a few questions on ’11 but actually before that I may have missed this but in your 2012 guidance what range are you assuming for the earned ROE at SCE&amp;G Electric excluding new nuc?  Well we haven’t published an assumed ROE there but what I did say in my comments earlier is that you know we’ve got moratorium on any new rate cases until the middle of the year and we’ve not included any new revenue in our earnings guidance for 2012.
So our current most recent published return on the non-nuc is about 8 ¾.
Okay got it.
All right and just on 2011 in the 246 that you earned at SCE&amp;G how much of that is related to your return on your nuclear investments?  Oh David I don’t really have it analyzed that way because you would have to consider of course accumulative BLRA increases less the associated debt and equity cost of carrying those increases.
I really haven’t analyzed it that way.
But it will certainly build over the next few years but it’s not a huge amount at this point.
Okay is it fair to say if I just took your average QUIP and I think you’re allowed a 53% equity and 11% return that should be roughly your earnings from nuclear project?  Yes that’s fair.
Okay.
And just on the – I know it’s only a penny on the pair and another segment but I know there is some offsetting items in there could you just give us some color on how that penny breaks out on the CGTC Energy marketing?  I know you mentioned communications was a huge driver in the last year I believe a lot of that would be offset by I guess just interest at the hold COL level Is it – can you kind of just break those out break that penny out?  And then…  Yes we… What do you expect going forward?  Yes I think what you saw this year is a reasonable expectation.
We kind of you know we made improvement on it this year.
I expect us to be able to whittle away on that from a net basis and the reason for that being the debt that we renewed is at or below the existing costs of a debt that is being replaced.
We really don’t have any more debt refinancing subdued for the next eight or nine years at the hold COL.
So really it’s going to come down to what kind of growth do we see in those smaller subsidiaries and we haven’t in the past broken out the detailed numbers in those subs but I think they will – I think it’s reasonable to see that they will grow at least at the level that the major part of the business does.
So I’d expect us to continue to be able to mitigate that interest cost at the holding company through the earnings of other small subs.
<br>Got it okay.
And just on your new – last question on – I may have missed this too but just when do you expect to make that updated filing that you refer to in your quarterly filing last night?  And then I guess if you said when do you expect the unit two completion date or substantial completion date to be?  Are we talking months are we talking – what’s the – what kind of color can you give us there?  Yes relative to the completion date for the first new unit which for us is unit two we’re looking to accommodate the delay in receiving the license.
So what we’ve been talking about with our consortium partners is roughly a six-month delay so we are looking at late ‘16 as opposed to what April of ’16 which was the originally BC contract date.
<br>Thank you so much.
And our next question will come from Jim von Riesemann of UBS please go ahead.
Hi guys how are you?  Good Jim.
Hey just a follow up on that last question so you Unit Two would come on line at the end of 2016 and under scenario three when would Unit Three come on now?  Well we’re still working out what is the optimum what we’re trying to avoid here is demobilization and remobilization costs and when we had originally picked the split between those units it really was not what the contractor or the vendors would have ideally liked.
So what we’ve asked them for is what is that ideal split between the units that will save us money and we think it’s going to come in to be accelerating unit number three by less than a year but probably somewhere in the 10 11 month range.
<br> Okay super.
And then I guess the second question is on – you know I’ve been following on the NRC website closely and I haven’t seen an affirmation meeting posted.
Do you know what the rules are on about how much notice they have to give on that; like 24 hours 72 hours a week or what have you?  Yes the short answer is I don’t know what all the rules are; in general for an affirmation hearing they would give seven day notice which would be today.
Okay.
But here are circumstances under which they could give less than a seven day notice.
So for their next meeting on the 22<sup>nd</sup> the 15<sup>th</sup> or today would be that seven day notice period.
Okay.
And they follow the seven day period for Southern right Steve?  They did with – I know they follow that but there are some circumstances where they can go with less than seven day notice.
Okay.
And honestly I do not understand all of those rules.
<br>Okay I understand.
I don’t think I understand them either.
Last question is could you just talk a little bit about where maybe Santee Cooper stands in the negotiation to sell down it’s stake in the summary units?  Well what we know is Santee is still in negotiations to sell down some portion of their units and we have not been involved in those negotiations to date.
So nothing has really changed from what we’ve previously disclosed which is that they have notified us of their interest in divesting some of their 45% and they are in negotiations but I don’t know exactly where they stand.
Let me ask this question a little bit differently.
Is there anything that you guys see on a 10 or 15 year horizon economically in the state of South Carolina that would make them materially maybe take out all of their – have no stake left?  Well you’re asking me to read the minds of Santee Cooper but I will tell you that from me personally I would not see anything that would drive them to zero which I think was your question.
I think they are going to want to have some nuclear portfolio.
I believe they have some stated objectives for a emission-free generation in which they cannot achieve without nuclear.
And then everything else is going to depend on a couple of things.
One it’s going to be load growth and secondly it’s going to be the impacts of EPA rules and regulations on coal facilities.
Okay that is all I had today thanks guys.
Thank you Jim.
Our next question will come from Travis Miller of Morningstar.
Inc.</strong>  Good afternoon thanks.
Good afternoon.
Inc.</strong>  Is there anything that we could read into the Chairman’s decision to vote against Vogel that might have any kind of impact on the upcoming vote for you guys?  No… Inc.</strong>  Material differences that…  Yes we don’t expect any material differences; I would anticipate that when we see our vote it will be the same as the Vogel vote because there’s really is no reason for it to be any different.
They’re the reference combined offering a license application and we are the first subsequent.
So at the premise under which he voted against it for Vogel should be the same as his vote for us.
So my anticipation would be that we will still see a four to one vote.
His vote really was based on the Fukushima lessons learned and their incorporation and he would like to see a licensed condition.
The other commissioners did not see it that way and in reality from my perspective there is really very little difference whether there was a licensed condition or whether we have to comply with all of the Fukushima-related orders that the NRC will put out once we become a licensee.
So we’re going to have to comply with them anyway whether there was a licensed condition or not I think really is not really that relevant.
Inc.</strong>  Sure and then on those extra regulations I assume that if you had to incur extra costs based on whatever the NRC comes out on you’d have to go back to the South Carolina regulators get all of that approved get that into the budget under the BLRA is that the plan that you guys would foresee if you needed to make adjustments to the current project?  If we had to make any adjustments to the project we would see that as additional costs.
They would either be an owner’s cost or cost that the consortium would pass onto us but more likely an owner’s cost and then we would go into the public service commission which we’re roughly planning on doing annually to  update anyway with an update filing to recover those costs.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our  next question will come from John Ali from Decade Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys nice quarter.
Just a question I apologize if you answered this I joined late.
When you filed for the new build schedule what does that do to 12/13 CapEx?  Well we've been delayed by we're running almost eight months now Steve beyond what we expected for the COL delivery seven months or so.
So we've naturally pushed some of the construction that was expected in 2011 into 2012.
So we're kind of pushing that a little bit into another year.
We really haven't changed it a great deal other than the two items Steve outlined earlier which we the potential owner’s cost increases that were filed in our BLRA yesterday referenced.
And also these challenge costs we're negotiating with the consortium.
So keep in mind that a lot of the capital expenditures we would not intend to change.
For example we've got a large component being manufactured overseas things like reactor vessels or steam generators or piping turbine generators all those kinds of things.
We would not anticipate changing the schedule for delivery on those we would like to keep the pressure on those suppliers to hold their original dates.
I would much prefer to store it onsite then to give them another six months in their delivery schedule.
And then we've got another raft of activities that are going on at the site.
For example the containment vessel itself which is a very very large steel cylinder we are fabricating that right at the site adjacent to our construction project.
And we would anticipate continuing with the fabrication construction of those kinds of items irregardless of which option we would have chosen in that COL delay study.
So the CapEx in 12/13 won't be materially different from what's in the slides today?  That's right our best estimate today is in the slide.
That slide is updated from what we had previously published.
For example 2012 went up about $90 million and that's due to that push of items from 11 to 12 not increased cost in 2012.
Right but there's no slide from pushing the Unit Two back?  No at this point well of course we as Steve said earlier and maybe you missed this part of his comments but we have indicated a preference for the Option 3 we have not gotten the revised construction cash curve from the consortium back.
And once we have that we will refine the CapEx.
Okay but if that were to if Option 3 were to become official what would you expect the CapEx in ’11-‘12 to do?  Or all the changes in kind of like the outer years – ’14 ‘15?  Yes unfortunately I really don't have an answer to that.
That's why we've asked the contractor to give us that answer we just don't have that.
As Steve gave you some example of things that are going on in parallel with the COL delay I mean I wouldn't expect a material change in it but I would expect some.
Got you.
And today’s guidance assumes normal weather or assumes kind of the weather we've all been having?  Well that's irrelevant in all our regulated jurisdictions of the Carolina's because we have weather normalization in our electric and both of our LDC gas businesses so…  [Inaudible] Georgia.
Yes the only one is Georgia.
It was a little milder in January but that's based on normal weather.
Got you thank you very much.
Our next question will come from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Yes hey guys thanks.
I just want to follow on John's questions I want to make sure I understand.
The CapEx guidance you laid out in that BLRA report last night and that are on the slides do not reflect the feedback you're expecting to get from Westinghouse and Shaw is that correct?  And that feedback could have a revised schedule.
Yes that's correct.
It could have a revised CapEx expenditure schedule but I don't think that we would anticipate that it would be hugely different than what we already have loaded into our CapEx budget for the next three years.
Got it.
It can push it out you know move ‘12 CapEx in ‘13 a little bit or ‘13 into ‘14 but the grand total of three year CapEx probably doesn't move around a lot.
Yes the point we're really trying to get across here is that even if we were to defer the one unit by like six months not everything stops or is deferred six months.
We've got a lot of things that we're continuing to push towards their original completion date.
Got it okay.
The other thing the CapEx guidance laid out on these slides does not include – I want to make sure I understand this; it does include the incremental $150 million of owner’s cost but it does not include the $188 million disputed cost between you and the contractors?  Yes that's correct.
Yes with one clarification Michael.
As far as the 150 it includes the parts that we project to fall within ‘12 ‘13 and ‘14 so some of it is in ‘15 ‘16 ‘17.
So we estimate about $85 to $90 million of that 150 is in ‘13 and ‘14 with none of it in ‘12.
Got it but that's in your numbers already?  Absolutely.
Okay.
Last thing in the BRLA report you all talk a little bit about two issues that we had questions on.
One was some of the QA/QC issues that Shaw Modular Systems in terms of kind of the fabrication of the modules.
And second the permitting process for some of the water the NPDEF permits.
Can you just walk us through what some of the issues are and what any concerns you may have and what you're doing to resolve those issues.
Let's start first with the modules Shaw Modular Solution facility in Lake Charles is a facility that has that Shaw constructed specifically for assembly of these modules or what we would call submodules that will be shipped to our site and then finally assembled at our site.
Now we have a schedule for receipt of those and as is typical of startup type facilities they're struggling a little bit with getting their quality assurance and quality control up to nuclear standards.
That is something that we're trying to help them with.
They did have one Nuclear Regulatory Commission inspection in 2011 that was suspended basically because they didn't have enough work going for the NRC to evaluate.
They've subsequently finished that inspection in November of last year.
So they're getting their act together at Shaw Modular Solutions but as we point out in that BLRA a quarterly filing it is an area of focus for us and we SCE&amp;G are spending a lot of time at that facility.
Relative to the other part of your question remind me again what the question was.
On the NPEDF permit process.
Yes we have had we have a lot of permits that are required for this the COL is obviously the biggest one but it's just one.
We have permits that are issued by a lot of different agencies.
The NPEDF is something that should not slow us down.
It’s just that we had anticipated receiving it at one date and we were asked for additional information that really has to do with flows in the Broad River.
And what you do is you evaluate the lowest flow condition over an extended period of time and they wanted us to reevaluate those flows.
So we'll do that and get back to them but we don't anticipate that's going to have any impact on the project.
Got it okay.
I appreciate it guys thank you.
Our next question will come from Jay Dobson of Wunderlich Securities.
Good afternoon.
I was hoping you could talk a little bit about industrial sales in the fourth quarter which did seem down a little bit.
And maybe talk about them relative to the industrial gas sales which actually seem to be pretty strong.
And sort of what you're seeing from an industrial perspective.
Well things continue to go well here from an industrial stand but as far as new announcements go we had another 1 900 jobs or so that we referenced back on Slide 7 that were announced in the fourth quarter.
So we continue a good trend of industrial announcements.
You know I don't have specifics couldn't disclose them if I could but there are more in the hopper here.
So we really see good long-term platform there for restoration.
We've got a good distribution in industrial around our service territory.
The largest of any segment is chemicals which is about a quarter of our base.
But then it's well distributed among metals paper rubber plastics et cetera.
The fourth quarter was a little down.
I'm not too concerned about that now because all of the other announcements we've had.
And as those come on the short of it is our largest 20 or 25 customers continue to grow as a group and it has been some of the smaller industrials that have been more erratic.
And I think we're showing up there in the fourth quarter kind of year of year.
But if you think back to 2010 there was a rapid buildup in industrial sales compared to 2009 coming out of the depth of the recession.
And I think a lot of inventories were beginning to be rebuilt and now some of these smaller industrial customers are kind of finding their point of equilibrium.
And I'm not too concerned about that in the fourth on the electric side.
On the gas side you're just continuing to see a lot of folks that can convert from alternative fuels run on gas just because of the low price of natural gas compared to other petroleum products is very competitive.
Okay great that's helpful.
And in light of your confidence around industrial do you guys have a forecast for 2012 industrial?  Well we've not broken it out separately but it's obviously built in and it's a bottom-up build from detailed discussions with our account reps with all the industrials that are our territory based on what we think they're going to do from production expansion et cetera and that's built into our earnings guidance and our internal point estimate of 317.
Okay great.
And then Jimmy maybe you could talk a little bit about the decision points around the 2012 rate case.
I appreciate that in your prepared comments you mentioned you had not made any decision and obviously has to be a filing in the second half of this year but just sort of how the decision points must go weighing against your current [Inaudible] earning situation.
Well we're going to typically follow that two-to-three year cycle.
The middle of the year will be two years and obviously middle of 2013 will be three years we're going to stay within that band.
But I think all of you appreciate the importance of communications with the intermediary body the Office of Regulatory Staff they serve a critical role here.
We're going to keep them informed of where we are.
We're going to be considerate of the timing of increases under the Base Load Review Act.
We're going to be considerate of items surrounding our potential fuel hearing and adjustments like that.
So we're really going to try to do anything we can to keep from really pancaking those increases in rates.
And so that's a lot of what goes into the strategy.
And we'd like to get a little more feel for what's coming you know how the recovery is economically and how much of a potential margin need that 200 basis points we're looking at there how much that might be filled by growth in customers and expansion of the economy as opposed to having to raise the rates on the customers to provide it.
So that's a long answer to say somewhere between the middle of ‘12 and the middle of ‘13.
Got you.
It sounds like it's basically economic and administrative issues.
There's nothing really beyond that.
I appreciate you know I'm not asking you to predict when you're going to file and know you have to communicate with your folks there.
But if I'm just to categorize it it sounds like it's economic issues and then more administrative timing around rate cases.
I would agree.
I mean it's a matter of when not if.
And when you have a business like this that's subject to inflationary pressures and you only have increases periodically you've got to go back and you can't just absorb those costs although we've done a good job of handling the cost over the last five years or so.
Great.
and then last question I didn't think maybe I missed it when do you expect Westinghouse Shaw to come back to you with the re-cut costs as a result of the COL delay study and your selection or at least leaning towards scenario three?  The first thing we need to do is conclude on negotiations with the consortium on the validity of those costs which we have not accepted.
So I don't know whether it would be a month six weeks two months something along those lines but I would imagine it's somewhere in the next couple of months we ought to have both a new construction schedule milestone schedule and a CapEx forecast.
Got you but if you're just getting that in sort of a three-month timeframe it might be is it fair to say that it might be a bit of a stretch to assume it would be in the next BLRA filing and that it might be a second from now?  So not the May but the August?  Yes I really think that depends a lot on the negotiations.
I think the consortium is certainly capable of turning around within a month or two it just depends on how else they're going to follow that if they know that we're still in negotiating with them.
But at some point they have to give us that new schedule and if we decide to forgo the negotiations and go to some other kind of dispute resolution then they would give it to us based on what they know at the time.
And then they would have to rectify that when the dispute resolution played out.
And let me just add if we are successful in negotiations which we sure hope everyone can reach a negotiated settlement on all of this you won't necessarily have to wait until a quarterly BLRA filing to get that information.
If it happened in between those as it likely will we might end up just doing a briefing for the commission of having it in a special update filing with them.
Okay fair enough but just so I understand the cadence you would get something back from them?  Again you've finished your negotiations then you get something back from them there's some internal analysis that you're doing.
You not I think you've said several times here you've not decided on scenario three you'd be looking at those.
So if you got those costs or got that information from Westinghouse Shaw you know two days before BLAA filing it's not going to be in that BLRA filing I assume it's going to be again as you pointed out Steve pushed out into either a special briefing or the following BLRA filing?  Yes unless it was the BLRA the quarterly BLRA updates are really due 45 days after the end of the quarter.
So if there was something that was that material that happened in that interceding 45 days again depending on when those 45 days had transpired we might be able to put it in that previous BLRA quarterly update.
Perfect that's great.
Thanks for the help.
Yes sure.
Our next question will come from Andy Levi of Caris.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
Can you hear me?  Sure.
Okay good.
Just a couple questions.
This one I think I missed I think you answered already but the 188 million that would just flow through the BLRA or you’d have to actually have – actually not the BLRA that would have to flow through a separate filing right is that correct?  It would be a separate update filing to the public service commission but again included under the BLRA.
But that would be CapEx though if you know we ended up incurring an extra charge in that and the commission approves it that would be CapEx it wouldn’t be…  That’s right.
…write-off or anything.
And then…  No we’re not building it for any purpose other than to serve customers.
Right I understand.
And then of the 188 is there a breakdown like how much is bedrock how much are other issues?  We’d haven’t broken that down just because we’re still in negoiations with the consortium so we wanted – they had asked to – for us to include all of these things that were open items on the table at the time we wanted to negotiate the COL Delay study and so we’re going to respect their – the negotiating process of both parties.
We put the bond on it but I don’t want to break it out just yet.
And I guess what I’m a little confused about maybe you guys are too is I guess part of the delay I mean bedrock is bedrock but wasn’t part of the delay because of the design certification taking longer on Westinghouse’s part?  Yes.
I guess that’s kind of part of the negotiation.
That’s the reason for the dispute.
Okay I hear you on that one.
Okay and then on the modules can you give us any specific like which pieces or which parts that are being constructed had issues?  Well the modules are largely structural modules that form the buildings of the new plant and these will be modules that generally are going to go in the inside of the containment vessel and outside that form parts of the auxiliary building fuel handling building those kinds of things.
They have had to redesign a number of those based on their discussions with the NRC Regulatory Commission around DCD Revision 19.
So it really is – their claim anyway is that they NCR Regulatory Commission to satisfy them they’ve had to make changes to this design.
So that you know without getting into specifics so we’ve got a number of modules; the first one for example we expect to show up on site it’s a module that’s called CA20 which is a relatively large it weighs about 2 million pounds it’s about the size of a 7-story building.
We’ll get that in 72 different subassemblies and we will put it together on site.
But it’s those 72 subassemblies to CA20 being fabricated at the SMS facility in Lake Charles Louisiana.
They’ve had t make some changes to those structural modules; supports materials those kinds of things.
Okay and then I guess as you kind of look at your EPC contract with Shaw is there any other things that we kind of just need to keep an eye out for over the next couple of years that could arise similar to the claims that were made by Shaw on the 188 million I mean whether it’s bedrock or other type of things or is that kind of unpredictable?  Well it’s unpredictable but I think a lot of those are probably bias.
For example you know you take core bores to try to characterize what the bedrock looks like underneath you know between 20 and 40 feet of earth and this one depression in the bedrock just happened to be between two core bores.
So you know that’s something that Shaw could not have known about so that is probably more legitimate than anything else.
They’re going to take some concrete and fill that in is really what the issue is there.
With regard to the change that they’ve had to do the design changes they’ve had to do to things like the modules with the approval of the certified design for the AP1000 Revision 19 which came in December they are past those design issues.
So I would anticipate that those kind of things would be far less significant going forward as a certified design is approved.
Okay thank you guys.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Ashar Khan of Visium.
Hi how are you doing.
Good Ashar.
Can I just go back I just wanted to make sure I have this correct.
Slide 9 which shows the regulatory returns rate based numbers are as of September 30 2011 as well?  I know you tell us that they’re allowed ROEs as of that date but what date are the rate based numbers?  Are they also the same date?  They are.
The only exception to that Ashar would be the new nuclear the second one.
That’s of the mid-year filing in 2011 that’s more like June 30.
And I mentioned in my script we had 156 million of additional QUIP subsequent to that date.
So June 30 2011.
Okay.
Right.
And all the others are September 30.
Okay.
And then if I can just go to this new CapEx slide that you have kind of given us on Page 10 could you tell us I know from the last slide that we had your new nuclear builds CapEx if I’m right I’m just – sorry I’m going back and forth was something like 478 in ’11 and you said you came in shy of that.
Can you tell us what exactly new nuclear spend was in 2011 please?  I don’t have that at my fingertips Ashar but I can tell you in 2012 we increased $90 million and it’s principally those items that were pushed from ’11 into ’12.
Okay so all the 90 million increase in ’12 is all because of the – from going from ’11 to ’12?  Right.
Okay.
And then could you just help us the 60 I guess million increase in ’13 what is driving that?  That’s about 40 million increase and the majority of that you see the separate line we added for estimated additional owner’s costs so that’s the portion of the 150 million Steve discussed earlier that falls in ’13 and ’14.
So the majority of the increase is driven from those additional owner’s costs that we’ll be filing for.
Okay.
And Jimmy can I just ask you the – now of course having known where you are in 2011 which you said you came exactly around your target and with decoupling and with the BLRA and with the if I’m right would you tell us on Slide 9 right there are no regulatory things to do in 2012 right except for the BLRA filing.
Am I right?  There’s no regulatory rate case going on as part of this process?  No not as in a base-rate case.
I mean there’s always a variety of matters; there’s our annual fuel review for electric fuel there’s our demand side management file we’ve got a variety of items that are more I’ll call them annual repetitive type things.
Okay.
So then this comes by big question.
We don’t – we are not impacted by weather.
We are not impacted by I guess sales of such right because we have [inaudible].
Why do we – can you just remind us again why we have such a wide range as part of the process?  For our guidance for 2012? Yes.
Okay but in Georgia Reg we do have a new contact here right so the only exposure in Georgia is I guess what a rate is that correct? Well that’s kind of over simplifying.
That’s a very dynamic market and that market changes a lot.
Over the last two years it’s moved the majority  of more than half of the customers are moving to fixed-price contracts.
So it’s an over simplification to say the only thing on the margin is weather.
But we do estimate and I said earlier in my comments that estimate 22 to $0.24 a share in Georgia.
So you know we’ll feel pretty good about that.
But if you step back and say $0.20 a share on $3.17 of earnings I mean that’s still 6 7% range.
To me that’s not that broad.
Understood.
And can you just remind us I apologize I probably didn’t go through the thing.
How much did we earn in Georgia in this year 2011?  About $0.19.
About $0.19.
Okay.
We had a mild early part of the year and the mild December.
Okay.
And then just if I can just going back to Slide 9 right I’m just trying to do a theoretical I can just take the rate base of the new nuclear and multiply it with the equity ratio and the 11% ROE to kind of say hey this is what earnings are on a dollar basis coming from the new nuclear?  Right?  Is that a fair thing?  Yes I think that’s fair.
As I said earlier I mean that’s really simplifying the calculation.
I had not thought about it like that before but I think that’s fair.
It should be covering the debt one for one right?  I mean that’s the assumption we’re making in that but we’ll think about that and maybe provide something at maybe our analyst day on that.
But Jimmy just one more question if I can end up with.
Would debt cost coming in much lower does that help us or hurt us?  Well the incremental debt costs that – the bond deal for example that we did in January at SCE&amp;G was new money.
So even though it’s at 4.2 4.3% that’s a historically low rate.
It’s still a new 4.3% on 250 million dollars.
So it’s – it’s additional interest cost on a weighted average basis it will pull down the debt portfolio weighted average debt cost somewhat but there’s still more debt out there more interest to pay.
And it’s covered by the BLRA.
Right but this is what I don’t know.
Does the BLRA get updated for capital costs?  That part it doesn’t.
So the equity rate results are fixed in it and that ratio is also – debt costs are also fixed in it.
Am I right?  No.
The equity rate of 11% of 6 the cap structure is updated each time we file.
What about the debt cost the debt rate?  It’s updated.
The debt rate is also updated?  Yes the only thing that’s fixed is the return on equity of 11%.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
You’re welcome.
Our next question will come from Paul Patterson of Glenrock.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Hello Paul.
How are you doing?  All my questions have been answered except just – and I apologize if I missed this when we talk about customer usage I know there was some weather impacts for the year and stuff but just what are you seeing there?  How has that been changing?  I know the unemployment rate seems to be getting better and what have you but what are you – can you just give us a little bit of a flavor as to what you’re seeing?  Yes for the year as a whole ’11 versus ’10 weather normalized usage for residential and industrial was up less than 1% but commercial was down a couple of percentage.
As I said in my comments earlier you know industrial has got to lead there have to be jobs out there for folks to have confidence to start spending money at home.
And then that’s got to translate ultimately into more commercial business.
So I think we’re seeing that on the industrial and residential side but it’s not translated to the commercial side yet.
To me the kind of wild card in this we saw this impact several years ago I think for our industry is what happens to gasoline prices this summer.
I heard a report this morning that gasoline prices could hit an all-time high this summer.
And if they do that’s money straight off of the discretionary income of every household.
And that can have a significant impact that can cause a concern over demand.
You know I hope those reports don’t prove to be true but certainly as natural gas has come down we’ve not seen – we’ve seen the inverse of that in petroleum.
Okay and then just the less than 1% just to clarify that is customer usage that’s not involving customer growth or that’s usage per customer we’re talking about?  That’s right.
We were – I’m personally – we had planned a little more pessimistically than that and we were you know it’s a little bit of an optimistic message that we’ve now seen a couple of quarters in a row that translated into a full year year over year of increased usage weather normalized net of the growth of additional number of customers.
Right.
Well all my other questions were answered.
Thanks a lot.
Sure.
Our next question will come from Dan Jenkins of State of Wisconsin.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Hello.
First I was wondering if you could just update me on a couple of 2011 numbers.
The first the CapEx and then second the cash from operations?  Do you have those?  Dan I do not have those.
We will – those will be filed in our 10-K in two weeks.
Okay.
And second I was wondering you know you’d mentioned – someone else asked a little bit about the industrial gas sales in the quarter.
You know they were up 20%.
I was wondering if you could give a little more color on the particular you know is that driven by chemical or new – a new plant coming on or you know that seems like a pretty big jump in the quarter.
Well some of that’s in transportation.
I mean when customers that buy interrupt gas if they you know the price of natural gas coming down like it has when they had the opportunity to run on alternate fuels and they can switch to natural gas they’re switching.
In addition to that we’ve got customers that are calling us now that do not operate on natural gas that are interested in getting natural gas supply in the future because of the low price compared to their current fuels.
So I just think you’re seeing that really driven off the price of natural gas you’re just seeing much more driven off that.
Well is that something then that going forward you think we’ll be dependent on the price – the gas prices as opposed to just based demand in the service territory or how should we think about that?  Well I think it’s both.
I mean I think certainly the economy as a whole and what they need to produce in their relative businesses it’s going to drive – obviously drive their production.
Then the price of gas compared to their other choices of fuel is going to drive which choice they make in their fuel source.
So I really don’t think you can separate the two although they’re – I don’t think you can say it’s just one over the other both are included.
Okay.
And then I was curious you know with the new EPA rules on mercury and all that coming out if you have any comment on how that will impact?  It doesn’t look like there’s a lot of CapEx related to environmental in your budget.
How should we think about the environmental rules?  I think we spent quite a bit of money in the last few years on environmental and getting our largest coal-fired stations scrubbers SCRs baghouses so that about 70% of our coal fleet is now fully scrubbed with SCRs and baghouses.
So from a compliance perspective we think those larger plants will meet all of the known EPA rules and regulations.
Obviously we can’t comment on what we don’t yet know.
The phase-in period we were heartened by particularly with things like the mercury and air toxins rule with three years plus basically.
It has been know that if you ask for an additional year of implementation of a statewide basis it will likely be granted.
So with the four-year phase-in and most of our plants compliant we think we’re in pretty good shape on the known rules.
Okay and then the last thing I was curious about was you know you saw 6% - I mean a $0.06 pickup based on the lower O&amp;M in the quarter.
I wonder if you could give a little more color on what drove that and if that’s the way to expect going forward?  Well we’ve had a constant focus on cost control significantly stepped up during this recession.
I think we’ve really got our hands and our culture around that.
I think our – if you look over the last several years it’s not just a quarterly trend but the fourth quarter there was a fairly significant number there.
Frankly some of that was driven by some of our incentive comp that’s earnings driven.
We did not hit our internal target so we did not – we will not be paying out a portion of that related to that incentive.
Some of our incentive comp is driven by the performance of the stock did not reach targeted levels.
Frankly after Fukushima the stock took quite a shot so we did not hit some of those.
So some of that is related to the accruals or incentive comp but they’re just a hodgepodge of other items in there too.
But what you – what you can count on in 2012 is a targeted O&amp;M that’s flat with 2011 and that’s our goal.
Okay thank you and good luck on COL.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from (Usman Aragondia of Catopal Capital).
Hi guys.
Great call.
My question has already been asked so I appreciate it.
Sure.
Thank you.
And our final question will come from Tim Winter of Gabelli &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon guys and thanks for sticking around a little longer than an hour.
Hopefully I’ll be quick.
I’m just wondering Jim can you clarify that 2012 guidance is based on diluted shares versus ’11 which was basic?  No they’re both based on basic.
We have to do this diluted capitalization to comply with the accounting pronouncements but we’re not going to pull the equity down until the later part of the year so we base our guidance on basic earnings.
Okay and then the financing plan that assumes 50% bonus depreciation would there be any impact if we – we’re at another year of 100%?  Well there might be some fine tuning around it but frankly we would have to put that in consideration in conjunction with the discussion Steve was having earlier around the COL negotiations the change orders that type of things.
So you’ve got to put all that in you’ve got some things possibly going off different directions.
Okay and then finally looking at the Appendage 2 of your BLRA filing early ’12 and ’13 are the heaviest CapEx years.
I assume – and they decline you know pretty significantly in ’15 and ’16.
I’m assuming those will be the heaviest rate increase years?  And as you’re thinking about – or as we’re thinking about when you file a base-rate case for the non-nuclear part of the company what sort of level or rate BLRA increase are we looking at in ’12 and ’13?  Are we still under 5% annual rate increase?  Yes.
I think that’s in the ballpark.
I mean of course that’s also dependent upon what kind of change in the CapEx there is as a result of these negotiations as a result of the COL delay study of delaying the first new unit and accelerating the third new unit.
We’ve got to get all of that information form the consortium before we really understand that and the impact on rates.
But overall we originally when we originally filed for the approval of the plants and they were approved we’re projecting about a 2 1/2% average increase and now it’s less than that principally because of inflation being less than we expected.
So yeah it’s going to – by pushing these out and compacting the period it’s definitely going to drive up the peak but the average increase is lower than we originally projected because the overall cost is lower than we originally projected.
Okay thank guys.
Sure.
And that will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the question back over to Jimmy Addison for any closing comments.
Well thank you.
And just to summarize we’re very pleased with our results for 2011 which were in line with our guidance and we’re optimistic about 2012.
Our nuclear strategy continues to move forward as expected in all areas with the progress of construction and licensing to execution of the plant financings and the BLRA increases each year.
We believe 2012 will be an exciting year as we anticipate receiving the COL and we look forward to further economic recovery in our service territory.
And we thank you for your interest in SCANA.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
My name is (Amily) and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Thursday May 3 2012.
Anyone who does not consent to this taping may drop off the line at this time.
I would like to turn the conference call over to Byron Hinson Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Financial Planning and Investor Relations</strong> Thank you.
I'd like to welcome everyone to our earnings conference call including those who are joining us on the webcast.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the first quarter of 2012.
Joining us on the call today are Jimmy Addison SCANA's Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer of SCE&amp;G.
The slides and the earnings release that we'll refer to in this call are available at scana.com.
Before I turn the call over to Jimmy I would like to remind you that certain statements that maybe made during today's call which are not statements of historical facts are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties which are shown on slide two and discussed in the company's SEC filings.
The company does not recognize an obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Finally as noted on slide two we will disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation and the required Reg G information can be found in the slides used in conjunction with this call.
I'll now turn the call over to Jimmy.
Thanks Byron and thank you all for joining us today.
During today's call I will discuss our financial results and economic activity for the first quarter and provide an update on our outlook for the remainder of the year.
Additionally Steve will provide an update on our nuclear project after which we will respond to your questions.
As shown on slide three basic earnings per share were $0.93 for the first quarter of 2012 versus $1 in 2011.
Increases in electric margin from rate increases under the Base Load Review Act were more than offset by lower gas margins in Georgia due to significantly milder weather higher operating and maintenance expenses and the costs of our capital program interest expense depreciation and share dilution.
According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration this winter was one of the warmest in over 100 years.
Our gas margins in Georgia were impacted by $0.06 due to milder than normal weather and an additional $0.02 compared to the colder than normal quarter in 2011 for $0.08 total.
Additionally although the electric WNA mechanism largely mitigates the impact of weather on electric margins certain weather-sensitive load is not subject to the mechanism churches and schools as an examples.
So there can be some earnings impact during extreme weather periods such as this quarter.
As a result SCE&amp;G's electric margin was negatively impacted by $0.01 of abnormal weather this quarter.
As an aside it would have been down $0.14 without the WNA mechanism.
Now on slide four I would like to review results for our principal lines of business.
South Carolina Electric &amp; Gas Company's 2012 first quarter earnings per share denoted in blue were flat compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Electric margin was $0.07 higher due to increases under the Base Load Review Act net of the $0.01 weather decline.
This increase in margin was offset by higher operating and maintenance expenses interest expense and depreciation as well as share dilution.
Total weather-normalized electric sales to residential and commercial customers were relatively flat over the first quarter.
Industrial sales were down approximately 2% due to reduced production at one of our largest customers as a result of a fire.
We understand this customer's production will likely be limited for the majority of the year.
PSNC Energy's earnings for the first quarter of 2012 shown in red were $0.24 per share compared to $0.25 per share in 2011.
Increases in customer growth were slightly more than offset by higher operating and maintenance expenses and share dilution.
SCANA Energy in green reported lower earnings for the first quarter of 2012 due to the aforementioned milder weather.
In the first quarter of 2011 weather increased SCANA Energy's margins by $0.02.
However the extremely mild weather in the first quarter of 2012 resulted in an $0.08 swing in margins.
Next I would like to touch on economic trends in our service area as shown on slide five.
We continue to see business growth and expansion.
In the first quarter companies announced plans to invest $124 million with expectations of creating over 200 jobs in our South Carolina territory.
Our gas businesses in North Carolina also saw a promising quarter of economic announcements with companies projecting investment of $194 million and over 2 900 jobs.
These announcements covered a variety of industries such as plastics metals and food and beverage.
As I have mentioned previously 2011 was an excellent year in terms of economic announcements and we are pleased that this trend appears to be continuing.
Another measure – container volume at the Port of Charleston also continues to improve.
Volume during March of this year was the highest since October 2008.
First quarter of 2012 volume was 7% higher than the first quarter of 2011.
We continue to be encouraged by the trend in unemployment rates particularly in the areas we serve as all three states along with the national rate decreased in December – since December.
Our service territory in South Carolina is heavily concentrated in the Charleston and Columbia metro area where the average rate has fallen to 7.3% 90 basis points below the national average.
This recent industrial expansion has obviously translated into jobs.
The chart in the bottom left of the slide shows customer growth at our major subsidiaries.
We continue to experience customer growth in all of our regulated businesses while our Georgia market saw slight decrease in customer count over the prior year likely due to the mild weather.
We are pleased that all of our regulated businesses continue to yield organic growth.
Please turn to slide six which set forth our regulated rate base returns and South Carolina regulatory calendar.
The data on the slide represents information as of December 31 2011 the date of our most recent regulatory filings.
As you can see in the pie chart on the left side our regulated rate base of $7.1 billion is composed largely of SCE&amp;G Electric with closed to $6 billion in total electric investment denoted in blue.
The chart to the right shows our actual and allowed regulatory returns for the period.
Our earned return at the electric business continues to lag behind our lab return despite our cost containment efforts although it improved slightly over the last two quarters.
Many of you have asked about the potential base rate electric filing to address this deficit.
While we have not made any final decisions we are considering filing a Notice of Intent later this month to initiated the regulatory process timeline.
We are requiring to file the notice at least 30 days prior to the filing of a case.
Again the decision around the timing and amount of this filing is not yet named.
Our regulated gas businesses in North and South Carolina continue to earn steady returns as you can see from the chart.
Of course the South Carolina gas business will adjust under the RSA mechanism if it falls more than 50 basis points below the allowed return.
The bottom of the slide includes the two timelines depicting our regulatory filing schedule for 2012 which we shared with you previously.
Since our last earnings call we've completed our electric fuel cost preview and we expect to file our integrated resource plan at the end of May.
Later this month we will file the quarterly status report and annual revised rates request related to the new nuclear project.
In addition to these regular BLRA filings we will be withdrawing our petition to update costs and schedules dated February 29.
Simultaneously we will be filing a new petition updating costs and schedules we previously filed as well as updating the filing for the impact of the issuance of our sea well and to incorporate the $138 million resulting from our preliminary agreement with Shaw and Westinghouse which Steve will discuss in a few minutes.
This will align all of our known nuclear costs in one petition.
All of these nuclear filings will be made available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Slide seven presents our CapEx forecast.
This forecast reflects new nuclear spending as reported in our latest BLRA filing in February which included amounts as of the fourth quarter of 2011 along with the additional cost we disclosed in February.
This slide does not include the additional amounts related to our negotiations with Shaw and Westinghouse which Steve will discuss in more detail.
It also does not include any revisions to the schedule from the shifts and timing of the planned dates the plants will come online.
The consortium is updating the forecast now and we expect to present the updated data in our BLRA filing later this month and in our Analyst Day on June 5.
Please turn to slide eight this slide presents our estimated financing plan through 2014 and has not changed since our last earnings call.
We continue to anticipate an additional debt issuance later in the year and expect to draw the remaining funds from our equity forward in fourth quarter of 2012.
Please turn to slide nine we are reaffirming our earnings guidance of $3.05 to $3.25 per share.
Our long-term outlook is unchanged as we plan to deliver 3% to 5% earnings growth over the three to five-year period based on the 2010 weather normalized base of $2.92 per share.
We have adjusted our expectation of earnings from our Georgia business to consider the impact of weather during this quarter.
Additionally we've considered with our guidance the impact of base rate increases from our new nuclear filings under the BLRA and gas RSA adjustment.
Our effective tax rate for 2011 was just over 30% and we estimate the rate for 2012 will be approximately 31%.
I will now turn the call over to Steve to provide an update on our nuclear project.
Thanks Jimmy.
I'd now like to direct your attention to slide 10.
We are pleased as Nuclear Regulatory Commission has issued the combined construction and operating licenses for our two new nuclear units bringing the licensing proceedings at the NRC to conclusion.
We have given the consortium of full notice to proceed and are moving forward with nuclear safety-related construction.
As you can see on slide 11 we have been making significant progress at the site even prior to the issuance of our COL and this picture is from February of 2012.
Switchyard shown at the bottom of the slide continues toward completion and is scheduled to be energized in the first half of 2013.
Foundations for the cooling towers are progressing as planned welding of the containment vessel lower bowl continues the Unit 2 excavation sites for both the nuclear island and the turbine island are ready for concrete to be poured.
In the center of the picture you can see the heavy lift derrick.
This derrick has a 560 foot long boom and rotates 360 degrees on rails.
It will be used to lift assembled modules and other heavy components and place them in the excavation sites of both units.
Since this photo was taken and after the receipt of our COL we have begun pouring concrete in the excavation for Unit 2.
Over the next few months we will complete placing leveling concrete install the waterproof membrane pour the mud map and lift and set the nuclear island rebar cage.
Rebar cage was made in several sections with lifting process installed to allow fabrication before the COL issuance.
After that we will pour the nuclear island base map which will be approximately six-feet thick.
At this point we'll be ready to set module CR10 on the base map.
CR10 is a steel frame support used to hold the lower though above the base map until the foundation concrete is completed.
Once that concrete is complete we will set the lower containment bowl.
Please turn now to slide 12.
As we announced at the end of March we have signed a preliminary agreement with Shaw and Westinghouse related to challenged cost for the construction of our new nuclear units.
As you might recall these costs related to four items.
The first was on unanticipated raw conditions.
During the excavation for Unit 2 an unanticipated crevice was discovered.
This will be filled in with additional concrete.
The second challenged cost related to a delay in receipt of the COL.
When we signed our EPC contracts in 2008 it was anticipated that the COL would be issued by the NRC in July of 2011.
Due primarily to delays in approval of Rev 19 to the certified design and became evident that the COL would not be issued until early 2012.
In anticipation of this we asked Shaw and Westinghouse to perform a COL delay impact study which provided various cost and timing alternatives arising from this delay in issuance of the COL.
After reviewing the results of their study we opted to delay the commercial operation date of Unit 2 to 2017 and accelerate the date for Unit 3 to 2018 in order to take advantage of economies and efficiencies in the construction schedule and thereby mitigate some of the cost of the initial COL delay.
Originally the commercial operation dates were scheduled for 2016 and 2019.
The other two channels cost related to design modifications to the shield building and structural modules.
On our last earnings call we communicated that we believe the upper bound of SCE&amp;Gs portion of the cost would be approximately $188 million valued in 2007 dollars.
After negotiations we agreed to an amount of $138 million.
As Jimmy mentioned previously these amounts will be reflected in the cost schedules presented in our upcoming filing with the South Carolina Public Service Commission and discuss in detail at our Analyst Day in early June.
We will also continue to provide updates on the progress of construction at the site to our quarterly mining reports with the commission.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We will now be glad to respond any questions you might have.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question will come from Travis Miller of Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good afternoon rather.
Can you give us a sense for some of the key issues you’ll be addressing in the IRP when you file later this month? Obviously the nuclear plant will have a key impact but anything else gas prices power prices stuff like that impact your plans? The IRP is intended to outline where we think the system is going and growing and what our plants will do to help meet that need.
It also will forecast the demand side management impacts on load.
So there will not be a significant discussion about the price of natural gas.
Rather what you’ll see is charge a lot when nuclear plants come on.
It will also discuss some level of plant retirement as it has done for the last couple of IRPs.
Has anything changed materially since your last one that was suggest needing either new generation or needing more retirements leading to more retirements? Well First off the IRP has not been published yet.
I think (indiscernible) scheduled date to publish at the end of this month so I don’t want to get out in front of the IRP with any changes.
Sure okay.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from Jim von Riesemann of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Yes good morning Jim.
Jim go ahead.
Are you there? Hello hello.
Jim we can hear you can you hear us? I can hear you.
You can’t hear? You’re cutting in and out.
Okay.
The question really is on just a modeling question if you don’t mind.
Can you just talk about your trailing 12-month like I am coming up at 292 and what some of the drivers are to get it to your 317 internal number for the year? I have not looked Jim at the trailing 12 months through Q1 but as far as the 317 we issued that the original range backup I think at the third quarter call back in October and then as we’re refined our plan for this year we reaffirmed that and are reaffirming it today in spite of the $0.06 of weather versus normal that we lost in Q1 in Georgia.
I think our keys to achieving that are to continue our aggressive cost control that we’ve had in place now for several years.
We see the possibility of a small rate stabilization increase this fall that’s not final yet but that looks like there is some possibility of that that would impact SCE&amp;G gas business.
You might remember our original assumptions we didn’t have anything in the plan for that.
It looks like we may be able to likely differ the first mortgage bond financing that we have - we had scheduled for in the middle or so the second quarter.
We may be able to push that out a few more months just because of the original delay from the NRC.
We also had planned to do the original issuance that we did in January a little earlier in the month that occurred later in the month.
And also the rates on those various financings that we had in our plan are higher than we realized in January and higher than we project now on the one later this year.
So those are some of the keys to how we think will make up what we realized there as a loss in the first quarter in the weather margins.
Okay.
Switching to Georgia retail for just a second can you just talk about some of the experiences you are seeing with your customers there I don't know how much of its weather how much of it has to be the change in the gas prices etcetera and what the outlook is there? Well we really don't see the outlook change from what we got it earlier.
We really think it's a $0.22 $0.24 kind of business… Okay.
On an annual basis on a weather normal basis.
Of course we had the most unusual weather here that we have had in probably in over 100 years this past quarter.
So we don't see a lot of difference there.
Now for the market as a whole and for our business more customers are on the fixed rate plans as opposed to the variable plans and those just have smaller margins with them.
Then I guess the last question is just a real more holistic question but with respect to the news build at summer now now that you have the COL and you can actually really turn pour concrete and turn the spades etcetera what's keeping you up at night there? Let's keeping us up at night.
Things at the site actually are going fairly well.
Obviously it impacts the construction are going to be things like weather.
We have had good weather so far.
So as long as we get good weather we will keep moving.
We have had good interactions with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission so far.
Getting a license was a big deal for us.
But as I think you found out in the southern disclosures in their last call there are some issues that are going to come up that are regulatory in nature from now to the end of this project and working our way through those is going to be very important to us.
So far I am pleased to say that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission is living up to its obligations and so we need to do the same thing.
You have seen an issue with reinforcing bar or rebar that's going in the – for the base map at Southern's.
Obviously we would be coming under that same issue.
We are just a little behind them.
So we have perhaps a little bit more time to get to resolution than they did so it's a little more urgent for them but those kinds of things are going to come up a lot of more normal course of business things.
This is a new license process.
So when you got things in the certified design that perhaps don't make a 100% sense to implement in the field we got to be able to work our way through those.
Right.
So I guess my takeaway is that it sounds like it still remains just a big old construction project.
I don't think you say anything negatively about supply chain or anything so it's just status quo otherwise? Yeah so far we have been very pleased with the supply chain and we obviously had some concerns with the – little over a year ago with the earthquake and tsunami in Japan that some of our materials and components are coming from Japan but those deliveries have been coming.
So we haven't experienced any supply chain issues from Japan fortunately.
Okay great.
Thanks for the questions or the answers please.
Sure.
Our next question comes from Jay Dobson of Wunderlich Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
Jimmy I was hoping you could talk a little bit about O&amp;M it was up in the quarter yet you talked a little bit about your cost control plans for the balance of the year and maybe talk a little bit about what happened in the first quarter and then how we are going to think about that going through the balance of this year? Sure.
Well we still remain firmly committed to managing the O&amp;M for the year to a level that's similar to 2011 some of the timing of expenses they have to occur when the operations obviously drive them.
In Q1 of this year couple of examples like you've asked for we had a combustion inspection at one of our combined cycle gas units that was not in the comparable quarter from the year before so that occurred in Q1.
We are running those plants a great deal now.
So you've got to do the inspections.
That's not something that occurs each quarter.
So that's more cyclical if you will.
We have moved – changing gears on you moved into healthcare plans high deductible plans.
We have encouraged employees to consider those.
Last year 2011 was the first year.
We had about 20% of the employees to adopt the plan last year voluntarily I was one of those.
This year about 50% have adopted it.
As part of that transition we the corporation puts seed money into their HSA accounts to help encourage them to move to this to carry the cash flow in the early part of the plan.
So we obviously funded all of the seed money upfront.
Later as we move through the year we think we will see that level out.
So healthcare was up about $0.01 per share.
And then you may remember last year I commented that due to two items one us lowering our long-term earnings guidance to 3% to 5% and two Fukushima our stock took quite a hit in the early part of the year.
And as a result we were substantially below several of our equity based incentive comp plans.
So the stock has performance much better this year so there's about a $0.01 due to that.
So some of those things are kind of our timing type matters that we don't expect are really linear throughout the year.
We are comfortable with saying we're going to manage hard to get towards a flat O&amp;M year-over-year.
That's great.
Thanks for the clarity.
And then similarly on residential usage I know it's hard to view through the weather normalization mechanism but just sort of highlight what the trends you're seeing there and if we are seeing any pinch of a reprisal in some growth there?  Well you are exactly right when you say it's hard to view.
My short answer to it is it's just shop and I've commented on that last year that we've seen a couple of good quarters but that doesn't trend make this year in the first quarter commercial was up close to 3%.
It looks like early announce looks like residential was down close to 3% but that's just one quarter and it just doesn't make a lot of sense to try to analyze it on a long-term basis.
Year-over-year 2011 compared to '10 it was up slightly over 1% for residential.
So we still see good industrial growth on the system.
We see good unemployment numbers coming down fairly significantly with our electric territory falling well below the national unemployment rate almost one full percent.
So we think the long-term trend is good but trying to look at these usage rates on a quarterly basis is pretty difficult draw any conclusions.
Got you.
So you're still remaining somewhat conservative there from a sales forecasting perspective and I'm talking specifically on the residential class?  We are.
Okay great.
And then lastly Steve I was open you could talk a little more about the base mat rebar issue that’s other is identified and just sort of what your understanding of it is and then to a fairly granular degree if you don't mind and then how it would impact you they seemed unwilling to be talk about whether it was a warranty or actually an issue with the installation versus the plan and I'm trying to understand how it impacts you all? Okay.
It's not an installation issue within with no problem with the installation.
The issue came out with the design certification document identified specifications for how the rebar cage would be constructed.
During our constructability reviews the constructor said this is going to be difficult and went back to the designer and said could we do it a different way.
The designer looked at and said yes those drawings were amended and went to the field.
So within the field was constructed in accordance with the drawings.
However the drawings were not as the original design certification drawing was.
And you have options with changing some of the designs but it's what the DCD would call a Tier 1 or Tier 2 star kind of a detail.
You need to get pre-approval to make those kinds of changes and the position of the vendor was this was a Tier 2 issue which means that they could have made those changes the position of the regulators was now to Tier 2 star issues so you need to get pre-approval and that's where the rub comes in.
That slight differences between the Vogel project and our project that Vogel got a limited work authorization so they actually are ahead of us on the work in the excavation.
So they were at the point where they had poured all their preliminary concrete if you will down concrete to leveling that the mud mat vapor barrier and they were installing the rebar cage.
In our situation we are just starting on that dental concrete in the Unit 2 excavation and we're moving on to the leveling concrete and we're building the rebar cage outside of the excavation in order to say some time.
And then we've our intention was to lift the rebar cage with the big derrick so we've installed lifting lugs in ours.
So we're doing it outside they were doing it inside the excavation.
So we don't actually need that rebar cage until we're finished with all of that preliminary concrete work which is going to be a couple of months yet.
So we’ve got some time to deal with the issue.
Got you.
But just to be specific is designing or building the rebar cage outside of the pit allow you to build it in line with the specs in the DCD or is it still going to have to be changed and then the dispute will be again whether its Tier 1 Tier 2? The resolution to the issue let me be clear ours was built the same way that Southern was going about their construction.
So the resolution to the issue yet has to be determined.
We think we will determine which path going forward will be – we should decide that in the next week or so but is there going to make a change we are more unlikely going to make the change the difference is they are making it inside the excavation while we are doing it outside the excavation but we got some options we are weighing the options and fortunately we are not at the point yet where we need that rebar cage.
So you wouldn't be happy to be behind them but you are.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from David Paltz of Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon guys.
Good afternoon David.
Just switching to guidance your 2012 guidance how much of that comes from earnings from your new nuclear investments? How much of the 317 our internal target? Yeah.
Yeah I don’t know that I’ve got that – David as we really got it – I mean I don’t know if you are asking incrementally for this year because really you’ve got full increases now that have occurred over the last four years that are built into that.
This year of course we’ve got the full year of the increase under the BLRA that was implemented last November and then we would have another two months of the increase that would go in this November.
Alright.
But then maybe the AFUDC earnings that you get on the investments? Yeah I just got – I mean I got your question.
I just don’t have an answer for that.
Sorry.
Fair enough.
Then just if we look at your long-term growth rate of 3% to 5% what earned returns on equity are you assuming on your base electric business excluding the new nuclear? Well we don’t… I mean range will be fine.
Yeah we build you might imagine we build the model differently than you do.
We build it kind of bottom up.
I think many of you guys understandably start from the top and look at our earned return and back into that way.
We build it a different way.
But I would say to answer your question within historical test year when we implement the rates in the base electric business now this is not new nuclear that’s as you understand a different mechanism.
But on the base electric business once you implemented you’re probably going to be 50 basis points behind the allowed return.
And then now you see from the slide in the presentation here we’re a couple of hundred a little less than a couple of hundred basis points under that allowed return.
So you’re generally starting off a little lower than that allowed return 50 basis points or so and I think that some of the consideration that the commission allows in setting the ROEs is they understand with this historical test year.
And with the six month seven month with the notice period minimum process I mean there is going to be some attrition if you will.
Alright okay.
So we don’t really start on in that way and say what’s the estimated allowed return.
We look at the plant rate base CapEx etcetera and build it from bottom-up.
Got it.
But effectively based on the regulatory structure there you have about 50 basis points of under-earnings on a structural basis? If you’re looking at the actual allowed that’s right.
Now the wildcard in all that is any change in the economy and growth.
Now that assumes a static economy - economy of course when it slowed down it contributed to accelerating that and presumably when it speeds up again it will mitigate that.
Right.
In your sales graph I believe you said in past calls as long-term sales graph is 1%? Right.
And then just last question on the challenged costs I know you guys are going to update that.
But just for our purposes should we think of those costs being allocated to near-term CapEx or would it be allocated uniformly across the project timeline? We would allocate them in general across the timeline.
Now some of those costs since are disputed and may have been spent maybe buyer towards the front-end of the project.
But in general we're looking to spread them over the project.
Great thank you so much.
Sure.
Our next question comes from Chris Godby of Stephens.
Please go ahead.
Yeah good day everyone.
Given the light results in the first quarter and maintained guidance how should we think about revenue and earnings distribution over the remainder of the year – for the coming quarters? Yeah.
So I think we discussed this on our third quarter call that may have been at the beginning of the year and I know you're kind of new to the count.
But generally our earnings are distributed about 30% in Q1 and Q4 and about 15% in Q2 25% in Q3.
So that's kind of generally how they fall out.
Sure sure we understand that.
But kind of thinking about with the first quarter being a little bit light do you anticipate kind of change in that distribution or are you unable to kind of comment on that? No I don't anticipate changing it.
That was an abnormal weather in the first quarter.
So I would say as I've said our internal target was 317 take this – we can take these same percentages and apply to that and get fairly close to our internal plan.
Okay okay that's great.
Thank you very much.
Right I mean the abnormal weathers behind us.
We don't presume that's going to happen each quarter from here on.
Sure okay.
Thank you.
Sure.
Our next question comes from (indiscernible).
Please go ahead.
My question has been answered.
Thank you.
Sure.
Our next question comes from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and good afternoon excuse me.
Sure.
Just sorry if I missed this I'm not really clear.
What was the weather normalized growth that you guys are estimating for the quarter? Weather normalized growth Paul could you? Sales growth.
Electric sales what would they have been without this incredibly abnormal weather that you guys had? Okay.
Actual margins as I said earlier commercial margins were up just for the quarter.
Commercial part margins are preliminary announces as they were up about 3%.
Residential was down about 3% compared over the first quarter of 2011.
But that's one quarter.
These margins have been very choppy in the last well frankly over the last couple of years as we try to come out of this recession so I would just caution against… Why was commercial up 3%? I don't have the specifics as to why.
What I can tell you is the last few quarters industrials have been growing substantially over the year before period and the unemployment rates have been coming down.
And as we said in the past industrials typically lead and that translates into jobs which helps on the residential front and then the last to come out of it are commercial.
Now whether that's what we're seeing this first quarter or not I don't know.
This is the first quarter we've seen commercial grow year-over-year.
So I wouldn't draw any conclusions over one quarter.
Okay fine.
And then the credits that you mentioned what was that? Again I'm sorry that was some sort of rock issue what was there? Our side is a hard rock side but it was covered with clay and prior to getting into the construction to map where the rock is we did a series of core bores.
And in the Unit 2 excavation there was one area between two core bores where it was not linear actually it performed a valley or crevice.
And so as a part of that we have to fill right in with concrete.
It was quite a bit of concrete and probably you're going to take a month or so to fill it in.
So that was one of the cost that consortium want to try to recover.
Okay.
And then just finally Santee Cooper selling looks like it's attempting to sell some of its ownership and there have been – are there any concerns that you guys have with respect to the potential new partners you might have credit issues or anything like that that we should be thinking about or I mean does everything look okay over there? Now the parties that Santee Cooper has announced Letters of Intent with so far all appeared to be credit worthy companies.
So we don't have any concern with those.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Just trying to think through a handful of modeling things first of all Jimmy you mentioned there could be potential for an RSA increase at the back end of the year.
That would go into effect when November any kind of thought or guideline on how big or how small the number that could be? Michael it would go into effect in November of course measured for the 12 months ended March 31st.
We obviously just closed those books we've not made the regulatory adjustments and all that are required as part of that filing.
The audit hasn't taken place.
But I would say you have last year kind of as a benchmark.
I don't think it would be any larger than last year but that's just kind of speculation at this point.
If you filed a case I remember one of your prior cases I think you filed it mid-year would that imply implementation Jim on 2013? Now you're switching to electric? Yes sorry yeah.
Yeah right.
It's six months by law in South Carolina so minimum 30 day notice period.
Then the filing can be made any time after that 30 days and then from the time of the filing six months in total rates.
Okay.
And then can you – the RSA that went into effect this last year and the BLRA that went into effect in November how much of that have you benefited from so far? I'm just trying to think through the rest to this year how much of that revenue increased for both of those items as left to take.
Yeah on the RSA I'll tell you it's implemented in November as we discussed earlier and about – for a November implementation about 15% of that increment falls in those tail two months of that calendar year.
So the inverse 85% falls in the next year.
The BLRA frankly I've never analyzed it like that.
The gas is driven off.
The cyclical nature of the gas business I don't know if could use the same numbers two months out of 12 probably more pro-rata on the BLRA side but I really haven't analyzed it like that.
Okay.
So safe to assume that the bulk of the RSA because the bulk of your gas demand is obviously fourth quarter first quarter driven has already been taken and there's probably only a limited amount left but the BLRA is kind of more even or steady ready across the quarters? Right.
Okay.
Last thing I'm little confused about one thing.
When I look at the debt at the holding company it implies like $50 million or $55 million a year of holding company interest and if I spread that across the quarters that's like $0.06 or $0.07 drag per quarter if I were to issue that as a standalone and use your tax rate.
You are reporting $0.05 this quarter and positive earnings that would imply its instant swing and I'm just curious what the biggest contributors to that are meaning if interest is a drag of $0.05 or $0.06 $0.06 or $0.07 what's offsetting that more than $0.10? Well that as you know probably that aggregates not just the holding company but that aggregates the other miscellaneous subsidiaries we held to sale as well like the interstate pipeline business the communications business etcetera so all of those are messed in there together.
Okay.
Have you all ever talk about how much of a contributor you think any of those are likely to be and where they are – was this quarter abnormal or normal was those? No I wouldn't say it's really abnormal I mean with the low of natural gas.
You are getting everybody that can use natural gas from an industrial standpoint they are trying to do it.
If they are not already doing it they are trying to see what they can do to modify their systems to allow them to do it.
So anyone that can take gas industrially is so there is some certainly driven by $2 or so of gas but not a huge amount.
Okay.
And then last on O&amp;M because O&amp;M was up year-over-year in the quarter.
I want to make sure I'm understanding you're basically saying that for some portion whether it starts in second quarter or whether it's very back-end loaded you'll actually see O&amp;M down year-over-year to help offset the first quarter delta? That's our plan.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Much appreciated.
You're welcome.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question comes from Andy Levi of Avon Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hello Andy.
Just to understand the earlier question on the BLRA.
So you're saying that expectation is to file for about the same amount that you filed for last year? No I was talking about RSA then Andy on the gas business.
So on BLRA we had forecasted there in our public docs about I think to slightly over a 3% increase.
We're slightly down in the part of the BLRA period that runs through first quarter this year just because of the NRC delay in issuing the license.
So we're 10% or 15% down in this BLRA cycle on our CapEx.
We expected to be a little less than that.
Our goal is to refresh all of that and file it later this month and go through a full discussion with you at our Analyst Day in about a month.
Okay.
I had misheard.
I apologize.
And then again on this rate case that you'll be filing I guess we have rates go into effect beginning of next year.
Is that kind of how it added? The only thing I want to comment on today really only decisions we've made is to file the notice of intent.
We don’t – we’ve not made any final decisions on when we would actually make a filing and on any amounts et cetera because we're just wrapping up the quarter and preparing this information.
But we want to go ahead and file that letter of intent and that just starts the process.
So that will be filed within the next four weeks you said? Later this month yes.
Later this month.
And then generally the 30 days after that you file your increase or there is no set kind of timeframe on that? Minimum 30 days after.
Minimum 30 days .And then generally once you do file your case at the six month process is that correct? That's by law the six months.
So the 30 days minimum notice and then it's in our option as to when we make the filing afterwards but once we make the filing is six months until rates are implementing.
Okay.
And again you are not willing to talk about this amount or ballpark or anything like that? Growth not that not willing.
I just don't have the information yet.
So if timing were different we would rather be talking about all of that at the same time it is just that we are here on the call today and we felt we should give everyone a heads up because we are getting a lot of questions about it.
Possibly by your Analyst Meeting in New York is that time when we will probably get the details? I don't know that yet we are likely to kind of make – we are going to make the notice filing by then I don't know that we will have the details on the filing at that point it maybe the second quarter call.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Addison for any closing remarks.
Well thank you all for being with us today to summarize.
2012 has already been an exciting time for our company.
We are very pleased to have our combined construction and operating licenses in hand for our new nuclear units and are pleased with our progress we are making on those projects.
While the mild weather impacted our results for the quarter in the Georgia market our core fundamentals remain unchanged and we are continuing to offer a business strategy focused on providing a reliable power to our customers and long-term growth for shareholders and I encourage you all to sign up to attend our Analyst Day on June 5 in New York if you haven't already.
Thank you again for joining us today.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation conference call.
(Operator Instructions) At this time I would like to turn the call over to Byron Hinson Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Thank you.
I'd like to welcome everyone to our earnings conference call including those who are joining us on the webcast.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the second quarter of 2012.
Joining us on the call today are Jimmy Addison SCANA's Chief Financial Officer and Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer of SCE&amp;G.
During the call Jimmy will provide an overview of our financial results economic development on our service territory and regulatory activity including our recently filed base rate case for our electric business.
Additionally Steve will provide an update on our nuclear project after which we'll respond to your questions.
Slides and the earnings release that we'll refer to in this call are available at SCANA.com.
Before I turn the call over to Jimmy I would like to remind you that certain statements that maybe made during today's call which are not statements of historical fact are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties which are shown on Slide 2 and discussed in the company's SEC filings.
The company does not recognize an obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Finally as noted on Slide 2 we will disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation and the required Reg G information can be found in or not used in conjunction with this call.
I'll now turn the call over to Jimmy.
Thanks Byron and thank you all for joining us today.
We're pleased with the financial results for the second quarter and the progress of our new nuclear efforts.
Steve and I plan to thoroughly update you on both of these matters today.
As shown on Slide 3 basic earnings per share were $0.55 for the second quarter of 2012 versus $0.44 in 2011.
Higher electric margin from increased consumption and rate increases under the Base Load Review Act was partially offset by the cost of our capital program interest expense depreciation property taxes and share dilution.
Gas margins were also higher due to the rate increase under the Rate Stabilization Act.
Operating and maintenance expenses grew slightly over the second quarter of 2011 largely due to the timing of plant expenses healthcare cost and incentive compensation.
Please turn to Slide 4.
As you can see basic earnings per share for the six months ended June 30 2012 were $1.48 versus $1.44 in 2011.
Increases in electric margin were partially offset by lower gas margins in Georgia due to the mild weather in the first quarter along with higher operating and maintenance expenses and higher expenses related to our capital program specifically depreciation property taxes interest and share dilution.
Now on Slide 5 I'd like to review results for our principal lines of business.
Healthcare and electric and gas companies 2012 second quarter basic earnings per share denoted in blue were $0.59 an increase of $0.11 over the second quarter of 2011.
Electric margin was higher due primarily to increases under the Base Load Review Act.
Additionally we experienced increased non-weather related consumption during the quarter.
This increase in margin was offset by higher operating and maintenance expenses interest expense and depreciation as well as share dilution.
Year-to-date basic earnings were higher by $0.11 due primarily to higher electric margin.
PSNC energy shown in red reported flat earnings per share for the second quarter of 2012 versus the seasonal loss of $0.01 per share in the second quarter of 2011 increases in margin due to customer growth contributed to the improvement.
For the six-month period ended June 30 2012 basic earnings were $0.24 per share in line with the prior year.
SCANA energy in green reported the seasonal loss of $0.02 per share for the second quarter of 2012 consistent with last year.
Year-to-date earnings are down $0.08 due to the impact of mild winter weather in the first quarter.
Our corporate and other businesses reported their loss for the quarter of $0.02 per share compared to a loss of $0.01 per share in 2011.
For the six-month period these businesses reported earnings per share of $0.04 compared to $0.03 in the same period last year.
Next I'd like to touch on economic trends in our service area as shown on Slide 6.
We continue to see new business growth and expansion of existing businesses.
In the second quarter company's announced plans to invest $289 million with expectations of creating over 350 jobs in our South Carolina territory.
Our gas businesses in North Carolina also saw a promising quarter of economic announcements with companies projecting investment of $325 million and over 1 400 jobs.
We are pleased that this year is shaping out to be another solid year in terms of economic development in our territories.
On the heels of these major economic announcements unemployment rates remain stable.
Major businesses such as Boeing and Amazon that have located in our territory hiring employees quickly and we're pleased to see these recent industrial expansions translating into jobs.
We're also pleased with two recent developments related to the project to deepen the Port of Charleston.
The Army Corps of Engineers originally anticipated the project would take up to eight years to complete.
But a year into the project they have announced it could finish in five years.
In addition President Obama chose the Charleston Harbor deepening project as one of seven priority infrastructure projects nationwide.
This project will enable larger cargo ships to enter the harbor and is expected to faster economic growth.
This is key once the Panama Canal is deepened in 2014.
For the 12-month period ended June 30 2012 total weather normalized electric sales to residential customer were up approximately 0.6%.
Our commercial sales were relatively flat.
Industrial sales were down 1.4% primarily due to reduced production at one of our largest customers as a result of the fire we discussed last quarter.
We understand this customer's production will likely be limited for the majority of the year.
Were this customer's operations consistent with 2011 we estimate industrial sales would have increased approximately 3%.
As you can see on Slide 7 we continue to see improvement in customer growth at our major regulated subsidiaries.
For the last three quarters customer growth has trended higher in our electric businesses as well as our regulating gas businesses in South and North Carolina.
For June those rates were 0.8% 1.5% and 1.9% respectively.
We're encouraged by this trend.
Please turn to Slide 8 which sort our regulated rate base returns in South Carolina regulatory calendar.
The data on this slide represents information as of the date of our most recent regulatory filings.
The pie chart on the upper left represents the components of regulated rate base of $7.1 billion.
This is composed largely of SCE&amp;G electric with close to $6 billion in total electric investment as denoted in blue.
The chart to the right shows our actual and allowed regulatory returns for the period.
Our regulated gas business in North Carolina continues to earn a steady return due to customer growth in their territory and stable margins under the customer utilization tracker.
Return on our regularly gas business in South Carolina dropped slightly after the winter season.
In June we requested an increase of $8.8 million under the Annual Rate Stabilization Act adjustment.
This increase would bring the earned ROE for that business more closely in line with the allowed return of 10.25%.
As you are aware we recently found an application for our rate increase for our retail electric business which I will discuss more fully on the next slide.
That application reflected an earned return of 7.26%.
This reflects the full pro forma return considering all known and measurable adjustments as required when the case is filed.
Accordingly it is lower than our actual return to reflect annualized costs which aren't fully incorporated yet in the financials.
For example in the case we propose an adjustment to annualized depreciation expense.
As we've begun depreciating property at various points of the year our test year must be adjusted to capture a full year depreciation expense for those items.
The bottom of the slide includes the two timelines depicting our regulatory filing schedule for 2012.
As you can see in the first timeline we've completed all but one of our planned regulatory filings outside of the new nuclear project.
In November we will undergo the annual review of our gas fuel cost and SCE&amp;G.
The second timeline provides you with scheduled planned filings related to the new nuclear project.
In May we filed our quarterly status report and annual revised rates request related to the project.
The Regulatory Staff has audited our request for revised rates and we expect an order from the commission around the end of September.
When we make our filing for revised rates we do so on May 30.
But the period under review requires us to project our construction expenditures through the end of June.
So we have a portion of the filing that is actually a forecast.
When ORS does their audit they look at actual expenditures and the actual capital structure at June 30.
Generally that true-up result in a minor adjustment to our request to reflect the actual cost.
ORS submitted their report this week and recommended a final revenue increase of approximately $52 million.
In addition to these regular BLRA filings we filed a petition to update our nuclear budget and schedule which Steve will discuss in a few minutes.
We will file our next quarterly status report in mid-August.
Please now turn to Slide 9.
On June 29 we filed an application with the South Carolina PSC requesting an increase in our retail electric rates.
In this application we requested an allowed ROE of 10.95% and additional revenue of $151.5 million.
A significant portion of this increase is simply an extension of the previous rate case.
Out of this additional revenue we anticipate approximately $50 million would impact net income as the balance offsets new cost that will also be reflected in the financials.
For example in the last case we agreed not to include in rates.
Operating expenses is associated with the scrubber at Wateree station as it was not yet in service.
Instead those costs were deferred.
A portion of this case seeks recovery of that deferral prospectively.
Additionally we deferred increase pension cost related to the decline in market value of the related assets after the financial crises.
The remainder of the increase will offset expenses such as depreciation and property taxes.
In our application we asked that the new rates become effective on January 1 2013.
A hearing is scheduled for November and we anticipate receiving an order from the commission by the end of December.
Slide 10 presents our CapEx forecast.
This forecast is identical to the one we shared with you at our June Analyst Day events and reflects new nuclear spending as reported in our latest BLRA filing in May.
Please turn to Slide 11.
We have successfully completed all of our planned debt financings for 2012.
The remainder of this slide presents our estimated financing plan through 2017 and has not changed since our Analyst Day event.
We continue to anticipate drawing the remaining funds from our equity forward during the first quarter of 2013.
Now please turn to Slide 12.
We are affirming our earnings guidance of $3.05 to $3.25 per share.
The long-term outlook is unchanged as we plan to deliver 3% to 5% earnings growth over the three to five year period based on the 2010 weather normalized base of $2.92 per share.
Our guidance encompasses the impact of whether on our Georgia operations during the first quarter the impact of higher operating and maintenance expenses and base rate increases for our new nuclear filings under the BLRA and Gas RSA adjustments.
Our effective tax rate for 2011 was just over 30% and we estimate the rate for 2012 will be approximately 31%.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve to provide an update on our nuclear project.
Thanks Jimmy.
I'd now like to direct your attention to Slide 13.
We are pleased that our construction continues to move forward on our nuclear project.
The schedule continues to support commercial operation dates of March of 2017 for Unit 2 and May of 2018 for Unit 3.
We have made progress on several areas during the past quarter.
We continue to pour concrete in the Unit 2 excavation site.
Making progress on the switchyard and cooling towers.
The heavy lift derrick has been assembled tested and is ready for use.
Large component manufacture is progressing at sites around the world.
And Slide 14 shows two of those components at a facility in South Korea.
Parts continue to arrive at the Port Charleston before being transported to the site.
We have made extensive progress on the turbine island for Unit 2 the first new unit as you can see it on Slide number 15.
You can also see a portion of the heavy lift derrick which is the blue arm across the top of the picture.
The derrick is located between the excavation sites for the two new units.
This will allow it to be used to lift assembled modules and other heavy components and place them in the excavation site for either unit.
Circulating water pipe is in place as shown in the center of the page.
Slide also shows the containment vessel lower bowl.
Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron has completed welding of the lower bowl and is now welding the first ring section for that containment vessel which is shown on Slide number 16.
Slide 17 shows 230 000 volt transmission lines being connected to the switchyard which is nearing completion.
The construction is on scheduled to allow the switchyard to be energized in the first half of 2013.
This will allow us to back feed the project with power from the grid.
A final hearing for signing of transmission lines related to the new nuclear project will be held on August 22.
We were fortunate to be able to use existing rights-of-way for the vast majority of transmission lines from the new units.
Please turn now to Slide 18 which shows the nuclear island for Unit 2.
Over the last few months we have poured dental and leveling concrete using our on-site concrete batch plants.
This process has done well even while incurring record high temperatures.
We had anticipated the challenge of high temperatures and we're able to ship to schedules to allow the pours to be done in the evening when temperatures are not as extreme.
We have also begun installation of the waterproof membrane in the nuclear island.
After that is complete more high-strength concrete called mud mat is poured prior to installing the nuclear island rebar cage.
As of yesterday we installed the waterproof membrane and mud mat for about 75% of the nuclear island and placed about 40% of the rebar cage.
I know many of you have been interested on our rebar cage.
I will let you know that we are constructing our rebar cage to conform to the applicable concrete code and design certification document requirements.
And do not anticipate any additional delays to the rebar cage.
Once the rebar cage is fully in place we'll pour the six-foot thick nuclear island base mat and then set module CR10 on the base mat.
The CR10 module is currently being fabricated on site so that it will be ready when needed.
CR10 is a steel-frame support used to hold the lower bowl above the base mat until the foundation concrete is completed.
We anticipate setting the lower containment bowl later this year.
In summary the construction is progressing well and on track to achieve the amended completion dates.
Please turn now to Slide 19.
As you may remember in May we filed an application with the South Carolina Public Service Commission seeking to update our budget and schedule.
A new schedule sets the substantial completion dates for the units at March of 2017 and May of 2018.
The updated costs totaled $283 million and were primarily the result of delays in receipt of our license and agreement with Shawn Westinghouse related to challenge cost for the construction of our new nuclear units and additional owners cost or non-EPC costs for which we were responsible such as staffing information technology and facilities.
The hearing on our updated cost filing will be held in September.
We anticipate receiving an order from the commission on these items in mid-November.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll now be glad to respond to any questions you might have.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question will come from Travis Miller of Morningstar Securities.
Just wondering what the SCE&amp;G rate case what do you think the risk is there of a potential ROE cut given or interest rates have moved obviously? Any indications from anywhere either other utilities or other comments from the regulatory staff that could possibly lead to an ROE cut? Well let me first kind of define where we are.
Of course we filed the case as we say here at 10.95.
Our current rates are based on 10.7.
The only other benchmark that we really have is the most recent case from Duke Energy which I believe was completed last fall that was at 10.5.
So that's kind of the range of the numbers that we have today.
And just to give you some perspective on the 10.95 compared to the 10.7 that's obviously 25 basis points.
That's about $10 million per 25 basis points.
And one follow-up.
Do you think there is any risk of rate fatigue in there? You've gotten obviously the nuclear rate increases now this is for the second time in a couple of years and you've had a pretty sizeable base rate increase.
Did you get any indications of potential customer rate? Well a couple of comments on that.
First of all we've taken a fairly unusual step of offering a field decrease simultaneous with this rate increase that would offset roughly a third or more of the cost of it to the customer.
So we're trying to create a situation where we earn a reasonable return for investors to continue to attract the capital that we need to continue the development of the nuclear while at the same time appreciating the condition of customers and trying to keep their bill down.
After that reduction you've got an overall average increase of 3.5% 3.75% and that's after two years.
So that's pretty close to the rate of inflation we experienced over the last couple of years.
And having said that we're very aware that we continue to have the increases under the Base Load Review Act for the nuclear development and we have worked very hard to mitigate this increase and will work very hard to stay away as long as we can in the future.
Our next question will come from Jay Dobson of Wunderlich Securities.
Steve just a question on the agreement between and Shawn and Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron to merge just sort of practical implications from your roles perspective? We don't see any implications to our project from the proposed merger.
So if it goes forward we're aware of the fact that CB&amp;I management team will take over.
And we understand Jim Bernhard will be retiring.
We have experience with Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron.
As you probably heard a few minutes ago they are doing welding on our site for the containment vessel.
They are going to be on the site for another couple of years while they complete the ring sections.
And if you go back in time they actually manufactured the reactor vessel for our V.C.
Summer Unit number 1.
So we've got a long history with CB&amp;I.
So we think that it would be a good move.
We don't see any implications at the site to the merger.
And then Jimmy on retail sales if you can just give us a little more clarity.
I sensed a bit of optimism may be too strong of a word but a little bit of glimmer of hope that maybe things could be improving.
And I'm really thinking to start out into 2013 and I think a lot of us have thought maybe it would be flat.
Is there any hope with what you are seeing right now that trends are improving that we could see things start to improve from a retail sales perspective out in '13? Yes I think that's a real fair characterization.
And that's why we offered this additional chart on Page 7 in the slides to show the kind of consistent trend over the last three quarters in customer growth.
So I am encouraged by this it's just been so erratic over the last couple of years and it has continued even into the first six months.
To be more specific out of the six months this year three months sales have increased on a weather normal basis and three months they've been slightly lower.
Now net overall the increases have been larger but there has just been some variability and that is just too early to say there is a real definitive linear trend.
One thing that we have noticed lately though is that go back to a year ago and our overall growth rate in the electric business was about 0.5%.
And the growth in commercial customers was less than half of that which wouldn't surprise you in the recession.
The industrials led the way out residentials have started to follow behind.
And I have commented for a few quarters now that the commercials have lagged.
So they were about half the growth of residential.
But if you look at the same numbers today where our overall growth rate is about 0.8% on Page 7 the commercials are well in excess of that over 1%.
So that's a really interesting sign.
Now you'll notice in our overall commercial sales were relatively flat to last year.
So the analysis of that I'd take is that all the commercial customers are being very frugal in this difficult economy.
But more coming online and I'm encouraged by that continue to be encouragement by the industrial announcements we've focused on over the past year.
But I really liked it the middle market starting to come back some.
Our next question will comes from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Can you just give an update from the BLRA increase that you agreeing at last November or that readiness in the rates last November? How much of it have you taken to date? What's left to be taken between now and the next BLRA increase? On a dollar basis? Yes please? Michael I don't know if I have that at my figure tips.
The increase overall was about let's say about $52 million.
And then to effect in November of course we've got six months of that under our belt.
I just don't pro rate know how to tell you how much of that is in there because of the cyclical nature of the business.
I haven't given enough like that.
Can I just kind of use back for 52 million and it is mid-November to mid-November kind of assume $7 million $7.5 million $8 million a month and then kind of pro rate at that way or is it much more seasonal and cyclical based on the demand cycle? It is definitely based on the unit sales.
So it definitely varies based upon unit sales.
That's certainly something we can provide you in the future.
I've just not been asked it in the past so I don't have it at my finger tips.
And finally O&amp;M.
One of things you mentioned when talking about guidance the slight increase in O&amp;M.
You guys have been one of the better utilities about keeping O&amp;M really low.
Just curious are you seeing O&amp;M pressures that you haven't seen in the last couple of years or is this a little bit of O&amp;M catch-up going on? Not really broadly Michael.
It is really been isolated to kind of three categories.
And I have mentioned those in my comments a few minutes ago but just to expand upon it a little bit.
We had some small increase in planned expenses at some of the generating plants.
Healthcare has trended up.
We've been very effective the last four or five years through the end of 2011 in holding healthcare cost much lower than national averages but we've seen a bump this year.
We're hopeful that that's going to moderate for the balance of the year based upon some of the very recent data.
And then finally the main driver is really more of last year was lower than a normal period would have been.
And let me explain that and that's really driven by coming out of Fukushima issue last year and thus lowering our long-term earnings guidance from 4% to 6% to 3% to 5%.
Our stock took quite a hit.
And as a result all of our incentive comp plans that are equity based we didn't hit any of those targets.
So those two actions I just described happened in or near the end of the Q1 and all of that impact was in those plans by the end of Q2.
So we were hitting none of those targets and accruing none of that cost related to those benefit plans.
On the contrary this year you're well aware our stocks performed very well compared to the peers and we're getting some of that bounce back effect.
So last year we were accruing none of that cost.
This year we're slightly above our 100% targets because of the bounce back.
So it's kind of going in opposite directions.
Last question just when I look at the slide about the rate case.
Which of those items in that box had about $151 million? You mentioned the environmental deferral around the OpEx for the scrubber you mentioned the pension.
Which are the other ones are more forward-looking they weren't part of the historical test here? Well I think most of the others are forward-looking.
In other words I think you nailed it too that were really part of the prior case.
So the others really are things that have occurred since then property taxes have increased.
We've got the announcement of the retirement of the generating plants.
We've made additional investments into for reliability some of it mandated some of it our judgment that needed to be made and then depreciations increased.
So those other categories are all after the last case.
But these are as of the test year.
These aren't looking forward as a forecast to 2013? No exactly right.
These are all historical test year.
Only thing we do is just annualize everything up.
As of the end of the test year we annualize it at that point.
Our next question will come from David Paltz of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I just had a few questions on first can you just remind me the kilowatt sales growth that is embedded in your long-term EPS growth? Actually I might hand that off to Steve because that's really driven by IRP.
Do you have in memory Steve what the long-term growth is there? I don't have the kilowatt hour growth but we're looking somewhere in the 1% range.
So that net customer and usage growth? That would be the net kilowatt hour sales growth.
And then Jimmy regarding your comments on the expected rate relief assuming you got what you requested did you say the $50 million would be margin improvement or net income? Net income.
I'm sorry David that's pre-tax.
And then just taking a bigger picture I know you just filed this current electric rate case but do you expect to continue your historic rate case cycle I guess is what two to three years? It has been typically two to three years and that's been really something that in direction we received from the commission several years ago about coming more frequently for smaller cases.
Having said that we've got three significant years of construction in front of us with the nuclear plant and we're going to do everything within management's control to try to mitigate increases during that period.
We're hopeful that we get a reasonable return out of this case it doesn't push us back in there in the near term.
And that we can stay out longer because our goal would be able to stay out in the majority of that three year peak period while we go through the heavy construction.
And just one last question when do you plan to introduce 2013 guidance and address your long-term growth rate? Possibly at the Q3 call David.
But we'll kind of wait and see how the economy is going as well as obviously the other big if is what we were just discussing in this rate case.
So if we're well along the way or have something in a settlement around the rate case even though it would not be approved by the commissions at that point that would give us more confidence and we would lean towards announcing then.
If not we may hold off until the yearend call.
And back to your earlier question one other thought is I think really part of the solution and that all of us hope for I am sure and really being able to stay out longer is if the economy really starts coming back.
If some of these early trends really do develop that can help fund part of the need for additional capital for new services new lines etcetera.
And we're hopeful that will help to extend that period before we would have to go out and contribute additional return.
Our next question will come from John Hanson of Presidus.
How about an update as to situation with Santee and their options and how that's all going with some of the folks there in the regions as we say? Santee as you're aware is looking to divest itself with some of their ownership percentage.
Currently they are 45% owner in the project.
They still are committed to nuclear and want to be an owner.
They just want to own a little less than 45%.
They currently are as we understand it in negotiations with three entities the one that gets most of the headlines in this area is Duke.
So they are in negotiations with Duke to sell a portion of it and as you're aware they've signed some letters of intent that should lead to ownership percentages.
But they're also still pursuing a deal with AMP and with South Mississippi.
The AMP is in Ohio right? That's correct.
And then they did have one with one of the Florida munis and something that that didn't has evolved or didn't pan out.
I didn't see them on your list that you had at your Analyst Day Steve? I think if you go back to a couple of years they did have two entities in Florida and I believe they are both public power entities in Florida that have since dropped off their list and that's when they picked up the new public power entities of South Mississippi and AMP.
What do you feel for the new Duke in terms of what they may think about this? So far SCE&amp;G has not been involved in any negotiations with the new Duke.
So I don't know how the new Duke will feel about it but we don't have any reason to believe they're going to feel any differently about it than the folks who we were dealing with before.
And our understanding is that the people that we will be dealing with are the same folks that we had dealt with previously in these discussions.
So since Santee has not let us known any changes in negotiation strategy because of course the merger is not complete.
Do they have any deadlines at all or not? I think in some of their letters of intent they do have some deadlines.
But again this Santee's sale and it's there to piece to unload.
So I am not aware of what those deadlines are at the top of my head.
Our next question will come from Ashar Khan of Visium.
Jimmy I'm just trying to give some assumptions based on the data that you've provided and some based on the results so if you can just bear with me.
First of all is the earnings improvement coming this year is all because of the electric nuclear stuff and are you losing ROE on the non-nuclear stuff.
Is that a fair point or no? Well I think certainly there is margin from the new nuclear but there is margin from the Rate Stabilization Act at the LDC in South Carolina.
There is increased margin from growth in the North Carolina customer base.
So I don't think you can say it's all from nuclear.
But I'd say in the second quarter a substantial amount was driven by this bump in the economy that we discussed a few questions ago and that contributed to this Q2 growth.
Well what I referring to was this chart that you have I guess on Page 8 which gives the 7.26% ROE if I'm right? It is based as of March 31 2012.
Right.
Based on your objective of the $3.17 which is your internal target for the year.
We expect that nuclear is going to be at 11% because that's what's granted and everything.
Where will you end up this year based on that target on the non-nuclear with the 7.26? Where should we be looking for that number for 2012 based on the $3.17 guidance internal target? First of all let me try to clear something up.
First the 7.26 is not our actual earned return as I have attempted to really give some examples in my prepared comments earlier.
7.26 is the pro forma return at the end of the test year.
So what we've done at the end of the test year is take all known and measurable cost that are there at the end of the year.
For example if we began depreciating a large piece of equipment in the twelfth month we only have one-twelfth of the cost in that test year so when the pro forma at end we will include the other 11 months and that will drop the return down.
But what would this number be if you had all this year's earnings and even if this was like pro forma for 12/31/2012? Well that's where I would say that the number we gave you at the end of Q1 was 8.86% that's not changed a great deal as of today.
And I don't know of anything that's going to change it to great deal between now and the end of the year.
So we're earning in that 8.75% to 9% range at this point unless you pro forma in this full year cost.
So eventually it's going to drift all the way down to the 7.26 once you get full years of those additional pro forma costs.
But I would say now it's somewhere in the 8.5 range.
So the process in South Carolina requires that you don't file the interim surveillance reports after you file the rate case you simply file the rate case with all of your pro formas and you don't file any interim reports in the meantime until the case is resolved.
Jimmy what I was trying to do and I don't know if you can help me assume and these are all assumptions.
So just wanted to see how I'm trying to do next year's earnings.
If say you get a 10% and you're able to earn a 10% ROE this is my assumption theoretically for a conversation basis.
If you are able to earn a 10% ROE in 2013 the next year will the delta be from the 7.26 to going to go into 10 or will the delta be from the 8.75 going to 10? Depends upon when you measure that.
If you measured it at the end of the first quarter it'd be 8.86.
If you measured it at the end of the year and the commission agreed with all of our pro formas it would be 7.26.
So I understand what you're trying to accomplish.
I think the only way I can really respond is to say that we've provided our guidance.
We reaffirmed that today.
So we've given you our internal target and our long term growth rates.
And we think those are all reasonable and if you want to make some sensitivity adjustments off that that's also why I provided the 100 basis points of ROE is about $40 million.
So if you wanted to make some adjustments.
So if I am using that next year you should be able to improve like 200 basis points that would be that you are earning more like 9.26 next year on an ROE basis on a pro forma basis in '13 right? So that's really one should use as a base is the 7.26 for 2012? Yes but it's not that simple because it really depends upon on what conclusion the ORS and the commission comes to as it relates to the various pro formas we've included.
So for example we have proposed certain amortization periods on this pension costs.
Well they may decide on different amortization periods.
And so that would change the expense and maybe stretch it out over a longer period of time.
So I'm not trying to be evasive but it's just almost impossible for me to answer.
But that would of course not allow you to run from your allowed ROE of 10% rate if you drag things down right? Whatever they don't do or whatever the number you get you've asked for a higher number and whatever that give you.
And then there could be other stuff which might not allow you to earn the allowed ROE as part of it right? That's what you are saying right? Well yes and no.
As it relates to ROE if there is a lower number that's going to impact our earnings for sure.
If it relates to an expense item and they determine that it should be amortized over a longer period and the expense will go down and the requested income will go down by a commensurate amount.
So we would have no impact on net income or earned return.
But just to end up Jimmy because as you said you won't be filing rate cases every year.
I guess the year where you get a rate case decision earnings should be much higher and then they leveragize because you're not filing any increases for a year or so.
Right? So there would like bumps in earnings and I know you're going to offset it somewhat with the share increase coming in but one can assume that earnings should be increasing on in a more percentage basis in a year where there is a rate increase.
Is that that fair to assume? Yes there is always a lumpiness in our business because of the need for rate increases in just certain periods but there are contributors.
A lot of our growth is driven off the BLRA is driven off of the contribution from the other gas businesses and that's going to come back to how well the economy grows there too.
I am showing no additional questions in the queue.
I would like to turn the call back to Jimmy Addison for his closing remarks.
Thank you.
To summarize we are pleased with our results for the second quarter.
Weather normalized mechanisms continue to mitigate the impacts of weather on our margins and construction of our nuclear project continues to move forward.
We'll certainly be focused on our regulatory proceedings during the balance of the year and we'll update you as these matters progress.
We thank you for joining us today and for your interest in SCANA.
Ladies and gentlemen the conference has now concluded.
We thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
My name is Denise and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Tuesday November 6 2012.
Anyone who does not consent to the taping may drop off the line.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Byron Hinson Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Financial Planning and Investor Relations</strong> Thank you.
I’d like to welcome everyone to our earnings conference call including those who are joining us on the webcast.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the third quarter of 2012.
Joining us on the call today are Jimmy Addison SCANA's Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer of SCE&amp;G.
During the call Jimmy will provide an overview of our financial results economic development in our service territory and regulatory activity including an update on our base rate case for our electric business.
Additionally Steve will provide an update on our new nuclear project including the recently approved annual rate increase from the Base Load Review Act or BLRA our current new nuclear hearing as well as the current refueling outage of V.C.
Summer Nuclear Station.
After those comments we will respond to your questions.
The slides and the earnings release referred to in this call are available at scana.com.
Before I turn the call over to Jimmy I would like to remind you that certain statements that maybe made during today's call are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as shown on slide two.
The company does not recognize an obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Additionally we will disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation and the required Reg G information can be found in the slides used in conjunction with this call.
I'll now turn the call over to Jimmy.
Thanks Byron.
I would like to start by saying to all of you in the path of Sandy that you are in our thoughts and prayers.
And continuing with our tradition of providing resources through our mutual assistance arrangements coordinated through the Southeastern Electric Exchange we have already sent both utility construction and three crews to the affected areas.
And we are prepared to send additional resources as directed as part of this coordinated effort to assist those in need.
I will begin our earnings discussion on slide three.
Basics earnings per share were $0.93 for the third quarter of 2012 versus $0.81 in 2011.
Electric margins were higher due to customer growth and base rate increases under the Base Load Review Act.
These margins were partially offset by the cost of our capital program depreciation interest expense as well as share dilution.
Gas margins were also higher due to customer growth and the rate increase under the Rate Stabilization Act.
Operating and maintenance expenses were slightly lower during the third quarter of 2012 than in the same period of 2011.
We still forecast operating and maintenance expenses to be slightly higher for the full year compared to 2011.
We also expect a modest trend to continue into 2013 as we continue to see increases in the costs to operate our systems safely and reliably.
Please turn to slide four.
As you can see basic earnings per share for the nine months ended September 30 2012 were $2.41 versus $2.25 in 2011.
Increases in electric margin were partially offset by lower gas margins in Georgia due to the mild weather in the first quarter along with higher operating and maintenance expenses and higher expenses related to our capital program specifically depreciation property taxes interest and share dilution.
And now on slide five I’d like to review results for our principal lines of business.
South Carolina Electric &amp; Gas Company’s 2012 third quarter basic earnings per share denoted in blue were $1.1 an increase of $0.09 over the third quarter of 2011.
Electric and gas margins were higher due primarily to increases under the Base Load Review Act and the Rate Stabilization Act coupled with customer growth.
This increase in margin was offset by higher interest expense depreciation as well as share dilution.
Year-to-date basic earnings were higher about $0.20 due primarily to higher electric and gas margins.
PSNC Energy shown in red reported a seasonal loss of $0.03 per share for the third quarter of 2012 consistent with 2011.
Increases in margin due to customer growth were offset by higher depreciation and interest expense.
For the nine month period ended September 30 2012 basic earnings were $0.21 per share again consistent with the prior year.
SCANA Energy in green reported a seasonal loss of $0.03 per share for the third quarter of 2012 also consistent with 2011.
Year-to-date earnings were down approximately $0.09 due to the impact of mild weather in the first quarter.
Our corporate and other businesses reported a loss for the quarter of $0.02 per share compared to a loss of $0.05 per share in 2011.
For the nine month period these businesses reported earnings per share of $0.03 compared to a loss of $0.02 in the same period in the prior year.
The results for 2011 reflect a slightly higher quarterly effective income tax rate at the holding company while 2012 results also reflect revenue growth at our interstate pipeline business due to lower natural gas cost.
Next I would like to touch on economic trends in our service area as shown on slide six.
We continued to be encouraged by the level of economic development in our territories with approximately $1 billion invested in the Carolinas this year.
Housing is also encouraging.
While we still have not returned to pre-recession levels we are seeing improvement in each of the areas we serve as you see in the chart at the bottom left.
Additionally SCE&amp;G’s territory which is heavily concentrated in the Charleston and Columbia metro areas has not been as volatile as the rest of the Southeast.
In the bottom right you can find our current – customer growth percentages.
We continued to be encouraged by the growth in our customer base.
Customer growth has slowed slightly in our electric business during the quarter as it’s typical.
We tend to see slower electric customer growth during the third and fourth quarters of the year.
For the 12-month period ended September 30 2012 total weather normalized electric sales to residential and commercial customers were up approximately 1% and 0.4% respectively.
Industrial sales were down approximately 2.6% primarily due to reduced production at one of our largest customers as a result of a fire as we have discussed in prior quarters.
This customer was brought back on line earlier this month.
Where the customer’s operation is consistent with 2011 we estimate overall industrial sales would have increased approximately 1.4%.
In addition the Port of Charleston continues to see increased traffic with customer volume up 12% this quarter over the prior year.
As I mentioned before it is estimated that one in every five jobs in South Carolina is related to Port volume.
Please turn now to slide seven which sets forth our regulated rate base returns in South Carolina regulatory calendar.
The data on the slide represents information as of the date of our most recent regulatory filings.
The pie chart on the upper left presents the components of our regulated rate base of over $7.5 billion as of June 30.
This is composed largely of SCE&amp;G electric with approximately $6.4 billion and total electric investment as denoted in two shades of blue.
As Steve will discuss the Public Service Commission of South Carolina recently approved the fifth consecutive rate increase under the Base Load Review Act.
The chart to the right shows our actual and allowed regulatory returns for the period not much has changed here.
Our regulated gas business in North Carolina continues to earn a steady return due to customer growth in their territory and stable margins under the customer utilization tracker.
The return on our regulated gas business in South Carolina dropped slightly after the winter season.
However the Public Service Commission of South Carolina recently issued an order or a rate increase of $7.5 million under the Annual Rate Stabilization Act.
This increase should bring the earned ROE for that business more closely in line with the allowed return of 10.25%.
As you are aware in June of 2012 we filed an application for rate increase for our retail electric business which I will discuss to a greater extent on the next slide.
That application reflected a return of 7.26%.
This reflects the full pro forma return considering all known and measurable adjustments as required when the case is filed.
The bottom of the slide includes the timeline depicting our regulatory filing schedule for 2012 outside of the new nuclear project.
As you can see in the timeline we have completed all but one of our planned regulatory filings.
In November we will undergo the annual review of our gas fuel cost at SCE&amp;G.
Please turn now to slide eight.
On June 29 we filed an application with the Public Service Commission requesting an increase in our retail electric rates.
In this application we requested an allowed ROE of 10.95% and additional revenue of $151.5 million.
We filed our testimony on October 2 in the Office of Regulatory Staff and other interveners filed their testimony last Friday.
We are constructively engaged with ORS and the other interveners in hopes of reaching a settlement by hearing a schedule for November 27 and we anticipate receiving an order from the commission in late December as new rates are effective January 2013.
Slide nine presents our CapEx forecast.
This forecast reflects new nuclear spending as reported in our latest BLRA quarterly report from August which includes amounts as of the second quarter of 2012.
We will update these amounts with our next quarterly filing in mid-November to include changes in AFC escalation and construction activities.
Otherwise this slide is identical to the CapEx forecast we shared during our second quarter earnings call.
Also as you can see along the bottom of the slide and due to your request we have included our anticipated incremental nuclear CWIP as of June 30 of each year.
This represents the incremental CWIP from July 1 through June 30 for each period on which the BLRA increases are calculated.
As you will note the amounts are nearly the same as the calendar period CWIP that we have previously provided.
Please turn to slide 10 to review our financing plan which is consistent with our last earnings call.
We have successfully completed all of our planned debt financings for 2012 and our estimated financing plan through 2017 remains unchanged.
We continued to anticipate drawing the remaining funds from our equity forward during the first quarter of 2013 resulting in the issuance of approximately 6.6 million shares.
As presented on slide 11 we are tightening our guidance for the year to $3.10 to $3.25 in basic earnings per share.
We estimate our effective tax rate for 2012 will be approximately 30%.
Our long-term outlook remains unchanged as we plan to deliver 3% to 5% earnings growth over the 3- to 5-year period based on 2010 weather normalized base of $2.92 per share.
While we have seen positive economic signs in our territory we remain conservative about customer growth and usage.
While weather normalized sales are up over the last 12 months the monthly change versus the prior year has been inconsistent.
Finally on slide 12 we are very pleased to report earlier this month we successfully completed the syndication of an expanded and extended credit facility.
The additional liquidity is important to our nuclear construction and the tenure spans substantially all of the planned peak construction period of the new units.
The committed lines of credit now total $1.8 billion with $1.6 billion covering the entire five years and an additional $200 million over the three years for added peak construction liquidity.
I would like to thank our banks for their enthusiastic support of our liquidity needs and support of our nuclear expansion plants.
We are pleased that we have received an excellent response for our nuclear construction from our equity and debt investors as well as our banks.
I will now turn the call over to Steve to provide an update on our nuclear project.
Thanks Jimmy.
I would now like to direct your attention to slide 13.
We are pleased the construction continues to move forward on our nuclear project.
The schedule continues to support commercial operation dates of March of 2017 for Unit 2 and May of 2018 for Unit 3.
We have made progress in several years during the past quarter.
We completed the installation of the Unit 2 rebar cage assembly poured 30 000 cubic yards of nuclear concrete and begun fabricating the walls of the turbine building.
We also continue to make progress on the switchyard and cooling towers and have begun training operators for the two new nuclear facilities.
The heavy lift derrick has been assembled tested and is currently in use.
Large component manufacture continues to progress at sites around the world.
And slide 14 shows two of those components at our facility in South Korea.
The reactor vessel has completed testing and is expected to be received on-site early in 2013.
The steam generators for Unit 2 are scheduled to be tested around year-end and expected to be delivered early next year.
Please turn now to slide 15 which shows the progress of the nuclear island for Unit 2 throughout the year.
Over the past months we have completed the installation of leveling concrete and the waterproof membrane which is same as between a lower mud-mat and higher strength upper mud-mat.
We also completed the installation of our rebar cage on top of the mud-mats.
Our next step will be to pour base mat which will be the foundation of the nuclear island.
On this six-foot thick nuclear island base mat we will the CR-10 module as pictured on slide 16.
CR-10 module is nearing completion and has been fabricated on-site.
As you might recall the CR-10 has a steel frame support used to hold the lower bowl above the base mat until the foundation concrete is completed.
We anticipate setting the lower containment bowl later this year or early next year.
So in summary the construction is progressing well and on track to achieve the amended completion date.
On slide 17 we review our new nuclear and Base Load Review Act filings as related – and related rate increases.
As we mentioned in our second quarter call we filed our annual request for revised rates under the Base Load Review Act in May.
In response of that request in September the Public Service Commission of South Carolina approved an increase of $52.1 million.
The new rates were effective for bills rendered on and after October 30th.
This is the fifth rate increase under the BLRA.
We continued to be pleased that the mechanism is working as designed.
Our BLRA filings for 2012 are shown in the bottom of the slide.
And as you can see on August 14th we filed our quarterly status report on our new nuclear project with the Commission and the Office of Regulatory Staff for the second quarter of 2012.
This report provided a detailed update of capital cost incurred and updated milestones for our new nuclear project and is available on our website.
We intend to file our quarterly status report for the third quarter of 2012 in November.
As you may remember in May we filed an application with the Public Service Commission seeking to update our budget and schedule.
A new schedule set the substantial completion dates for the units at March of 2017 and May of 2018.
The updated costs totaled $283 million and were primarily the result of delays in receipt of our license and agreement with Shaw and Westinghouse related to challenged costs for the construction of our two new nuclear units transmission costs and additional owners costs or a non-EPC cost for which we are responsible such as staffing information technology and facilities.
The hearing for this filing was held on October the 2nd and 3rd.
During the hearing we provided the Commission with an update on the project and presented evidence that our decision to pursue nuclear generation remains prudent.
We anticipate receiving an order from the Commission on these items in mid-November.
On slide 18 you’ll see a picture of Unit 1 at V.C.
Summer Nuclear Station.
On October the 12th we took Unit 1 offline to begin a scheduled refueling outage.
The outage follows an 18-month operating cycle and is the 20th for V.C.
Summer since the station began commercial operation in 1984.
The outage allows us to replace one-third of V.C.
Summer’s 157 uranium fuel assemblies and to perform preventive maintenance work that cannot be performed when the reactor is operating.
During this outage we performed a planned inspection of the reactor vessel head.
This inspection is designed to find minor defects which allowed timely repairs and prevents an actual problem.
The reactor vessel head contains a total of 66 penetrations which are mostly used to maneuver control rods in the reactor.
As a result of this inspection we identified welds for four of those penetrations that need repair.
An extensive robotic inspection of the reactor vessel showed there was no leakage from these areas as a result of the condition of the welds.
We notified the Nuclear Regulatory Commission as required and developed a strategy to repair the welds.
These repairs have been made successfully at other nuclear facilities.
As part of the planning for this inspection V.C.
Summer and Westinghouse personnel developed a detailed contingency plan if repairs were needed.
We will now execute this plan.
Our focus is on completing the repair safely during the outage before returning the reactor to service.
We are pleased to announce that the beginning of this scheduled outage marks the end of the first breaker-to-breaker cycle in the history of V.C.
Summer.
A breaker-to-breaker run is an industry term recognizing a plant that operates continuously between refueling outages and only occurs when the plant reliability is very high.
V.C.
Summer was connected to the grid for 501 continuous days which also set energy production records for the station.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We will now be glad to respond to any questions you might have.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) And the first question will come from Travis Miller of Morningstar Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Wanted some more detail on conversation you’ve had perhaps with regulators or other outside parties on the rate case and particularly the ROE elements what are the sticking points? What are the pros and cons that you’ve heard and obviously with interest rates where they are in some other allowed ROEs we have seen over the couple months that 10.95% appears quite high relative to peers and other financial metrics? Can you just discuss kind of again the pros and construction what the other people involved in the case are thinking along those lines? Well sure to the extent I can of course.
What we have filed we believe is very defensible.
When you look at the some of the peers it’s difficult to get apples-to-apples.
Some of our peers have prospective forward-looking test years.
We have a historical test year.
So as I have said before by the time we start off with new rates it’s very difficult to get within 50 basis points of the ROE just because of the historical nature of the test year and the attrition that occurs.
Some of the other peers have more mechanisms if you will around environmental matters and things like that than we do.
So you really got to be careful when you just compare numbers from across the country because I think ours are more pure.
And I think those are the kinds of factors that the commissions here in the Southeast have taken into consideration when they have granted ROEs in the past.
And of course very few of our peers in fact one is building new nuclear at the same time we do which brings increased risk as well.
So those would be the primary factors that I would suggest differentiate us.
Well what are the elements in the rate case aside from the ROE that you are looking at in the settlement where I suppose again we are part of the most contentious issues are the ones that the other parties in the potential settlement want some clarity on? Well I am going to protect the confidentiality of those discussions as I have to or else it would deteriorate into never reaching a settlement most likely but all parties are attempting to do that so we are working hard about it.
Let me just frame it by saying that the commission has a practice that they like to have any settlements presented to them at least a week before the beginning of the hearing.
So they have got ample time to consider this settlement when they are hearing the testimony from the various parties.
So that essentially means we have got the next two weeks this week next week to try to work something out and we are trying.
And I am encouraged by the party’s participation and I think everyone is serious about it.
I don’t know that there are any other significant items that would have as large of an impact particularly on earnings as would ROE.
So that’s certainly a significant item but there are other items too.
For example we have got some deferred costs related to the scrubber that we installed at the Wateree Station that was not completely in service at the time of our last increase about 2.5 years ago.
So we agreed to defer that until this time.
So one of the items that will be up for discussion is what amortization period do you collect that deferral over.
So there is differences in opinions over that and that will go into the judgment.
That’s just an example.
Great.
Thanks a lot for the detail.
Sure.
(Operator Instructions) The next question will come from Dan Jenkins of State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Going back to the rate case I’m think you had said that staff and interveners have filed their testimony already that’s correct right? It is that’s true.
So what did they recommend in terms of an ROE? Well there is variety of recommendations.
The ORS recommended 10.25% and some of the other parties that made other lower recommendations and of course ours was at 10.95%.
So you’ve got ranging from anywhere in the 9.5 or so percent range to our 10.95%.
The lowest was 9.5%? Yeah I don’t know precisely what the lowest but was in that range.
Okay and then you talked about deferral period so are other any other big issues that particularly the staff brought up other than that and ROE? I don’t recall any other significant issues those are the most significant.
Okay and then you mentioned that you found some – during the inspection of Summer 1 that there is going be some repairs on the welds so I was wondering do you have a sense yet for how long the outage is going to be then at that unit? Yeah Dan it’s Steve.
We anticipate that we’re going to add about somewhere between two and three weeks to outage scope.
Okay and what was the original plan? Original was around 40 days so we ought to have the unit back on somewhere in the first or second week of December.
Okay and then I was wondering if you could give us just a little more color on what you’re seeing in your service territory from industrial sector I know you mentioned that you have that customer with the fire comeback on line but beyond that and given that you’ve had a number of new like the Boeing plant stuff like that what we see…? We’ve had – 2011 was an extremely strong year.
The announcements have been slower this year but what’s occurring now is some of the announcements what were made in the past of course were starting to materialize now.
One of the more significant ones of those is a pharmaceutical manufacturer that’s locating a facility in fact just cross the interstate here from our corporate headquarters and they are looking to add about 700 jobs or so very very good jobs in the $70 000 to $80 000 range.
So we’re seeing the lot of these kind of coming into fruition now so while the announcements aren’t as much that’s encouraging.
And overall and as I said earlier industrial sales if this one industrial customer were at full level would be up about 1.5% on a weather normal basis.
Okay and then my last questions relates to your financing plan and I was wondering where you stand related to potential loans from the DOE? Yeah we’re – the position really hasn’t changed there Dan.
We continued to communicate with the DOE but as we’ve constructed this project from the beginning to be financed with public debt and equity and that has been supported very well to-date and as I said earlier supported by the banks tremendously in renewing and raising our credit facility.
So this point we don’t envisioning – envision participating in that although if things could change down the road.
Okay.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
And our next question will come from Ashar Khan of Visium.
Please go ahead.
Hi how are doing? Good.
I just wanted to go over I guess the guidance where it comes out I guess you have it.
As you – Jimmy as we look at next year because you don’t file rate cases on electric side so often.
And we will get double whammy right.
We will have the BLRA increase which has happened.
And I guess ‘13 ‘14 ‘15 are big high CapEx and rate base years.
But then you will also have your rate increase which is coming in I believe effective January 1.
So as we look at it shouldn’t earnings be growing at higher than the – your range that you have forecasted because the rate case is going to expound the results with the release? Is that a fair assumption as we look at 2013 that the earnings should be higher than the top end of the range that you have mentioned as part of the long-term? Well two things.
First of all we are still comfortable with the range if there becomes a point that we think that range is inaccurate we’ll certainly update the range for you but secondly there is no certainty yet around the rate case.
So normally we like to provide the following year guidance on this call and we are just not in position to do that this year because of such a significant variance variable factor that is with the rate case.
So we are going to need to wait until our year end call to do that but we are still comfortable with the range at this point.
Yeah Jimmy you didn’t understand my question.
My question is on the range is long-term range it’s not a one-year range if I am right the way I look at your range unless you can correct me? You are correct.
Okay.
You are correct.
Okay.
So that’s the number one assumption okay.
Second I am saying is because you don’t file rate cases every year that the year that you have a rate case decision coming pending and it’s a pretty hefty rate case.
Shouldn’t you be above that range because of a double whammy effect of the BLRA and the rate case? So you should technically be higher than the range and of course the range will go down some years and everything but technically you should be higher on that range next year? I think I do understand your question but I don’t believe that to be the case.
Of course the rate case there is a lots of expenses that come along with that case too if you were listening earlier and I was talking about the amortization period.
There will be revenue associated with that amortization but there will be a dollar in expense for every dollar in revenue associated with it too.
So that will create no margins no earnings at all that’s simply a dollar for dollar wash in collecting the cash that we have already spent.
So and I know you are aware that.
That’s just one example.
But I really don’t think that will be the case next year.
Okay thank you.
You are welcome.
(Operator Instructions) The next question will be from Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
Please go ahead.
Hi how are you doing? Good Paul.
I’m just – most of my stuff was asked but the litigation or excuse me disagreements with contractors or anything do you guys I am sorry if I understood it’s been a crazy morning.
Is there any issue there that you’d like to talk about or you could describe like you see it obviously with another company that’s building a nuclear plant? Yeah Paul this is Steve.
I think I can’t speak to that other company.
Sure.
Building the nuclear plant and what their disagreements may or may not be but we have had some disagreements with our contractors that we have negotiated and settled.
That settlement was made earlier this year and the expenses associated with that settlement were included in the Base Load Review Act update filing that we made and presented to our Public Service Commission in early October.
So we’ve settled those disputes from our perspective without having to go the litigation round.
Okay.
Nothing new was developed since then right? We have nothing new that we are aware of.
Okay.
And could you give us a feeling as to – and I apologize if just I can’t recall right now what the total amount was that you guys settled on? Yeah we – the amount to SCE&amp;G in that settlement with Shaw and Westinghouse was $138 million.
Okay.
And that… That’s our 55% piece.
That’s what you got.
Okay that’s your 55% piece.
And what was the total amount that was in disagreement? Sorry to touch on this spot if you don’t want to come back to me that’s okay.
Yeah I am trying to remember what the total was.
It was something I believe just short of $400 million.
It was in that range anyway.
And that was the total amount or just the amount that was SCE&amp;G’s disputed amount? I think that $400 millionish was the total amount.
Okay.
And then with respect to the economy and stuff it looks like you guys are on a 12-month running basis it’s coming up it’s improving anymore sort of outlook or flavor you could give for us on that? No it is up across all categories on a 12-month basis residential up about 1% commercial up about 0.5%.
And then industrial if you pro forma in a full year run-rate for that one customer I mentioned it would be up almost 1.5% also.
So things continued to go well there.
I hear from the commerce folks here in South Carolina that there are lot of things pending they are just not ready for announcement yet.
I also have mentioned earlier I think port traffic at the Port of Charleston was up significantly in Q3 up over 10% year-over-year and that is a significant factor in South Carolina as it is such a heavy driver in the economy.
Okay.
And is there any change in usage patterns or anything else that you are detecting there I mean obviously the economy is doing better than everything but is it coming in pretty much as you expected or any thought on that? Yeah.
I’d say if anything Paul it’s slightly on the upside.
We have been fairly conservative just because of the erratic nature of it.
I would say its still – still not a linear trend so we have still got to kind of keep our fingers crossed on the thing but as a whole I would say things are looking a little better than we had expected earlier in the year.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
You are welcome.
The next question will come from David Paz of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hello good morning.
Hello David.
Just actually following up on the last question when you said that residential power sales were up about 1% are you referring to a weather adjusted number? That’s correct.
So commercial diesel was 1.5% as well and there is not a lot of weather there? Yeah.
Commercial is about a 0.5% where industrial would be about 1.5% if you included a full year comparable period for that one industrial customer that was down due to the fire.
Alright great thanks.
And then picking up on actually Ashar’s question can I just get a sense I think you've said this in the past but remind me how much incremental pre-tax margin would come from your requested rate increase net of all the costs? Yeah based on what was filed about $50 million.
That’s pre-tax.
After-tax.
After tax okay I want to confirm that.
Thanks.
And then in looking at the ORS’ recommendation do you happen to know what are the difference between their recommendation and your request how much of that is associated with the differing ROEs on a dollar basis? Well that’s 74 basis points that’s about 30 little over $30 million $30 $32 million.
Got it great.
And actually going back to Q4 ‘11 can you remind me was there any weather benefit or hit that you guys experienced in that quarter? David let me back up your last question first to be sure I am clear because we are talking after-tax and then pre-tax numbers.
The last information I gave you about the $30 million or so that’s pre-tax.
Pre-tax right? Yeah.
So the earlier one was after-tax the 50 and that ROE estimate was pre-tax.
Perfect.
Yeah and… So you asked about weather? The weather impact in Q4 ’11? Q4 ‘11 would be Georgia really… Actually normal.
Slightly milder normal I believe but I don’t have that at my fingertips David.
Alright no problem.
I can follow-up later.
And then just the last on O&amp;M in your script you have talked – you touched on O&amp;M I think you’ve said that you expected O&amp;M to slightly or modestly increase full year ‘12 versus full year ‘11.
I guess can you confirm that and is that the actual O&amp;M that you see this year or is that based on the pro forma you included in the rate cases just want to get a sense of? Right.
You see the actual that we are seeing this year so I think year-to-date it’s in the 1.5% to 2% range up.
So something around that would be what we would expect for the full year and of course those that come in as part of the rate case those new expenses would not go into effect until January of ‘13 when the revenue accompanied them.
Right.
And I think you said about that you would see some of that trend go into ‘13 is that should we see roughly same percentage basis or would it….
Yeah I think something in the 1% to 2% range would be the best ballpark.
Of course that can change a lot just based on this earlier discussion we had about these amortization periods.
Got it.
Okay great.
Thanks so much.
But there will be no margin impact from that once you’ve shorter period more revenue longer period and less revenue.
Right right alright.
Thanks again.
You’re welcome.
Ladies and gentlemen this will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Addison for any closing remarks.
Well thank you.
And just to summarize we are pleased with our results for the third quarter.
And while customer growth and rate mechanisms continue to drive the margins we maintain our focus on containing operation and maintenance cost and construction of our new nuclear project continues to move forward.
We thank you for joining us today and for your interest in SCANA.
Ladies and gentlemen the conference has now concluded.
We thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation conference call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Thursday February 21 2013.
Anyone who does not consent to the taping may drop off the line.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Byron Hinson Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Thank you and welcome to our earnings conference call including those who are joining us on the webcast.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2012.
Joining us on the call today are Kevin Marsh Chairman and CEO of SCANA; Jimmy Addison SCANA's Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer of SCE&amp;G.
During the call Kevin will make opening comments and Jimmy will provide an overview of our financial results economic development in our service territory regulatory activity and earnings guidance for 2013.
Additionally Steve will provide an update on our new nuclear project.
After those comments we will respond to your questions.
The slides and the earnings release referred to in this call are available at SCANA.com.
Before I turn the call over to Kevin I would like to remind you that certain statements that may be made during today's call are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as shown on Slide 2.
The company does not recognize an obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Additionally we may disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation and the required Reg G information can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website.
I'll now turn the call over to Kevin.
Thanks Byron and I'll begin on Slide 3.
SCANA had a very good year in 2012 both financially and operationally and Jimmy and Steve will speak to those accomplishments in just a few minutes.
Like most businesses we had plenty of opportunities and challenges during the year to keep our team busy.
Early in the year we developed and then executed a multifaceted strategy to overcome the challenges of the extremely mild weather that impacted our natural gas marketing business in Georgia.
Additionally the new nuclear team received our combined operating license from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and made substantive progress on the construction of the 2 new plants.
Last year we completed a comprehensive analysis of each business unit through our robust strategic planning process that allows our management team to focus on significant issues and to execute.
One example of a positive outcome of the strategic planning process is our decision to consolidate the leadership of all our regulated natural gas operations under one leader.
Rusty Harris who previously served as President of PSNC Energy in North Carolina is now leading this combined group as President of SCANA's natural gas operations.
You may remember Rusty from our Analyst Day presentations last year.
As a company our strong financial and operational results are reflected in our total return to shareholders which outperformed the majority of our peers in 2012.
Yesterday we announced an increase in our annual dividend rate further contributing to shareholder return.
Several years ago I was on the earnings call when we announced we were lowering our growth rate.
We monitored the economic impact of the recession over the last 24 months and we're more confident in the economic environment today than we were in 2011.
Unemployment in our service area has improved by nearly 200 basis points and customer growth also continues to improve.
As a result today I am pleased to tell you that we are increasing our growth rate.
As Jimmy will discuss shortly we are raising the upper band of our long-term growth rate from 5% to 6%.
Our new growth target will therefore be 3% to 6% over a 3- to 5-year period reflecting our more optimistic view while acknowledging some volatility in margin growth.
We are now focused on executing our 2013 plan to achieve this goal.
Jimmy and Steve will now lead you through a discussion of our 2012 results and areas of focus for 2013.
Obviously one of our primary areas of focus will continue to be our new nuclear project.
We are entering a period of peak construction spending and focusing on successful execution will continue to be paramount.
I'm confident we have a qualified team in place that will be able to bring this project to completion.
Another area of focus for the next few years will be managing our base electric business with a goal of no request for base rate increases until peak nuclear construction is behind us.
I'll now turn the call over to Jimmy who will discuss our 2012 results.
Thanks Kevin and thank you all for joining us today.
I'll begin our earnings discussion on Slide 4.
Basic earnings in the fourth quarter of 2012 were $0.79 per share compared to $0.76 per share in the same quarter of 2011.
Higher electric and gas margins as well as proceeds from the sale of communications towers partially offset by increases in operating and maintenance expenses depreciation and dilution.
The increase in operating and maintenance expense was primarily due to higher incentive compensation and generation expenses.
As I've mentioned previously incentive compensation levels were abnormally low in 2011 due to stock performance and the fact that we did not meet our internal earnings target for the year.
In 2012 we outperformed most of our peer group and exceeded our internal earnings target resulting in the accrual of additional at-risk incentive comp.
Generation-related expenses were somewhat higher due largely to changes in the O&amp;M and fuel allocation mix at our biomass facility.
We also had termination fees related to the change in the third-party administrator for our health plan in the fourth quarter of 2012.
As you can see on Slide 5 for the full year our GAAP basic earnings were $3.20 per share.
There are several factors which should be considered as you review our 2012 earnings and look forward to 2013.
First I would like to review the weather impact.
2012 marked the warmest year on record in the U.S.
We experienced $0.11 per share of abnormal weather in 2012 comprised of $0.10 in Georgia in the first and fourth quarters as well as $0.01 in the first quarter at SCE&amp;G.
As Kevin said we recognized early on that weather in Georgia was going to be a challenge but we remained committed to meeting our earnings target.
It took several actions including the sales of several well-subscribed telecommunications towers as we do in the normal course of business from time to time.
These sales of those towers contributed a gain of approximately $0.04 per share.
We also reduced our forecasted spending which contributed an additional $0.05 to the bottom line.
The year-over-year increase in O&amp;M is due to factors we discussed earlier: incentive comp generation expenses and termination fees associated with health care.
As a result of these actions and stronger-than-expected margin growth we were able to more than offset the impact of weather.
Now on Slide 6 I'd like to briefly review results for our principal lines of business.
South Carolina Electric &amp; Gas Company's full year 2012 earnings were up $0.23 compared to 2011 driven largely by base rate increases under the Base Load Review Act and the Gas Rate Stabilization Act along with customer growth.
These increases were partially offset by increases in operation and maintenance expenses interest and depreciation expenses and share dilution.
For the fourth quarter SCE&amp;G's earnings were $0.04 higher than the same period last year reflecting the aforementioned margin increases.
PSNC Energy's earnings for 2012 were $0.38 per share compared to $0.37 per share in 2011.
Increased margins from customer growth were somewhat offset by higher operating and maintenance expenses and depreciation.
Fourth quarter 2012 earnings were flat over the same period in 2011.
SCANA Energy reported lower earnings for the year and quarter primarily driven by the abnormally mild weather as I discussed earlier.
SCANA's Corporate and other businesses for 2012 reported a gain of $0.05 per share compared to a loss of $0.01 per share in 2011.
The increase is largely due to the sale of telecommunications towers as mentioned previously.
Next I would like to touch on sales growth as shown on Slide 7.
Weather-normalized sales volumes have shown promise particularly in the latter half of 2012.
For the year ended December 31 2012 total weather-normalized electric sales to residential and commercial customers were up approximately 2.4% and 1.7% respectively.
Industrial sales were down approximately 1.7% primarily due to reduced production at one of our largest customers as a result of a fire as we discussed in prior quarters.
This customer was brought back online on October.
Were this customer's operations consistent with 2011 we estimate industrial sales would have increased approximately 1.4% while total weather-normalized retail sales would have increased approximately 2%.
Of the total retail sales growth approximately 2/3 was from increased usage while 1/3 was attributable to new customers.
On Slide 8 you will find information about economic trends in our service territories.
We continue to be encouraged by the level of economic development activity with approximately $1.6 billion announced investment in our Carolina territories this year.
Census data also shows a positive trend in domestic population migration for our service territories.
Of the 4 census graphic -- geographic regions the South region saw significantly greater domestic population migration growth.
In fact more than 10x the growth of any other region.
South Carolina North Carolina and Georgia are all among the top 10 states in population growth signifying that more people are relocating to the Southeast and more importantly into our service territories which leads to customer growth.
Over the last year customer growth has trended higher in our electric business as well as in our regulated gas businesses in South and in North Carolina.
As of December 2012 those rates were 0.9% for electric 1.8% for SCE&amp;G gas and 2% for PSNC.
SCE&amp;G gas had its best growth rate since 2007 and PSNC had 2 linked quarters of 2% customer growth.
Please turn to Slide 9 which sets forth our regulated rate base and returns.
The bar graph on the left presents the components of our regulated rate base of over $7.6 billion.
As you can see from the items denoted in the 2 shades of blue approximately 85% of this rate base is composed of SCE&amp;G electric.
Our regulated gas businesses in the Carolinas continue to perform well.
Public Service of North Carolina continues to earn a strong return due to customer growth in its territory and stable margins under the customer utilization tracker mechanism.
The return on the regulated gas business in South Carolina reflects the November rate increase of $7.5 million under the Rate Stabilization Act.
We also continued to see the expected returns on the new nuclear project under the BLRA.
As we've mentioned previously a strategic goal for 2013 and beyond will be to manage our base retail electric business to prevent the need for base rate increases during the peak nuclear construction years of 2013 through 2015.
Control of O&amp;M and non-new nuclear CapEx while monitoring and responding to margin fluctuations will be essential to achieving this goal.
As you're all aware in late December the PSC issued an order approving an overall increase in retail electric revenues of approximately $97 million with an allowed ROE of 10.25%.
We anticipate this rate increase will have a net income impact of approximately $26 million in 2013.
These new rates were effective on January 1 2013.
We will file our quarterly surveillance report for SCE&amp;G electric with the Commission in mid-March.
We estimate the regulatory retail electric ROE for the 12 months ended December 2012 is approximately 10%.
We continue to fine-tune our strategy with a goal of managing this business so that we earn a reasonable return while not requesting a base rate increase during this period of peak nuclear construction.
The bottom of the slide includes a timeline depicting our regulatory filing schedule for 2013 outside of the new nuclear project.
These planned activities are standard annual filings.
As you can see in the timeline we have completed our annual demand side management filing and we'll be submitting our integrated resource plan shortly.
Slide 10 presents our CapEx forecast.
This forecast reflects new nuclear spending as reported in our latest BLRA quarterly report filed on February 13 and reflects our new CapEx budget for 2013 through 2015.
On the bottom of the slide you can see our anticipated incremental nuclear CWIP as of June 30.
This represents the incremental CWIP from July 1 through June 30 for each period on which the BLRA increase is calculated.
Our projected nuclear spend has not changed substantially since the last public version of this slide.
The projection for capital spending at our North Carolina LDC and in our gas transmission business has increased to accommodate growth in both of these subsidiaries.
Spending at SCE&amp;G has remained largely consistent with the previous CapEx schedule we presented with increases in our generation transmission and distribution categories being partially offset with decreases in other categories.
Please turn to Slide 11 to review our financing plan.
As a result of a shift in our nuclear spending as shown in the Q3 and Q4 BLRA filings coupled with the extension of bonus depreciation into 2013 we have pushed approximately $275 million of additional equity from 2013 to 2014.
We are committed to drawing the remaining funds from our equity forward contract during the first quarter of this year resulting in the issuance of approximately 6.6 million shares.
We expect this equity from the forward in addition to the $100 million from the employee stock and other DRIP plans to meet our needs for 2013 further minimizing dilution.
The blue box denotes our estimate of the additional equity needed to complete nuclear construction.
Of course the amounts and timing could change due to a change in inflation bonus depreciation the construction schedule or other factors.
I would also like to touch briefly on our pension plan.
I'm pleased to report that our pension plan remains adequately funded.
We have not had to make a cash contribution to the plan since 1997 and do not anticipate any such contributions until after 2014.
In addition we are now largely insulated from the earnings impact of changes in pension costs as a result of the implementation of a pension cost recovery rider as part of our latest electric rate case.
Slide 12 presents our 2013 earnings guidance and related assumptions.
As Kevin mentioned earlier we have increased the upper band of our long-term target growth rate from 5% to 6%.
Therefore our new target will be 3% to 6% over a 3- to 5-year period based on 2012 GAAP basic earnings per share of $3.20.
This increase represents our projected earnings momentum driven by our BLRA filings our stated goal to manage retail electric returns and our view of the economy balanced with our assumption of the impacts of the phase-in of the CFL lightbulbs and other efficiency standards.
Our 2013 guidance is $3.25 to $3.45 per share and our internal target is $3.35.
Typically we expect to earn approximately 30% of this amount in each of the first and third quarters approximately 25% in the fourth quarter and the remainder in the second.
In computing this guidance range we have included the impact of base rate increases from our new nuclear filings under the BLRA the 2012 gas RSA filing and the retail electric base rate increase that took effect on January 1.
This guidance also assumes drawing the funds under our equity forward contracts in the first quarter of 2013 and incorporates the CapEx and financing plans we presented earlier.
Additionally while we anticipate the number of customers will continue to increase our assumption of customer average use of electricity is lower next year considering the aforementioned energy efficiency impacts.
We anticipate overall retail sales growth for 2013 to be slightly less than 0.5%.
We forecast customer growth to be in a similar range to 2012.
We expect operating and maintenance expenses to be approximately 2.5% higher in 2013 excluding bad debt expense and specific O&amp;M expense increases associated with the recent rate case since those have already been considered in the anticipated $26 million net income impact we previously provided.
If you were to include rate case and bad debt expenses O&amp;M would grow at approximately double the 2.5% rate.
The largest driver of rate case expenses is the recognition of pension expense in 2013.
While this increase will be offset with additional revenue via a rider it will cost the O&amp;M line item to increase on the face of the financials.
In regards to non-rate case O&amp;M approximately 1/3 of the expected increase is due to deferred items from 2012.
Some of the other items driving the increase include amortization of program costs from our demand side management program which are offset with increased electric margin and increased reliability related costs.
We also expect continued growth in the CapEx related cost of property taxes depreciation and interest.
Also our effective tax rate for 2012 was approximately 30% and we estimate the rate for 2013 will be approximately 32%.
Our lower effective tax rate for the last couple of years has reflected the amortization of previously deferred state investment tax credits and that amortization ran its course during 2012.
The higher effective rate was considered in our most recent electric rate case.
In addition we've seen a fundamental shift in the Georgia market.
The business has really matured during the last decade resulting in thinner margins and enhanced competition for customers.
As a result we estimate earnings in Georgia will be slightly lower prospectively and in the range of approximately $0.18 to $0.20 per share.
Keeping in mind our internal target of $3.35 let's discuss the potential upsides and downsides to our 2013 earnings range.
There are several factors that could cause us to trend towards the lower end of our guidance.
We continue to see fluctuations in average use.
While we were pleased with usage in 2012 we believe that there's uncertainty around average use.
And as a result we have forecasted average use to be slightly lower in 2013.
Average use could come in even lower than forecast due to higher CFL bulb adoption rates.
Customer growth continues to be a bright spot in our service territory.
We are currently forecasting an increase similar to 2012.
However there is the possibility that customer growth comes in lower than expected.
And as you are all aware many American households have seen a reduction in take-home pay in 2013 due to the recent expiration of the payroll tax holiday.
Lower discretionary income could impact customer spending.
In addition gasoline prices are already increasing which could further impact discretionary spending particularly in our service territories where customers typically drive personal vehicles to and from work.
Additionally if nuclear spending were to slow down or shift to later years it would negatively impact our earnings potential for 2013.
In contrast there are several factors that could push it toward the upper end of our guidance.
If average use were to increase at 2012 levels or better or if customer growth accelerates beyond 2012 levels we could have potential upside.
Hopefully this will provide you with a line of sight into our view of 2013 as you update your own models.
And finally I want to mention our upcoming Analyst Day event to be held in New York on June 5.
Please mark your calendars and plan to attend.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve to provide an update on our nuclear project.
Thanks Jimmy.
I'd now like to direct your attention to Slide 13.
Construction continues to progress at our nuclear site in Jenkinsville South Carolina.
The project maintains an excellent safety record and has seen good coordination between the various contractor companies on-site.
The schedule continues to support commercial operation dates in 2017 for Unit 2 and 2018 for Unit 3.
On the top left of the slide you can see a picture of the switchyard.
Switchyard was substantially completed during the fourth quarter of 2012 and was energized for testing this year.
At top right you will see a picture of Cooling Tower 2 Alpha.
Progress on all 4 of the low-profile forced draft cooling towers continues to progress as anticipated.
On the bottom left you'll see the Unit 2 Turbine Building.
Turbine Building basemat for Unit 2 is substantially complete and we are starting vertical construction.
At bottom right you'll see a picture of the Unit 3 Nuclear Island rock cleaning and form work have been completed and leveling concrete has been poured.
The lower and upper mud mats along with the waterproof membrane will be installed in the coming months.
Slide 14 is a picture of the Unit 2 Nuclear Island.
As you may have noticed in January we filed a License Amendment Request or LAR and a Preliminary Amendment Request or PAR with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to reflect changes in the license design as it relates to reinforcing bar in the Nuclear Island basemat.
The proposed changes reflect a modification to the American Concrete Institute code section referenced in the design from Section 349 to Section 318.
The use of this code section requires relatively minor changes to the rebar and to the thickness of the concrete in the areas below the elevator pits and the sump.
In January we received a No Objection letter from the NRC staff on the path laid out in the PAR.
At that point we began work on the reinforcing bar reconfiguration allowing us to prepare for the nuclear concrete pour upon receipt of the LAR.
We're optimistic that we will receive the LAR in the first quarter.
We don’t expect this issue to impact the commercial operation dates for the 2 units.
As you may have noticed in our most recent BLRA filing we have filed 7 LARs to date and anticipate that there will be more throughout the course of the project.
I wanted to bring to your attention that these filings are relatively routine and are a normal part of the nuclear licensing process.
Not only are they filed for new nuclear construction but they are routine in all nuclear facilities including our V.C.
Summer Unit #1.
These filings were made periodically throughout the construction of our new nuclear build.
Overall the fabrication of equipment off-site is proceeding on a schedule that supports the commercial operation date of the units.
The components of the condenser for Unit 2 have arrived on-site and are being assembled.
Manufacturing and testing of the reactor vessel for Unit 2 as seen on Slide 15 is nearing completion and shipment is planned for the second quarter of 2013.
Steam generators for Unit 2 are also scheduled to be delivered in 2013.
However the schedule for fabrication of the sub-modules from a Shaw Modular Solutions facility in Lake Charles Louisiana remains a focus area for the project.
Senior management from SCE&amp;G Shaw and Westinghouse continue to actively provide oversight and we continue to see improvement in the fabrication and delivery process related to the sub-modules.
Progress at the Sanmen plant in China which is building the AP1000 design is going well as you can see on Slide 16.
In January they successfully set the containment vessel top head which you can still see attached to the large blue crane.
All major equipment has been installed and the welding of the main cooling piping is in process.
We congratulate them on their achievements and look forward to accomplishing the same milestones.
Slide 17 gives you a visual representation of the sections of the containment vessel.
You can see that the top head which Sanmen just set -- the containment vessel is approximately 215 feet tall 130 feet in diameter and weighs about 7 million pounds.
The containment vessel is assembled in 5 main sections: the bottom head 3 ring sections and the top head.
Each section is assembled and welded from individual steel plates that are shipped to the site from sub-vendors where they have been rolled formed cut and beveled.
On Slide 18 you can see the progress that has been made on the fabrication of the containment vessel for Unit 2.
The on-site fabrication by Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron is steadily progressing.
They have worked on the rings that attach the completed bottom head and which will form the vertical walls of the containment vessel containers.
On Slide 19 we review our new nuclear Base Load Review Act filings and related rate increases.
In September of last year the Public Service Commission of South Carolina approved a rate increase of $52 million.
These new rates were effective for bills rendered on and after October 30.
We continue to be pleased that the mechanism is working as designed.
Our BLRA filings for 2013 are shown at the bottom of the slide.
As you can see our next quarterly status report will be filed in May and we will make our annual request for revised rates under the BLRA in May as well.
Information on Slide 20 reflects the expected rate increases for our nuclear project through 2015.
As you can see the amount for 2013 is lower than the number previously provided in May of last year due largely to the shift of CapEx as discussed in our third quarter 2012 BLRA report and the escalation associated with that shift.
The amounts for 2014 and 2015 are largely unchanged.
We will adjust these numbers in May when we make our request for revised rates but we wanted to give you a sense of our current expectations.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We will now be glad to respond to any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Adam Muro of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Adam Muro here subbing in for Michael and Neil.
Just curious the Vogtle plant under construction by Georgia Power recently faced a challenge of the railcar used to get the reactor vessel from the port to the plant site was not big enough creating some logistical issues.
I mean just curious on whether this impacts your construction project.
If so how and what can be done to remedy this? This is Steve.
The railcar that was used to transport the reactor vessel from the Port of Savannah to the Vogtle site I didn't understand that it was undersized but the load did shift in transit not far out of the Port of Savannah.
The vendor in this case it's Westinghouse along with the railcar vendor are redesigning that car.
We don’t anticipate that it's going to have any impact on our delivery schedule.
We don't need our reactor vessel on the site until sometime next year.
Our next question will come from Travis Miller of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could just discuss your dividend policy and ability to increase the dividend in line with your targeted earnings growth rate particularly given the amount of capital expenditure you have coming up? Sure.
Well our policy is 55% to 60% payout ratio.
And we got a little ahead of that not due to dividend growth but due to a pullback in earnings at the beginning of the recession a few years ago.
And we presented a plan to our board about 3 years ago.
They took the third step in that plan yesterday which we published.
And that is to continue to grow dividends but grow them at a lesser rate than the earnings growth so that we get back inside the top end of that payout ratio.
So we're very close to it now I think based on our proposed guidance for '13 we're just slightly over 60%.
So we would expect to be able to continue to grow it until we're completely inside of that range at a slightly lower rate than earnings growth and then we would expect the dividend growth to be fairly consistent with earnings growth.
Research Division</strong> Great.
If you could provide a little color on the expected difference between the retail sales guidance of roughly 0.5% compared to 2% for 2012 if you include the customer outage.
Is that all just due to higher efficiency rates? It principally is.
And we've expected our actual number of customers added new customers added to the system would be very similar in 2013 to 2012 that's our planning assumption.
At least we based it off of what we had experienced through Q3.
When we put our plan together of course Q4 accelerated just slightly above that from 0.6% to 0.9%.
So most of the kind of dampening of it is our expectation of these efficiency standards.
And there's kind of no question that this is coming with these CFL bulbs principally.
The question -- the very difficult part for all of us is exactly when does it work through and how much of it comes through.
So we've assumed it comes in over 3 to 4 years and becomes completely saturated.
But frankly we don't know what kind of inventories are out there in folks' homes of incandescent bulbs that they can use over time.
So that's the biggest factor.
The next question will be from Andy Levi of Avon Capital.
I'm sorry if you've talked about this in your formal comments I've just been hopping around calls here.
But what was -- what prompted you to take the high end of your growth rate up to 6% which we were happy to see? Yes Andy this is Kevin.
We've had these discussions on the calls I think ever since we lowered the rate as to when we might be able to move it back up.
We talked last year and we watched carefully as we tried to figure out exactly what was going on in the economy.
We saw glimpses of movement both in the customer usage as well as the growth rate.
We hadn't seen anything that we felt like was more of a trend until we got towards the end of the year.
Based on our analysis I guess we would say we see a light at the end of the tunnel now rather than a flicker and we felt confident raising that top end combined with the growth we expect to see from the Base Load Review Act increases.
But we still a left a 3% on the bottom end just in case the economy does take a turn on us or we see more of an impact from the CFLs that Jimmy talked about earlier.
But I think just all in all it's a little firmer confidence from our feeling of what the opportunities are and the growth we see in the population in South Carolina as well as just a more continuous stream of average usage going up rather than being up 1 month and down the next month.
We see that a little more consistent.
And I think you probably mentioned this too and I probably missed it.
So you moved the equity out a year which you had scheduled to do for '13.
Was that a function of bonus depreciation or what was the reason for that? Yes.
Andy it's really a function of several things.
But one I would say the inflation on the overall project continues to be less than we had expected.
Project to date now it's about $600 million less total projected escalation or inflation on the project than we had planned at the outset when it was approved.
Hence the overall projected cost is now down from $6.3 billion to about $5.7 billion.
And if -- you know our strategy is 50-50 debt and equity financing so half of that comes from equity so that's kind of a permanent dampering on the need for equity.
And then bonus depreciation certainly contributed some to that as well as some of the just -- better results on customer growth and customer usage.
The retained earnings as a part of that helps offset it too.
[indiscernible] Sorry to finish up we will take down the equity forward here next month before the end of the first quarter and that's $200 million from the deal we did back in 2010 and that keeps us in good shape.
And what was the benefit -- what's going to be the benefit of bonus depreciation in '13? I think we estimate it to be maybe $80 million or something in that ballpark.
Okay.
So basically you're below budget and on schedule on the nukes pretty good.
That's right.
The next question will be from Andrew Weisel of Macquarie Capital.
Most of my questions have been asked and answered.
I guess just the one last one I'll add is the 3% to 6% using $3.20 as a base that's 3% to 6% is basic earnings per share growth? That's right.
So what might that look like on a diluted basis as these issuances come out and as the share count changes over time? Well the dilutive effect at least prospectively will be eliminated once we take this forward down next month.
So that dilution calculation will require to use that treasury method just like you would you be for options or something of that nature.
But it's not like an option in executive comp where it's not the company's option as to when it happens it's the individual's option.
This is always -- we were the driver of it.
I've been a little frustrated with the dilutive calculation related to the forward because it's such as theoretical animal but I really haven't computed it going forward.
There'll be some tail period until it works out of the historical calculations but it will not be applicable prospectively.
Sure that makes perfect sense.
And similarly the 2013 guidance again that's basic but dilutive probably won't look too different is that a fair assumption? Yes.
I think that's a fair assumption.
[Operator Instructions] And we have a question from John Alli at Decade Capital.
I apologize but I was hopping on just as you guys were starting the commentary around the dividend growth.
I was wondering if you might just be able to recap that quickly? Sure.
Well our policy is 55% to 60% payout so we've been a little over our policy statement the last few years just due to the pullback in earnings around the recession.
So the strategy that we've recommended and our board's endorsed over the last 3 years has been to grow dividends at the smaller rate than earnings growth to get back within that cap.
So we're almost back there now.
Growth rate on the dividend was about 2.5% this year higher than the last couple of years but still smaller than the earnings growth rate of about 6%.
So we're about back where we need to be.
And once we're completely inside that cap we would expect to grow dividends fairly consistently with earnings.
Now there may be some years when earnings are a little lumpy with rate increases and things like that and we intend to take a longer-term view on dividends to kind of flatten some of that out.
Great.
Any color on the timing of the '14 equity? No not at this point.
I mean we'll continue to monitor the project construction.
We'll continue to monitor what Congress might do.
I mean hey they could come up with some more bonus depreciation or something like that so I really don't have anything specific at this point.
And we need to watch what inflation does as well because if it continues to come down that could haircut some of the total amount and the timing of when this is needed.
And ladies and gentlemen this will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Kevin Marsh for his closing comments.
Thank you.
Let me summarize by saying we are pleased with the results for 2012.
The abnormal weather during the year presented some challenges for us but I was pleased with the management team as they rose to meet that challenge and their efforts resulted in a strong finish for the year.
Our nuclear construction continues to progress as Steve discussed and although we have some challenges we continue to focus on bringing the 2 new plants online during 2017 and 2018 respectively.
Thanks for joining us today and for your continuing interest in SCANA.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen the conference has now concluded.
We thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Thursday April 25 2013.
Anyone who does not consent to the taping may drop off the line.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Byron Hinson Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Thank you and welcome to our earnings conference call including those who are joining us on the webcast.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the first quarter of 2013.
Joining us on the call today are Jimmy Addison SCANA's Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer of SCE&amp;G.
During the call Jimmy will provide an overview of our financial results and economic development in our service territory.
Steve will provide an update on our new nuclear project.
After our comments we will respond to your questions.
The slides and the earnings release referred to in this call are available at SCANA.com.
Before I turn the call over to Jimmy I would like to remind you that certain statements that may be made during today's call are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as shown on Slide 2.
The company does not recognize an obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Additionally we may disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation and the required Reg G information can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website.
I'll now turn the call over to Jimmy.
Thanks Byron and thank you all for joining us today.
I'll begin our earnings discussion on Slide 3.
Basic earnings in the first quarter of 2013 were $1.13 per share compared to $0.93 per share in the same quarter of 2012.
Higher electric and gas margins were primarily offset by increases in CapEx-related costs such as depreciation property taxes interest expense and share dilution.
Our results during the first quarter of 2013 were slightly better than our forecast due primarily to timing of O&amp;M expenses.
As we projected in our February call we took down the 6.6 million shares under our equity forward during March.
For the remainder of the year we expect comparable basic earnings per share to moderate due to the related dilution.
Now on Slide 4 I'd like to briefly review results for our principal lines of business.
South Carolina Electric &amp; Gas Company's first quarter 2013 earnings denoted in blue were up $0.13 compared to 2012 driven largely by base rate increases along with customer growth.
These increases were partially offset by increases in interest and depreciation expenses and share dilution.
PSNC Energy's earnings for the first quarter 2013 shown in red were $0.24 per share and consistent with the first quarter of 2012.
Increases in margin due to customer growth were partially offset by higher operations and maintenance expenses and depreciation expenses.
SCANA Energy the company's retail and natural gas marketing business in Georgia reported first quarter 2013 earnings of $0.16 per share compared to $0.09 per share in the first quarter of 2012.
The increase is primarily attributable to a return to normal weather.
SCANA's corporate and other businesses which include Carolina Gas Transmission SCANA Communications ServiceCare SCANA Energy Marketing and the holding company reported earnings of $0.05 per share consistent with the first quarter of 2012.
Next I would like to touch on sales growth as shown on Slide 5.
We continue to see growth in weather-normalized sales volumes.
For the 12 months ended March 31 2013 total weather-normalized electric sales to residential and commercial customers were up approximately 2.5% and 0.7% respectively.
Industrial sales were down approximately 0.9% primarily due to reduced production at one of our largest customers as a result of a fire as we've discussed in prior quarters.
As we have mentioned previously we evaluate weather-normalized sales on a 12-month rolling basis in order to capture an entire business cycle.
Because of this the impact of the fire is reflected in our industrial volumes.
Excluding the impact of the fire we estimate industrial sales would have increased approximately 0.5% while total weather-normalized retail sales would have increased approximately 1.4%.
On the bottom left-hand side of the slide you will find the information about economic trends in our service territories.
We continue to be encouraged by the level of economic development activity with approximately $1.1 billion announced investment and over 2 600 jobs in our Carolinas territories this year.
A significant portion of these investments and jobs are due to a recent announcement by Boeing Corporation that plans to invest another $1 billion and add at least 2 000 more jobs at its North Charleston campus.
Our electric customer base grew at a rate of 0.8% this past quarter continuing to show stable growth.
Growth at our regulated gas businesses in South and North Carolina continues to be strong.
As of March 2013 those rates were 1.8% for SCE&amp;G gas and 2.2% for PSNC.
PSNC had its best growth rate since 2008.
PSNC also hit a milestone this quarter as they exceeded 500 000 customers.
Slide 6 presents our CapEx forecast which has not changed since our previous earnings call.
This forecast reflects new nuclear spending as reported in our latest BLRA quarterly report filed on February 13 and reflects our new CapEx budget for 2013 through 2015.
Along the bottom of the slide you can see our anticipated incremental nuclear CWIP as of June 30.
This represents the incremental CWIP from July 1 through June 30 for each period on which the BLRA increase is calculated.
As you can see from the slide we're beginning to enter a period of nuke -- peak nuclear spending.
Please turn to Slide 7 to review our financing plan.
This slide presents our estimated financing plan through 2017 and is also consistent with the forecast on our last call.
As I mentioned we settled our equity forward resulting in the issuance of 6.6 million shares in early March.
We don't anticipate any additional equity issuances for the balance of 2013 other than through our 401(k) and dividend reinvestment plans.
We continue to anticipate new First Mortgage Bond issuances to support new nuclear construction later in the year.
Please turn to Slide 8.
We are reaffirming our earnings guidance of $3.25 to $3.45 basic earnings per share along with our internal target of $3.35 per share.
Our long-term outlook remains unchanged as we plan to deliver 3% to 6% earnings growth over the 3- to 5-year period based on 2012 GAAP basic earnings per share of $3.20.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve to provide an update on our nuclear project.
Thanks Jimmy and let me start by addressing an issue we have been dealing with since last year but has gained notoriety in the past few days based on a press release issued by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission on Monday.
SCE&amp;G has requested a regulatory conference with the NRC based on the NRC's preliminary categorization of a finding during a construction inspection.
The NRC assigned a color coding -- sorry the NRC assigns a color coding to findings based on their determination of safety significance.
The range of colors is green white yellow and red with green being the least significant.
A green finding is defined as one of having very low safety significance.
In this instance we were preliminary issued a white finding the next lowest level which indicates a low to moderate safety significance.
We have not previously received a finding of greater than green on a construction and we believe that this one should also be green which is why we requested the conference.
This is not a new issue having first been raised last September and we have discussed it on previous earnings calls.
It deals with shear reinforcement spacing and the use of T-heads in the concrete basemat.
We corrected the problem prior to pouring the basemat which was completed on March 11 and no additional work on the basemat will be needed regardless of the outcome of this conference.
In addition we identified a similar condition that exists in other wall sections of the nuclear island.
We are submitting license amendment requests or LARs to document the change and gain NRC approval and we expect to receive those LARs shortly.
And we'll then be able to begin pouring these wall sections.
We continue to anticipate that Unit 2 will become operational in 2017 and Unit 3 in 2018.
I would now like to direct your attention to Slide 9.
As I mentioned previously in March we completed the placement of the nuclear island basemat sometimes referred to as first nuclear concrete or FNC.
That event marked the first new such construction of nuclear concrete to be poured in the United States in 3 decades.
Basemat provides a foundation for the containment building shield building and auxilliary building that make up the nuclear island.
Measuring 6 feet in thickness the basemat covered a surface totaling 32 000 square feet and it took just over 50 hours of continuous pouring to complete.
We're very pleased with the collaborative efforts of our partners in making this concrete pour a success.
Please turn now to Slide 10.
At the beginning of April we set the 500-ton CR-10 module on the Unit 2 basemat.
This module had been previously assembled on-site and was lifted into place using the heavy lift derrick.
CR-10 supports the containment vessel.
One of the next steps for Unit 2 will be to set the containment vessel bottom head in the CR-10 module.
The bottom head has also been previously assembled on-site.
On the top left of Slide 11 you can see a picture of the switchyard.
The switchyard was energized and turned over to SCE&amp;G in January of this year.
This gives us the ability to back feed to the 2 new nuclear plants to perform testing when the time comes.
At the top right of that same slide you will see a picture of cooling tower 2 Alpha.
Progress on all 4 low-profile forced-draft cooling towers continues to progress as anticipated.
On the bottom left you will see the Unit 2 turbine building.
The basemat for the Unit 2 turbine building is complete and the forming and pouring of the walls has begun.
At bottom right you will see a picture of the Unit 3 nuclear island.
Leveling concrete has been poured and the lower mud mat is complete.
Installation of the waterproof membrane in the upper mud mat will be completed in the coming months and the basemat will follow.
Again the schedule continues to support commercial operation dates in 2017 for Unit 2 and 2018 for Unit 3.
As you can see on Slide 12 we have 2 Base Load Review Act or BLRA filings coming up in May.
Around mid-May we will file our quarterly status update with the Public Service Commission.
And on May 30th we will make our annual request for revised rates under the BLRA.
Both of these filings will be made available for review in the Investor Relations section of SCANA.com That concludes our prepared remarks.
We will now be glad to respond to any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from Travis Miller with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Wondering if you can walk through some of the cost implications that might be related to the NRC finding the meeting anything related to that potentially? Travis this is Steve Byrne.
At this point in time we are still hopeful that we will be able to make our case that this is a lower safety significant item than the NRC perhaps preliminary thought it was.
And that -- if that's the case we won't see any changes to the cost of the project based on this.
Really when you look at the significance determination process that the NRC goes through in categorizing these findings even if it were to be categorized as a white finding what that would mean for us is increased inspection.
And of course I don't know at this point how much increased inspection.
That really becomes a burden on our staff the cost of which would be difficult to quantify.
But there is no direct correlation to say that if you get a finding it's going to cost you x because we would not anticipate a fine from this.
So from a cost point of view we don't think it's going to be material.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that relates to the capital investment potentially or CapEx.
Also you won't expect to see much impact on that side? That's correct we would not.
Your next question is from Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> This is Moseh for Julien.
Just a quick question on retail.
Any chance if you guys could give us an update on your outlook and expectations for retail in Georgia prospectively? Yes.
It really hasn't changed since what we guided at the year-end call in February.
So we expect that business on a normal weather basis to be about $0.18 to $0.20 a share in earnings for 2013.
And the first quarter of 2013 was normal.
It's just that the first quarter of '12 as compared to was so abnormal almost 50% below in heating degree days.
So we're right on track so far.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just going back to nuclear for a second.
Just kind of help us understand how this safety violation kind of differs from Southern's rebar issue? It's the same issue.
The rebar issue that they had at Southern initially was the same issue that we had.
And in fact it came up at our plant.
So when we talk about the rebar issue for the basemat this is the same issue.
And again it was corrected prior to us pouring the basemat and the same thing would be the case for Southern corrected prior to them pouring their basemat.
So there's no impact to the basemat from this violation.
Your next question is from Leslie Rich with JPMorgan.
Inc.</strong> I wondered if I could ask you to review again you said you need to file another license amendment request for the walls.
I wondered if you could just go through that again.
Sure.
Similar to the way we handled the basemat we filed a license amendment request to handle the changes that we wanted to make to the basemat.
And if you remember that issue probably from our last earnings call we did some physical changes to the reinforcing bar in the basemat and we also changed the applicable code section from the concrete code from one section to another.
So for the wall section we're going to do the same thing.
So we'll change the reference from ACI 349 to ACI 318 and then we'll do some physical changes to the reinforcing bar itself.
Now those -- for the lower levels the critical sections the ones that we're going to need next we have already submitted that license amendment request to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and expect approval of that relatively soon.
And we think that more than likely there will be other license amendment requests for the upper levels these will be levels that obviously we won't be needing for some time in the months or years to come.
Inc.</strong> So I guess this license amendment request process is it getting a little bit more streamlined? And when the first one was filed it was sort of potentially a big deal.
Now is it just more "Oh we have a change here we have a change there?" It's not likely to be hung up at the NRC for any extended period of time? Leslie I think as with everything else the more often you do it on our side and on the regulator side they become more efficient at handling and processing them so I do expect some efficiencies to be gained there.
But to their credit even with the basemat license amendment requests and preliminary approval request that we submitted the NRC did exactly what they said that they would do and pretty well followed their timeline.
So we have no complaints about how expeditiously they processed those changes and we would anticipate similar handling of these changes.
Your next question is from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just some nuts and bolts questions.
First of all O&amp;M was basically flat on a year-over-year basis.
Just curious because when you -- in some of your prior slides from last year you outlined some of the pressures like pension like environmental cost that were embedded in the rate case but would also create upward movement in O&amp;M.
It didn't look like that flowed through.
Just kind of would love your thoughts on what happened there.
Sure.
Those costs did flow through.
The reason they might not appear on the surface is they were offset by other kind of reductions.
We had 2 or 3 things going on in the first quarter that will relate to what we call internally timing.
They're going to show up later in the year rather than in the first quarter when we initially expected and let me give you a couple of examples.
We had some really -- we had a really mild January and we had a really wet and cold February and March.
Overall it was statistically normal.
So for example the Georgia business ended up like I said earlier with normal weather.
However with very mild weather in January and the colder weather at the end of the quarter we really didn't see the same level of bad debts or write-offs that we had expected in Q1.
A lot of those bills are just showing up in April and May to the customers.
So we expect there may be a couple of cents of that that trickles over into Q2.
We didn't have any significant storms that would require us to hit our storm deductible which is $2.5 million a year before we go against our storm reserve.
We didn't hit any of that but we had hit some of it in the past comparative quarter.
We were lower than expected on our vegetation management our tree trimming in Q1 because of that wet weather prevented the guys from being out there and executing on some of those plans.
So those were some of the things that were really netting and offsetting those costs that are there that we discussed earlier.
Research Division</strong> And so when we think about what's embedded in your 2013 guidance what should we assume kind of year-over-year O&amp;M growth? Yes well as we discussed a couple of months ago on the year-end call I said overall we expected to be in the close to 5% range.
And about half of that is driven by amortized costs that are coming out of the rate case order pension costs those kinds of things.
So on the net at this point I really see it maybe being slightly less than that maybe 4% to 4.5% but not significantly less.
I think it will still show up in the full overall period.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So a little bit more back-end loaded rather than kind of spread? Like we were assuming it was just kind of spread evenly throughout the quarters.
Yes.
And frankly we presumed some of that in our plan too but we can't tell in advance what the weather's going to be and the rain's going to be and the storms.
That's reality.
Research Division</strong> One follow-on just trying to get a feel for how much of the rate increases that were granted at SCE&amp;G going into 2013 really just the core base rate not the nuclear.
How much of that has already been incurred that you benefited from versus what's left over to take rest of the year? Well it started January 1 so we've got a full quarter in there.
And I don't know the exact cyclical breakdown of it.
But net of those related costs you and I were discussing earlier it's probably $0.02 to $0.03 earnings contribution in Q1 net of those costs.
But I don't really have the revenue breakdown on a cyclical basis.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And finally just from a reporting perspective how do you all allocate the holding company debt when you show your segment EPS? Yes that's really rolled up in the holdco and others in that category that's not broken out in any of the separating opcos.
So it remains in there netted with the others.
Your next question is from Jonathan Reeder with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Steve you mentioned that you're still on track for 2017 and '18 for the new nuclear units.
Is that still March and May respectively? Jonathan we haven't had any changes to the in-service dates that we last took to our commission.
Now with the Base Load Review Act order we do have some schedule flexibility and so it's 18 months before we would have to go back and say we were not on schedule.
So as of this point in time I don't have any information to say that we're going to be outside of the specific dates that we have in our last order which you just mentioned March and May.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Jimmy on the trailing 12-months weather-normalized retail sales growth of 1.4% the adjusted amount is that net of the energy efficiency efforts? I'm just kind of wondering since I believe your 2013 guidance embeds only 0.5% usage growth for the whole year.
Yes we're using 12 months rolling so that's including 3 quarters from 2012 and the first quarter of '13.
We try to do that just take out some of the -- to get a full cycle in there.
And I think what you were talking about our plan for '13 obviously excludes those prior periods in 2012.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
But is the 1.4% is that net of energy efficiency efforts? Because I know you're kind of indicating the 0.5% for 2013 reflected a headwind from some efficiency efforts in particular kind of CFL bulb adoption and stuff like that.
Yes net we expect to be somewhere around 0.5% or slightly less overall retail growth.
LLC Research Division</strong> Does that mean -- I guess you feel pretty comfortable that that's on the conservative side if anything right now based on how Q1 shaped up? No I wouldn't really say that.
I'd say I feel like it's pretty accurate at this point.
I wouldn't characterize it as conservative or aggressive either way.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question is from Dan Jenkins State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
Going to your Slide 6 on the CapEx I was wondering if you could update what you've spent in the first quarter? No Dan I really don't -- I don't have that handy with me here now.
But on the general part of the business other than generation which tends to be projects and when we do those in the shoulder months so either the spring or the fall generally the others is going to flow fairly ratably throughout the year.
And the new nuclear Steve I don't know if you have any comments to characterize? I don't yet have the first quarter update.
Yes we really don't have that.
I'm sorry.
Okay.
And I was curious on the prior Slide 5 if you had -- could give any color? You talked a little bit about on the industrial what the impact for the customer with the fire.
But have you seen any change in trend among the industrial classes is that improving or about the same or any color related to that? It's really a case-by-case deal.
In fact I was looking over those a couple of days ago at our top 30 or 40 customers and it's kind of a hodgepodge.
There's not any one certain trend or it's not like all are flat like the average is.
As you might imagine there's some volatility on both sides of that.
Somewhat sector specific there will be fits and starts with housing and chemicals and things of that nature but nothing really stands out as a trend Dan.
Your next question is from Andrew Weisel with Macquarie Capital.
You've already addressed most of them.
Just a bookkeeping one what was the basic and diluted share count ending the quarter after the equity floor was drawn? Yes Page 4 of the press release right at the bottom of that page you can get those.
So basic it was 134.4 million; diluted 136.1 million.
Wasn't that the average for the quarter? I'm asking the ending.
If you're looking for an ending...
Like what's going forward what should we be assuming? Yes you're going to -- we're going to put that in the 10-Q.
It will be filed in another week or so.
But the year-end number we took down 6.6 million shares.
So I mean the actual number outstanding is just slightly under 140 million but it will take a full 12 months for that to average into the annual average for sure.
Your next question is from Tim Winter with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> I was wondering if you could just kind of talk about some of the puts and takes with the equity going forward your stock's hitting an all-time high again today.
And the forward how did that work out for you and what are you thinking going forward? Yes well I might just refer those over if you have the slides nearby to Page 7 so nothing has changed since the last call on this.
We still estimate about $500 million of equity in addition to that that would come through our K and dividend reinvestment plans and that would cover the balance of the construction of the projects.
We indicate that in kind of that blue hash box because it may or may not occur just like it's laid out there on the chart.
The forward helped us a great deal in that we did the forward originally in the middle of 2010.
We had expected to take it down in 6 to 9 months based on the planned construction schedule.
Because of the bonus depreciation stimulus passed by Congress because of some of the change in our tax strategies we really didn't need that cash at that point so we extended the forward twice.
So on one hand it's really worked out well that we avoided the basic dilution for close to 3 years.
On the other hand the market -- frankly you guys have been about 50-50 some have included it in -- you picked up diluted some have picked up basic.
So it's kind of a hodgepodge.
So it certainly helped our actual earnings per share on a basic basis.
But it's been a little bit of a disappointment that it's just an odd animal as I've discussed before and about half the market has followed on the diluted basis.
So I just see it really different than options or something like that so it does have that drawback.
How we do it going forward? We're going to continue to monitor this.
The good news is we don't need any more for the balance of the year other than what we would get through the plans which is kind of pro rata each quarter.
And we'll watch the market and see what's going on watch the projected inflation with the project and the project schedule.
And it's just too early to tell any more about when or how we'll do that.
Your next question is from Andy Levi with Avon Capital.
Actually most of my questions were answered but just a follow-up.
I guess based on your comments it's safe to kind of say that your opinion of a forward sale is not as favorable as it was since you've experienced the forward sale.
Is that kind of what you're trying to say? I'm glad we did it.
I wish it did not come with the baggage of the dilution associated with it.
Because again about half of the market has focused on the diluted and about half have focused on basic.
I wish it were clear there.
But no if I had to do it over again knowing everything we know now it would still be the best option because it gave us that flexibility for such a period of time.
[indiscernible] question is from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Jimmy real quick follow-up.
Tax this year how big of a difference do you expect between booked and GAAP in cash taxes? Or how impactful how much do you expect in terms of cash flow related to bonus D&amp;A? Yes bonus D&amp;A we expect to be somewhere in the $70 million to $90 million range for 2013.
And the effective tax rate we projected at the beginning of the year and it's held through so far at about 32%.
So I can't tell you exactly what the cash basis will be but it will start ramping up here this year or so.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Meaning the $80 million of bonus D&amp;A is basically the only major offset to book taxes you can imagine from a cash tax perspective? Well we've got one other one in that change in our tax strategy the 263A but it's not as significant as the bonus depreciation.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to now turn the conference back over to Mr.
Jimmy Addison for any closing remarks.
Well thank you and thank you all.
To summarize we're very pleased with our results for the first quarter of 2013.
We remain on track to meet our target and have met several major milestones with our new nuclear project.
And finally I want to again mention our upcoming Analyst Day event to be held in New York on June 5.
Please mark your calendars and plan to attend either in person or online.
And we thank you for you joining us today and for your interest in SCANA.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
Please disconnect your lines.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Thursday August 1 2013.
Anyone who does not consent to the taping may drop off the line.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Byron Hinson Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Thank you and welcome to our earnings conference call including those who are joining us on the webcast.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the second quarter of 2013.
Joining us on the call today are Jimmy Addison SCANA's Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer of SCE&amp;G.
During the call Jimmy will provide an overview of our financial results and economic development in our service territory and Steve will provide an update on our new nuclear project.
After our comments we will respond to your questions.
The slides in the earnings release referred to in this call are available at scana.com.
Before I turn the call over to Jimmy I would like to remind you that certain statements that may be made during today's call are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as shown on Slide 2.
The company does not recognize an obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Additionally we may disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation.
And the required Reg G information can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website.
I'll now turn the call over to Jimmy.
Thanks Byron and thank you all for joining us today.
I'll begin our earnings discussion on Slide 3.
Basic earnings in the second quarter of 2013 were $0.60 per share compared to $0.55 per share in the same quarter of 2012.
Higher electric and gas margins were principally offset by increases in CapEx-related costs including interest expense depreciation property taxes and share dilution.
Please turn to Slide 4.
Basic earnings per share for the 6 months ended June 30 2013 were $1.73 versus $1.48 in 2012.
Similar to the quarter increases in electric and gas margins were partially offset by higher expenses related to our capital program.
Now on Slide 5 I'd like to briefly review results for our principal lines of business.
South Carolina Electric &amp; Gas Company's second quarter basic earnings denoted in blue were up $0.04 compared to 2012 driven largely by base rate increases along with customer growth.
These increases were partially offset by increases in operating and maintenance expenses property taxes depreciation and share dilution.
Year-to-date basic earnings were higher by $0.17 due primarily to higher electric margin.
PSNC Energy recorded seasonally flat earnings for the second quarter of 2013 comparable to the same period of last year.
For the 6-month period ended June 30 shown in red basic earnings were $0.24 per share in line with the prior year.
SCANA Energy our retail natural gas marketing business in Georgia shown in green reported a seasonal loss of $0.02 cents per share for the second quarter consistent with last year.
Year-to-date earnings are up $0.08 primarily due to a return to normal weather during the first quarter of 2013.
SCANA's corporate and other businesses reported a loss of $0.01 per share in the second quarter compared to a loss of $0.02 in 2012.
For the 6-month period these businesses reported basic earnings per share of $0.04 in 2013 consistent with 2012.
I'd like to touch on economic trends in our service territory as shown on Slide 6.
We continue to see new business growth and expansion of existing businesses.
Through the second quarter of this year companies have announced plans to invest approximately $1.5 billion with expectations of creating over 6 000 jobs in our Carolinas territories.
We're pleased that this year is shaping up to be another solid year in terms of economic development in our region.
Driven by prior economic announcements unemployment rates continue to improve.
Announcements of new businesses as well as business expansions have translated into job creation.
The unemployment rate in SCE&amp;G's electric territory denoted in blue of 7% is 200 basis points better than during the peak of the recession and continues to be favorable compared to the national rate.
Additionally the U.S.
Commerce Department released a survey in June noting that South Carolina led the Southeast in economic growth during 2012 with real GDP growth of 2.7%.
Manufacturing is clearly playing a key role in South Carolina's economic growth.
Slide 7 presents weather-normalized sales and customer growth.
The top left outlines our weather-normalized sales for the 12 months ended June which you can see have increased slightly.
From the bottom of the slide are the customer growth rates for each of our regulated businesses.
In addition to the aforementioned electric growth our regulated gas businesses in South and North Carolina grew at 2%.
SCE&amp;G gas hit the 2% growth mark for the first time since the third quarter of 2007.
As you will note on the top right these results are in line with our expectations.
Now I would like to speak about our operational and maintenance expenses for the year.
As we've previously mentioned our strategic goal for 2013 and beyond would be to manage our base retail electric business to prevent the need for base rate increases during the peak nuclear construction years.
One of the instruments in achieving this goal is O&amp;M cost control.
We originally estimated during the year-end call that O&amp;M expenses would be approximately 5% higher in 2013 with about half of that increase driven by a specific rate case-related expense amortization of previously deferred items.
While these amortizations are occurring as projected the other projected expense growth has been mitigated by cost-control efforts such as lower labor cost and the delay of certain items.
We constantly scrutinize the organization for efficiencies which has principally been accomplished through attrition to mitigate other external cost increases.
Now please turn to Slide 8.
Another factor is lower-than-planned vegetation management during the significant rainfall of the second quarter.
Our crews have been able to trim approximately 300 fewer miles of transmission and distribution right of ways than they had at this point in 2012.
South Carolina received substantial rainfall during the past quarter as you can see in this picture from one of our transmission right of ways.
While this photo is an extreme example on average Colombia and Charleston comprising the majority of our service area in SCE&amp;G had 15 inches of rain during the second quarter which is approximately 50% above normal.
This has kept our crews from being able to trim some of the right of ways which has resulted in lower O&amp;M compared to our plan.
We expect most of this O&amp;M will be spent during the balance of the year assuming normal rainfall.
Also outages and projects at some of our coal-fired plants have shifted from the spring of 2013 to the fall which have caused some timing variances compared to our plan.
Considering the cost-control efforts and these type of timing items we now project full year O&amp;M expenses to grow approximately 3.5% over 2012 levels.
Now please turn to Slide 9 which recaps our regulatory rate base and returns.
The pie chart on the left presents the components of our regulated rate base of approximately $8.3 billion.
As you can see from the items denoted in the 2 shades of blue approximately 86% of this rate base is composed of SCE&amp;G Electric.
In the block on the top right you will see SCE&amp;G's base electric business in which we're allowed a 10.25% return on equity.
The earned return as of the end of the second quarter of 2013 was approximately 9.9% virtually unchanged from Q1.
Again the strategic goal for 2013 and beyond will be to manage our base retail electric business to prevent the need for base rate increases during the peak nuclear construction years.
Control of O&amp;M and nonnuclear CapEx while monitoring and responding to margin fluctuations is essential to achieving this goal.
Continuing down the page.
On our new nuclear business we are allowed an 11% return on equity.
We've had incremental CWIP in the last year of approximately $570 million and we expect to implement a rate increase in November of just under 2.9%.
Our regulated gas businesses in the Carolinas continued to perform well.
We're allowed a return on equity of 10.6% and 10.25% in North Carolina and South Carolina respectively and we continue to run those businesses close to those returns.
Along the bottom of the page is our regulatory schedule outside of any Base Load Review Act or BLRA filings.
These items are fairly routine annual filings.
Slide 10 presents our CapEx forecast.
This forecast has been updated with our high-level estimates of the changes in the construction cost timing due to the schedule delay we announced on June 5.
These preliminary estimates reflect a delay in the in-service dates by up to 12 months for Unit 2 and a similar delay for Unit 3.
The consortium consisting of Westinghouse and CB&amp;I provided their preliminary estimates of the cash flow changes for Unit 2 but have yet to revise their estimates for Unit 3.
We have prepared our own estimate internally to evaluate the impact of a similar deferral on Unit 3.
To be clear this is our current best estimate of the impact of the delay and the numbers may shift intra-period as they are refined.
These numbers do not include the potential increased costs of up to $200 million as we have not reached any further conclusions on those matters.
Along the bottom of the slide you can see our anticipated incremental CWIP from July 1 through June 30 for each period on which the BLRA increase is calculated.
Please turn to Slide 11 to review the net change.
This reflects the shift in construction cash flows due to the change in in-service dates.
You will note that incremental CWIP from 2013 to 2015 is lower than filed in the last quarterly BLRA report and is higher beginning in 2016 for the duration of the construction.
Steve will address nuclear construction in a few minutes.
Please turn to Slide 12 to review our estimated financing plan through 2017.
As I mentioned in our last earnings call we settled our equity forward resulting in the issuance of 6.6 million shares in early March.
We don't anticipate any additional equity issuances for the balance of 2013 other than through our 401(k) and dividend reinvestment plans.
Also in June SCE&amp;G issued $400 million in First Mortgage Bonds.
$150 million of this issuance was used to refinance maturing First Mortgage Bonds with the remainder used to repay short-term debt primarily incurred for construction of the new nuclear units.
We've not made any changes in our financing plan at this point due to the shift in the in-service dates as we do not expect the total cost of the project to change significantly.
Once CB&amp;I finalizes its analysis on the construction schedule and related costs we will provide an update on our financing plans.
Now please turn to Slide 13.
We are reaffirming our earnings guidance of $3.25 to $3.45 basic earnings per share along with our internal target of $3.35 per share.
Our long-term outlook remains unchanged as we plan to deliver 3% to 6% earnings growth over the 3- to 5-year period based on 2012 GAAP basic earnings per share of $3.20.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve to provide an update on our nuclear project.
Thanks Jimmy.
Please turn to Slide #14.
Let me start by addressing the topic we discussed at our Analyst Day event as it pertains to the new nuclear in-service dates and the associated costs.
As we stated in New York we expect Unit 2's in-service date to be between the fourth quarter of 2017 and the first quarter of 2018 which is still within the Public Service Commission's 18-month scheduled contingency window for the currently approved in-service date which is March of 2017.
Although we have provided you with a high-level estimate to show the shift in CapEx spend we continue to work with the Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron to finalize how the construction cost will shift as well as determine what the additional costs might be for this delay along with the associated responsibility.
I want to reiterate that our estimated upper bound of the additional cost to SCE&amp;G is approximately $200 million.
We hope to get more definitive information later this year.
I would now like to direct your attention to Slide 15.
As I have mentioned previously in March we completed an over 50 hour continuous pour of nuclear island basemat sometimes referred to as first nuclear concrete for our first new unit which can be seen in the picture at the top of the slide.
The basemat provides a foundation for the containment vessel shield building and auxiliary building that make up the nuclear island.
At the beginning of April we set the 500-ton CR-10 module on the Unit 2 basemat which you can see at the bottom left of the slide.
This module had been previously assembled on-site and was lifted into place using a heavy lift derrick.
CR-10 supports the containment vessel.
As you can see at the bottom right the containment vessel bottom head which was also assembled on-site was lifted into place by the heavy lift derrick in May.
The containment vessel will house numerous reactor system components such as a reactor vessel piping steam generators and the pressurizer.
On the top left of Slide 16 you can see a picture of the Unit 3 containment vessel lower bowl as it begins to take shape on-site.
The top right of that same slide you will see a picture of Cooling Tower 2 Alpha.
All 4 of the low-profile forced draft cooling towers continue to progress as anticipated.
On the bottom left you'll see the Unit 2 Turbine Building.
Placement of the Unit 2 Turbine Building basemat and associated walls has been completed.
At the bottom right you'll see a picture of the Unit 3 Nuclear Island.
We have completed the placement of the dental concrete the leveling concrete a lower mudmat the vapor barrier and the upper mudmat.
Currently the reinforcing bar cage is being assembled and we are on schedule for the first nuclear concrete Unit 3 some time around October of this year.
Early this month we set the first condenser section in the Unit 2 Turbine Building which you can see on Slide 17.
On the top is the lift from the condenser assembly area.
On the bottom left is a mid-air shot.
And on the bottom right is the placement in the Turbine Building basement.
On Slide 18 you'll some components that have arrived on-site.
Across the top you'll see a photo of the Deaerator.
I included this photo to show you the scale of this enormous item.
It's about 140 feet long 18 feet in diameter and its purpose is to strip oxygen from the feedwater system.
On the bottom left you'll see a picture of the Unit 2 Reactor Vessel on-site.
As I'm sure you're aware the Reactor Vessel will house the fuel assemblies.
On the bottom right you'll see the low pressure turbine rotors 2 Alpha and 2 Bravo as they arrive via railcars.
There are 3 low pressure and 1 high pressure turbine rotors for each unit.
Please now turn to Slide 19.
As discussed at Analyst Day in May we filed our Base Load Review Act or BLRA quarterly status update for this first quarter of 2013 with the Public Service Commission as well as our annual request for revised rates under the BLRA.
The Office of Regulatory Staff has completed their review of our request and is recommending to the Commission a $67.2 million revenue increase or a rate increase of 2.87%.
We concur with their recommendation and anticipate the requested increase in rates by November 1.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll now be glad to respond to any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Travis Miller of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> One general question here.
If you look out over the next 3 to 6 months say the second half of the year where do you see the biggest risk? Is it earnings or the operations in general? Is there something at the nuclear plant? Is it something back on just core operations at the utility O&amp;M? Are we just talking about weather? Where is the biggest risk you think to the performance in the second half? Yes so this is Jimmy.
I'll start off and then let Steve jump in here later.
I would say that I feel pretty good about the economy.
We continue to see a lot of announcements but the large industrials are really mixed.
We are seeing some sectors those related to housing and those related to automotive that are doing pretty well and then some of the other sectors are really mixed.
So that's a little bit uncertain kind of like the national news on that front.
O&amp;M I feel like we really got our hands around that and doing a really good job with that.
As I said in the comments a few minutes earlier I think we're in much better position there than we thought we would be 6 months ago.
And then as it relates to weather other than our Georgia business all of our operations are weather-normalized so that's really not an issue for us.
And I'll let Steve speak to more about operations and the project.
I think from the nuclear project perspective the module deliveries out of the CB&amp;I Lake Charles facility is probably our biggest concern.
And when we had in Analyst Day in June in New York we had just received the new schedule from the CB&amp;I Lake Charles facility for some modules delivery to site.
And that prompted us to reevaluate the in-service date for the units.
Since that timeframe they have been beating that schedule.
So that's good news but it's not a real long trend.
So we're still watching the module facility very closely.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's helpful.
And then just one clarification question.
Over the last few months here you shifted the spending from the nuclear plant but no additional spending.
And then you gave a the guidance around the potential for the $200 million.
I'm just -- am I getting that very simply correct? Yes that's right.
And remember the estimate of the $200 million was our estimate not the consortium's estimate of what we think the additional charges could be.
But we haven't yet sorted out let's say responsibility for some of those charges.
So we anticipate that we're going to be doing that over the remainder of this year.
Our next question will come from Andy Levi of Avon Capital.
Just on the O&amp;M could we just go over that again just so I understand? I mean you were pretty clear on it but just -- so originally you were expecting a 5% increase in O&amp;M which half of that was from things that you're getting back from rate cases right? That's right.
And those are if you will fixed -- on fixed amortization.
So that hasn't changed.
And then you expected another 2.5% kind of base O&amp;M growth on top of that but now you're saying that's going to be 1% for a total of 3.5%.
Is that kind of the way to think of it? That's right.
And largely that delta from our earlier projection to kind of our projection as to where we are today has really been driven off of labor and labor-related costs.
We're I don't know 100 125 or so full-time equivalents down from where we were a year ago aside from the new nuclear project which those costs are being capitalized as part of the project.
But we continue to just look for opportunities through attrition and the operations for efficiency.
Okay so that's something that's sustainable and doesn't have to do with the weather or tree trimming or planned outages...
Absolutely.
All that stuff.
Okay.
So we should carry that through? Yes.
Okay great.
That sounds good.
And then on the sales side.
I know you don't have it in your slides.
But do you have any quarterly data for the second quarter residential commercial industrial weather-normalized sales? Yes Andy we really don't present that.
It's just it doesn't have a full cyclical nature of the business in it.
So we tend to just report the 12-month weather-adjusted.
Any flavor you can give us without being specific? Not really.
Okay fair enough.
I mean other than comments I made earlier about industrials et cetera -- I mean look overall the RNC market continues to be very conscious of usage.
So we grew customers at 0.8% percent but overall usage is up 0.2% or so.
So you can tell that although you're adding new customers at a higher rate than your overall consumption's growing then the rest of the base is using less on average.
Part of that is just good news from the effectiveness of some of the demands on management programs that we're promoting the CFL light bulbs et cetera.
Some of those are really taking effect.
Okay.
And then the last question I have is just on the timing/method of new equity.
Any color you can -- I mean obviously you said no new equity this year.
Does that include a possible forward sale? If we should assume that there's no activity this year? Or is that just on the share count type of thing? Yes we really haven't made any decisions around that Andy so I can't be absolutely definitive on it.
But I'll tell you that we really don't see any need until the second half of '14 at the earliest for the actual cash.
And these recent delays in the cash flow that both Stephen and I spoke about only kind of take additional pressure off of that need.
So we're not anxious about doing anything in the near term.
Okay.
So the last thing -- but on top of that as far as on the equity kind of looking at that earnings are coming in a little bit better O&amp;M a little bit better.
Is it possible that the amount of equity that's needed in the future could change or are we kind of set in stone at this point? Certainly not set in stone.
It could be impacted by the factors you mentioned.
It could be impacted by the actual inflation that occurs as we build out the projects.
So one of the most significant variables is the escalation and we have to project that.
And you may recall that we're roughly today projecting the total project SCE&amp;G's share to cost about $0.5 billion less than when we started the project.
And that's largely driven by lower inflation.
Now that could go lower that could go higher.
And if it did generally it would impact equity $0.50 on the dollar and debt $0.50 on the dollar.
Okay.
And obviously debt expenses have been lowered because of lower interest rates in general so...
Absolutely.
And those benefits will anew for 30 years because we're doing 30-year fixed-rate debt.
Our next question will come from Andrew Weisel of Macquarie Capital.
First question I just want to clarify maybe if you can repeat what you said about any changes to the CapEx.
It's changes of timing related to the delays but that does not include your estimate of up to $200 million of additional cost did I hear that right? That's correct.
All we've done is shift the cost for where we think it will occur now.
But as Steve said we've not done anything to incorporate the $200 million because one it's just our internal estimate we've not got it from the consortium.
And two when we do get something from them there will be a lot of discussion and negotiation around whose responsibility that is.
Okay.
And you said that that's the fundamental plan over the rest of the year.
Is your expectation that say by the end of the calendar year you'll have a better sense of that of the sharing in the total costs? We would anticipate that by end of the calendar year we certainly would have a better understanding of both the cost and the cash flows of those costs.
But again if we get into the negotiation process that could be protracted based on our previous history.
It's not to say that it's overly contentious.
It just takes a long time to work through who we think is responsible for what portions of the cost.
Okay.
Then on the changes to the CapEx they're a bit bigger than I was expecting since the Analyst Day.
Can you maybe talk a little bit about why the numbers are 3 digits or 3 -- or almost 200 million for this year? Well I think you need to keep that in perspective.
Let me just start off with this and see if Steve wants to add anything.
But if you look at that net change at the bottom on the 12 months ended June here down in the blue bar that's what's going to drive the BLRA proceedings.
The $141 million shift we estimate at June of '14 is just slightly more than 10% of the CWIP we expect that occur -- incur during that period.
So while they look significant outside of context you put them in context it's really about 10% which doesn't surprise me when you're looking at moving the delivery data the project by 9 to 12 months and you've got 4 or 5 years left to build on it.
That's not surprising to me.
Okay that's pretty helpful.
Then just want to go back to the question on the weather-normalized sales growth.
I understand you don't want to get too specific on the quarterly moves but these are some pretty dramatic changes from the 12 months ended in March.
Residential in particular was 2.5% now it's barely over 0.
I noticed you kind of took out the commentary about the industrial customer that was down and you added this comment that it was adjusted for the leap year.
Is this change mostly a change in the actual trends or in your presentation and accounting for it? No it's not really a change in the accounting.
We're dropping the industrial customer that has been down in the past because most of this tail period now has the industrial customer back in that production that they were in before so it's not -- it's more of an apple and apple now without any type of adjustment.
And then we talked about the leap year last year when it was a positive so we'll talk about it now as it's a negative.
We're just trying to be consistent.
And if you really put these -- if you look on that Slide 7 up in that box on the top right they're really fairly consistent with what we expected when we put our plan together.
So yes sales growth is slightly less than we had expected.
Customer growth is about what we expected.
But O&amp;M costs are less than we had expected.
So we try to really balance that 3-legged stool and those are the key 3 levers for us.
Okay.
So if I can ask it a different way then even though it looks like the second quarter growth really really collapsed you're still confident that that was not a new normal and that the second half we'll see a somewhat meaningful recovery back toward the trend lines that you had expected? Well I can't predict the future that's for sure.
But I still feel confident about our overall plan for the year and our ability to monitor and adjust to the customer margins.
And look we still have growth.
I mean the electric new customers are as high as they've been since prerecession.
The SCE&amp;G gas business hit 2% growth this year in new customers for the first time since 2007 in the housing boom.
So we're adding a lot of new customers.
And PSNC was similar to North Carolina about 2% growth.
The issue is I think just general folks' general uncertainty with the economy.
And is that going to be better in the second half of the year? I don't know.
I mean we've got a lot of discussion that's going to fill up the TV and the Internet.
And in the third quarter with Congress bickering over debt ceilings and budgets and tax reform and things of that nature I'm not sure how that makes folks feel a lot better about their pocketbook.
Okay.
I'm try one different way to ask the same question then.
If the second quarter trend of slowing growth is continued you've already announced these cost controls in lower O&amp;Ms.
Are there more bullets you could throw at this problem or if -- or is that kind of it? And at this point you're hoping for a recovery in sales growth to hit your internal target for the year.
We do not need sales growth to "recover" to hit any internal targets.
We were confident of our plan for the year based on the actions we've taken today because as our early -- earlier question that asked me I said really these cuts that you have made these attrition and labor retirements I mean those folks aren't coming back to work.
Those cost reductions are there and in place.
The next question will come from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just -- and I hate to be the dead horse here my apologies.
I just want to make sure I understand O&amp;M.
When you're talking about O&amp;M you're talking company-wide not just SCE&amp;G? That's right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So company wide year-over-year 3.5% increase from the 2012 GAAP reported nonfuel O&amp;M.
That's right and a little over 2/3 of the related to those fixed amortizations at SCE&amp;G from the rate case.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And those fixed amortizations so that's not a cash -- that's a noncash O&amp;M cost? That's right.
Well at least noncash in '13.
It was cash at some point in the past and just deferred until the rate proceeding last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Since you're moving nuclear capital spending down why not -- before '13 and '14 why not revise down financing needs? Well as I think I said in the comments Michael if I didn't let me be clearer now.
We're constantly monitoring that plan.
What you see here in the CapEx shift is our internal estimates largely.
So we need to get these refined from the consortium and have more concrete numbers.
And if those warrant shifting to capital plans some we will.
The good news is we're not -- we don't have anything in the immediate headlights that we're about to pull the trigger on that's irreversible.
As I said earlier I don't see us doing anything in the equity markets until the second half of '14 at the earliest.
So there's nothing in the near term that says let's make a decision today that's going to impact '14 or '15 before you get all the information you'd like.
I'd rather have more information over the next 6 months and make a better decision.
Research Division</strong> Completely agree.
Last items and these are both nuclear related.
When you think about the move out of the $224 million from the '13 to '15 timeframe into '16 and beyond and the potential for some cost inflation up to $200 million what is that -- which year then becomes the peak CapEx year? It was supposed to be kind of '14 '15-ish timeframe.
Does that change and is the peak year a different year now going forward? Yes I think Slide 10 really is our best estimate today to answer your question.
That's where we've estimated the changes.
And you can see down at the bottom -- we stick on our corporate-wide CapEx to the 3 years that's in the K.
That's why you see '13 '14 '15 presented.
But if you look down below you'll see how we've recapped this for you on June 30 year-end basis related to the project.
So you can still see that June of '14 we still project to be the peak capital year and then it starts to taper down from there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I want to make sure so the blue bar down there that's the June to June nuclear CapEx? That's right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the data you're showing in the table above that's the new adjusted nuclear CapEx or...
That's right on a calendar basis.
And down below is also adjusted but on a mid-year basis because that's how the BLRA is driven.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But neither of which include the potential for any cost increases whether it's $10 million or $200 million or whatever you guys in the consortium wind up negotiating? That's correct.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question will come from Ashar Khan of Visium.
Jimmy I was just trying to -- sorry I joined a little bit late coming in from another call.
I mean the first half you did 50% of earnings.
And as you've done so well did you mention that you can be in the top end of the range for the year or why not? No I didn't mention that.
I did mention though in my earlier comments that there were certain items that we had expected to expend in the first half of the year that we were not able to because of the weather.
We were specifically we've trimmed about 300 miles less of right of ways than we had hoped to and planned to at this point during the year and than we had last year just because it's been so wet in the area.
Our rainfall's up 50% above normal just in the first 6 months of the year.
So the short of that is we expect some of that to turn around in the latter half of the year unless we continue to have incredibly high rainfall.
But isn't there been higher rainfall that's what Southern told us in the whole month of July as well and continuing into August? Well we're only $0.5 billion in August.
I wouldn't get too far into predicting August right now but there has been more into July.
Okay okay.
So you don't think -- so you're above plans for the year or no? That's my basic question right now.
We still feel confident about our internal target.
And we'll reevaluate that as we get through the third quarter.
The second quarter's only 15% of our operating plan for the year just because of the cyclical nature of our businesses.
So really you really need to get through to Q3 before we size up where we are and make any tight estimates for the year.
Okay.
And can we still expect guidance as you've gone back for '14 on the third quarter call? Now that's our plan.
And ladies and gentlemen this will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Jimmy Addison for his closing remarks.
Well thank you very much.
And to summarize we're pleased with the results through midyear.
We remain on track to meet our internal target and continue to focus on providing safe and reliable energy while also staying focused on the execution of the PC summer construction project.
I want to thank you all for us today and thank you for your interest in SCANA.
Ladies and gentlemen the conference has now concluded.
We thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Thursday October 31 2013.
Anyone who does not consent to the taping may drop off the line.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Byron Hinson Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Thank you and welcome to our earnings conference call including those who are joining us on the webcast.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the third quarter of 2013.
Joining us on the call today are: Jimmy Addison SCANA's Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer of SCE&amp;G.
During the call Jimmy will provide an overview of our financial results economic development in our service territory and regulatory activity.
Additionally Steve will provide an update on our new nuclear project.
After our comments we'll respond to your questions.
The slides and the earnings release referred to in this call are available at scana.com.
I would also like to mention that we recently began a new process of posting new nuclear project-related information directly to our website at scana.com.
On the SCANA homepage there's a yellow box containing a link to the new nuclear section of the website.
That section contains a yellow box with a link to project-related news and updates.
It is possible that some of the information that we've posted from time to time may be deemed material information that does not otherwise become public.
This new process replaces our prior practice of furnishing a Form 8-K the quarterly reports that SCE&amp;G submits to the Public Service Commission of South Carolina and South Carolina Office of Regulatory Staff in connection with SCE&amp;G's new nuclear project.
Instead the company now posts copies of those reports in the new nuclear section on the SCANA website.
Finally before I turn the call over to Jimmy I would like remind you that certain statements that may be made during today's call are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as shown on Slide 2.
The company does not recognize an obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Additionally we may disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation.
And the required Reg G information can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website.
I'll now turn the call over to Jimmy.
Thanks Byron and thank you all for joining us today.
I'll begin our earnings discussion on Slide 3.
Basic earnings in the third quarter of 2013 were $0.94 per share compared to $0.93 per share in the same quarter of 2012.
Higher electric and gas margins were principally offset by increases in CapEx-related items including depreciation property taxes and share dilution and a minor increase in O&amp;M.
Please turn to Slide 4.
Basic earnings per share for the 9 months ended September 30 2013 were $2.67 versus $2.41 in 2012.
Similar to the quarter increases in electric and gas margins were partially offset by higher expenses and dilution related to our capital program and minor increases in O&amp;M.
Now on Slide 5 I'd like to briefly review results for our principal lines of business.
South Carolina Electric &amp; Gas Company's third quarter basic earnings denoted in blue were down $0.01 compared to 2012.
Earnings were $139 million for the third quarter of 2013 compared to $132 million for the third quarter of 2012.
Higher margins from base rate increases along with customer growth were offset by increases in operating and maintenance expenses as well as CapEx-related costs including property taxes depreciation and share dilution.
Year-to-date basic earnings were higher by $0.16 due primarily to higher electric and gas margins.
PSNC Energy reported a seasonal loss of $0.03 for the third quarter of 2013 in line with the same period of last year.
For the 9-month period ended September 30 shown in red basic earnings were $0.21 per share also in line with the prior year.
SCANA Energy our retail natural gas marketing business in Georgia shown in green reported a seasonal loss of $0.03 per share for the third quarter consistent with last year.
Year-to-date earnings are up $0.09 primarily due to a return to normal weather during first quarter of 2013.
Additionally I'm pleased to report that SCANA Energy has been granted a 1-year extension to serve as the regulated provider for the state of Georgia.
This additional year will be added on to the current 2-year term and will end in August 2015.
SCANA Energy has served as the regulated provider since the program's inception in 2002.
SCANA's corporate and other businesses reported flat earnings in the third quarter compared to a loss of $0.02 in 2012.
For the 9-month period these businesses reported basic earnings per share of $0.04 in 2013 compared to $0.03 in 2012.
Now I would like to speak about our operation and maintenance expenses for the year.
As we've previously mentioned our strategic goal for 2013 and beyond will be to manage our base retail electric business to prevent the need for base rate increases during the peak nuclear construction years.
One of the instruments in achieving this goal is O&amp;M cost control.
We estimated during the Q2 call that O&amp;M expenses would be approximately 3.5% higher in 2013 with 2.5% driven by specific rate case-related expense and amortizations of previously deferred items.
While these amortizations are occurring as projected the other projected expense growth has been mitigated by cost control efforts such as lower labor cost.
Currently we have approximately 100 fewer employees excluding our nuclear construction activity than we had at the end of September 2012.
The reduced headcount along with lower incentive compensation accruals have resulted in lower O&amp;M labor cost of approximately $10 million compared to last year.
These savings have offset increases in pension cost which were anticipated in our electric rate order and higher health care costs.
Considering the cost control efforts we now project full year O&amp;M expenses to grow at approximately 2.5% over 2012 levels or basically flat excluding the rate case-related items.
I'd like to touch on economic trends in our service territory as shown on Slide 6.
We continue to see new business growth and expansion of existing businesses.
Through the third quarter of this year companies have announced plans to invest approximately $1.75 billion with expectations of creating approximately 7 000 jobs in our Carolinas territories.
We are pleased that this year is shaping up to be another solid year in terms of economic development in our region.
You can see that the national unemployment rate along with the 3 states where SCANA has a presence.
The unemployment rate in SCE&amp;G's electric territory denoted in blue of 7% is 200 basis points better than during the peak of the recession.
And both continues to be favorable compared to the national rate and continues to decline due to the industrial expansion.
The Port of Charleston continues to see increased traffic and finished this June 2013 fiscal year with container volume up 9%.
Also going into fiscal year 2014 the port handled approximately 145 000 units in August which is the highest recorded monthly volume since October of 2008.
Year-to-date fiscal year 2014 container volumes are up 4.5% over the prior year and 1.8% ahead of their plan.
As I mentioned before it's estimated that 1 of every 5 jobs in South Carolina is related to port volume.
This increased traffic is a very good sign for the local economy.
Slide 7 presents customer growth in electric sales.
On the top of the slide are the customer growth rates for each of our regulated businesses.
We continue to see accelerating customer growth in our businesses and in the region.
SCE&amp;G's electric growth is 1.3% the highest it's been since the first quarter of 2009.
And SCE&amp;G's gas growth is at 2.2% its highest level since the third quarter of 2007.
Our regulated gas business in North Carolina grew at 2%.
The bottom table outlines our weather normalized kilowatt hour sales for the quarter in the 12 months ended September 30.
Overall weather normalized sales were down 0.9% for the quarter and 0.6% on a 12-month ended basis.
Industrial sales are showing the most improvement driven by the expansion discussed earlier but are more than offset by the residential and commercial decline.
As I've mentioned previously there continues to be uncertainty around residential average use driven by conservation CFL lightbulb adoption rates and more energy-efficient appliances.
As our customers change their spending habits we tightened our O&amp;M cost control.
I also believe the uncertainty in Washington has been a serious concern to all and has likely impacted spending habits.
Please turn to Slide 8 which recaps our regulatory rate base and returns.
The pie chart on the left presents the components of our regulated rate base of approximately $8.2 billion.
You can see from the items denoted in the 2 shades of blue approximately 85% of this rate base is related to the electric business.
In the block on the top right you will see SCE&amp;G's base electric business in which we are allowed a 10.25% return on equity.
The third quarter earned return in electric business is approximately 9.7%.
Again our strategic goal for 2013 and beyond will be to manage our base retail electric business to prevent the need for non-BLRA-related base rate increases during the peak nuclear construction years.
Control of O&amp;M and non-new nuclear CapEx while monitoring and responding to margin fluctuations is essential to achieving this goal.
Continuing down the page.
On our new nuclear business we are allowed an 11% return on equity.
The South Carolina PSC recently approved our request for revised rates under the BLRA which added incremental CWIP of approximately $570 million to our rate base.
And we will implement a rate increase in November of just under 2.9%.
Our regulated gas businesses in the Carolinas continued to perform well.
We're allowed a return on equity of 10.6% and 10.25% in North and South Carolina respectively and we continue to run those businesses close to those returns.
Along the bottom of the page is our regulatory schedule outside of any Base Load Review Act or BLRA filings.
These items are fairly routine annual filings.
Slide 9 presents our CapEx forecast.
This forecast was updated using the preliminary estimated BLRA third quarter quarterly report cash flows and reflects lower escalation and a shift in the in-service dates by up to 12 months for Unit 2 and a similar delay for Unit 3 as we've previously presented.
Along the bottom of the slide you can see our anticipated incremental CWIP from July 1 through June 30 for each period on which the BLRA increase is calculated.
Please turn now to Slide 10 to review the net change.
This reflects the shift in construction cash flows due to the change in in-service dates and the lower escalation.
You will note that incremental CWIP from 2014 to 2016 is lower than filed in the last quarterly BLRA report driven by the lower escalation.
Steve will provide an update on nuclear construction in a few moments.
Now please turn to Slide 11 to review our estimated financing plan through 2017.
Earlier this year we settled our equity forward resulting in the issuance of 6.6 million shares in early March.
And we do not anticipate any additional equity issuances for the balance of 2013 other than through our 401(k) and dividend reinvestment plans.
In June SCE&amp;G issued $400 million in first mortgage bonds.
$150 million of this issuance was used to refinance maturing first mortgage bonds with the remainder used to repay short-term debt primarily incurred for construction of the new nuclear units.
As a result of the shift in our nuclear spending and lower escalation SCE&amp;G will not need to issue any additional debt in 2013 eliminating the previously planned $200 million Q4 issuance.
We do project that we will need an additional $50 million in the 2016 2017 timeframe but the overall debt plan has been reduced by $150 million over the remaining construction cycle.
As it relates to our equity issuances our additional equity needs denoted in the blue box are projected to be lower over the 4-year period by $75 million.
The new projected additional equity is approximately $425 million rather than the previous estimate of $500 million.
We now estimate that we will issue approximately $100 million in late 2014 $125 million in 2015 and $200 million in the 2016 '17 timeframe reducing the overall equity plan by $75 million over the remaining construction period.
Of course the amounts and timing could change due to a change in inflation bonus depreciation the construction schedule or other factors.
The financing plan CapEx plan and in-service dates for Units 2 and 3 now reflect the current assessment of our new nuclear construction project.
We're very pleased to report that earlier this month we successfully extended our credit facility by 1 year.
As you may recall the committed lines of credit total $1.8 billion.
$1.6 billion covers the entire 5 years and will expire in October 2018.
And an additional $200 million which was added for peak construction liquidity covers 3 years and will expire in October 2016.
The additional liquidity is important to our nuclear construction and the tenors spans substantially all of the planned peak construction period of the new units.
I would again like to thank our banks for their enthusiastic support of our liquidity needs and support of our nuclear expansion plans.
We're also pleased that we received an excellent response for our liquidity needs during nuclear construction from our equity and debt investors.
Now please turn to Slide 12.
We are reaffirming our earnings guidance of $3.25 to $3.45 per basic earnings per share along with our internal target of $3.35 per share.
Our long-term outlook remains unchanged as we plan to deliver 3% to 6% earnings growth over the 3- to 5-year period based on 2012 GAAP basic earnings per share of $3.20.
We plan to provide 2014 annual guidance in our year-end call in February.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve to provide an update on our nuclear project.
Thanks Jimmy.
I will begin by providing an update on the schedule a few details on the related costs progress at CB&amp;I and on-hook dates for our critical path components.
Please turn to Slide 13.
The company is affirming that we expect Unit 2's in-service date to be between the fourth quarter of 2017 and the first quarter of 2018.
This range is still within the Public Service Commission's 18-month scheduled contingency window for the currently approved in-service date which is March of 2017.
The in-service date for Unit 3 will be similarly delayed or roughly 12 months after Unit 2.
The company is also affirming the previously reported upper-bound estimate of approximately $200 million of additional costs associated with this schedule change driven by 3 factors: owners cost EPC cost and escalation.
This $200 million represents SCE&amp;G's 55% share of the project's cost including escalation.
It is important to note that SCE&amp;G has not accepted responsibility for any of the delay costs and expect to continue discussions with the consortium regarding responsibility for any increase.
Additionally our EPC contract provides for liquidated damages in the event of a delay in the completion of the facility which have not been factored into our estimate and would also be included in discussions with the consortium.
In summary we believe SCE&amp;G's responsibility for any portion of the $200 million estimate should ultimately be limited to substantially less once all the relevant factors are considered.
Now I'd like to turn your attention to Slide 14.
CB&amp;I Lake Charles has taken numerous steps in the last quarter to mitigate further delays to the project.
Some of the changes include CB&amp;I Lake Charles facility is now working 2 12-hour shifts 7 days a week.
CB&amp;I facility has also moved fabrication of several components to other vendors in an effort to relieve the burden on the facility.
Fabrication of module CA-03 has been moved to Pegasus Steel's facility in North Charleston South Carolina.
Fabrication of shield building structural modules has been assigned to Newport News Industries or NNI.
CB&amp;I also moved fabrication of CA-04 to the V.C.
Summer site for completion.
As it relates to submodules all of the submodules required to assemble CA-20 to be able to meet its on-hook date are now on-site at V.C.
Summer.
I'll address CA-20 and on-hook dates later in my comments.
The descoping and shipment of submodules has opened up floor space allowing fabrication of more submodules for the critical path component of CA-01.
I'll discuss this a little more in detail later in my comments.
The cost of moving fabrication activities to other vendors in an effort to relieve the burden on the facility are at the contractors' convenience and as such would be the responsibility of the consortium.
Additionally we have visited both Pegasus and NNI and feel confident in their nuclear safety culture of these facilities and that they meet industry expectations.
I also wanted to give you a brief update on the on-hook dates for some of the structural modules.
The on-hook date is when fabrication of an assembled module at our V.C.
Summer site will be complete and it is ready to be placed on the hook of the heavy lift derrick.
Module CA-20 seen on Slide 15 is an ancillary building module that will be located outside and adjacent to the containment vessel.
Here you can see a portion of this module on-site in the Module Assembly Building at the V.C.
Summer facility.
This module has on-hook date of Q1 of 2014.
We recently agreed to receive certain CA-20 submodules from the Lake Charles facility that will allow minor rework and paperwork completion at the V.C.
Summer site.
This will free up additional space at the Lake Charles facility.
Module CA-01 on Slide 16 is a steam generator and refueling canal module that will be located inside the containment vessel.
On-site fabrication of this module for our project has not yet begun.
But here you can see a photo provided by Westinghouse of CA-01 at one of the China sites.
This module has an on-hook date of Q3 of 2014.
Finally module CA-03 on Slide 17.
It's a Southwest wall module of the in-reactor water storage tank inside of the containment vessel.
Fabrication of this module for our project has also not yet begun.
Here you can see a photo provided by Westinghouse of a portion of this module at a similar AP1000 plant being lifted for placement.
This module has on-hook date of Q4 of 2014.
On Slide 18 you can see a summary that outlines the on-hook dates for these 3 modules.
I would now like to direct your attention to the recent activities at the site on Slide 19.
As I've mentioned previously we completed an over-50-hour continuous pour of the nuclear island basemat sometimes referred to as first nuclear concrete for our first new unit which can be seen in the picture at the top of the slide.
The basemat provides a foundation for the containment vessel shield building and auxiliary building that make up the nuclear island.
At the beginning of April we set the 500-ton CR-10 module on the Unit 2 basemat.
You can see this module at the bottom left of the slide.
This module had been previously assembled on-site and was lifted in place using the heavy lift derrick.
CR-10 supports the containment vessel.
As you can see at the bottom right the containment vessel bottom head which was also assembled on-site was lifted into place by the heavy lift derrick in May.
The containment vessel will house numerous reactor system components such as reactor vessel piping steam generators and the pressurizer.
On Slide 20 you can see pictures of the placement on the CA-04 reactor vessel cavity for Unit 2.
This component was built on-site.
In late September this module was placed in the containment vessel bottom head.
Its purpose is to house the reactor vessel which we'll show you a picture of shortly.
On the top of Slide 21 you can see a picture of the first containment vessel ring for Unit 2 which will be placed on the containment vessel bottom head.
As pointed out in the photo this section of rings contains penetrations for equipment and personnel access.
At the top right of the same slide you'll see a picture of Cooling Tower 2 Alpha.
Cooling Tower 2 Alpha is structurally complete and is being fitted with electrical and mechanical components.
All 4 of the low-profile forced draft cooling towers continued to progress as anticipated.
At the bottom left you will see a picture of the Unit 3 Nuclear Island.
We have completed the placement of the dental concrete the leveling concrete the lower mudmat the vapor barrier and the upper mudmat.
The reinforcement barricades has been assembled and we plan to pour the first nuclear concrete for this unit this quarter.
Again this basemat provides a foundation for the containment vessel shield building and auxiliary building that make up the nuclear island for Unit 3.
On the bottom right you will see the Unit 2 Turbine Building.
Placement of the Unit 2 Turbine Building basemat and associated walls has been completed.
On Slide 22 you can see where the first of 3 lower condenser sections was set in the Unit 2 Turbine Building in July.
This was the Bravo condenser.
The Charlie condenser has also been set and the Alpha is scheduled to be set sometime soon.
On Slide 23 you can see a schematic of how the various turbine building models will look when complete.
The 5 modules that are highlighted in green have been placed in the final locations.
That's CH-80 CH-81 Alpha CH-81 Bravo and the previously discussed 2 lower condensers.
Slide 24 shows the turbine building with the aforementioned modules in place.
The Alpha condenser will be set between CH-81 Alpha and CH-80.
On Slide 25 you'll see some components that have arrived on-site.
On the top you'll see a picture of the Unit 2 Reactor Vessel.
The reactor vessel will sit inside of module CA-04 which has been placed in the Unit 2 containment vessel bottom head and will house the fuel assemblies.
On the bottom right you see the low-pressure turbine rotors 2 Alpha and 2 Bravo as they arrive via railcar.
There are 3 low-pressure and 1 high-pressure driven rotor for each of the new units.
On the bottom left you see 1 of 2 moisture separator reheaters being lifted with the heavy lift derrick.
On Slide 26 you see the new nuclear CapEx over the life of construction.
This chart shows the CWIP during the years 2008 to 2018.
It has been updated to reflect our estimates that will be in our Q3 2013 BLRA quarterly report.
That report will be filed around November 8 of this year.
As you can see the next several years are considered the peak nuclear construction period.
The green line represents the related projected customer rate increases under the Base Load Review Act.
Please now turn to Slide 27.
As we mentioned in our second quarter call we filed our annual request for revised rates under the Base Load Review Act in May.
In response to that request in September the Public Service Commission of South Carolina approved an increase of $67.2 million.
The new rates were effective for builds rendered on or after October 30.
Our BLRA filings for 2013 are shown at the bottom of the slide.
And as you can see in August we filed our quarterly status report on our new nuclear project with the commission and the Office of Regulatory Staff for the second quarter of 2013.
And as I mentioned we intend to file our quarterly status report for the third quarter of 2013 in November.
On Slide 28 you will see a breakout of total nuclear project costs.
On the far right you can see our estimate for the November 2013 BLRA project cost which is down approximately $150 million from our August 2013 BLRA report and approximately $663 million from the original approval received from the South Carolina Public Service Commission.
As you can see and as Jimmy mentioned earlier this change is largely attributable to lower escalation.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll now be glad to respond to any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Julien Dumoulin-Smith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to kind of talk to you about sort of the longer-term growth rates here.
You heard your colleague to the South talk about it yesterday.
As you see beyond the current construction program how do you think about your EPS growth rate in the 3% to 6% you've discussed? Well our range for a 3- to 5-year period.
And that really takes us through -- I mean we still have construction going on through that entire period.
So we really don't -- haven't provided any outlook beyond that period not prepared to today.
Our next question comes from Ashar Khan of Visium.
So if I look at Slide 4 we are $2.67 basic EPS year-to-date.
And if I'm right last year we earned around $0.78 in the fourth quarter in December.
So if one assumes that we earn at a similar level we come to like $3.45 for the whole year.
So at the rate at the top of the guidance is there something in the fourth quarter which is going to be abnormal or anything? I'm just trying to see why the guidance was -- why aren't you pointing towards the upper end of the guidance for the year? Or am I missing something which is there in the fourth quarter? I'd say Ashar 2 primary reasons.
Number one we continue to watch this consumption issue that was highlighted over on Page 7 I believe it is.
So we've got a little bit of a hedge built in for what we've seen in the last couple of quarters there with lower consumption particularly in the residential small commercial side.
And then the second is in my comments there earlier so year-to-date we're basically flat year-over-year O&amp;M.
But we really project our year-over-year as of 12/31 to be more like 2% to 2.5% above last year.
So we have some projects in the fossil hydro area that are going to occur in the fourth quarter that are O&amp;M-related.
We have health care cost trends that we know are going to impact us.
We got in one of our property tax bills after we closed the books for September for one of our larger counties.
So that's part of what we're contemplating in there as well.
But I understand your comment.
And if you ask me my bias today it's on the upper end of the $3.35.
I would have more of a bias towards being above that than below it.
And frankly most of the guys on the street are already there.
I looked at it earlier today and I think a half dozen or more are between $3.35 and $3.40 already.
And then to build upon that Jimmy 2014 as you show in your slides the AFUDC is higher.
The rate increase under the BLRA is higher.
And now of course the equity is going to come in at the end of the year which was always forecast.
But of course now the amount is lower.
And the debt requirements you have also lowered.
So does that not -- should one not assume that we should be again that the upper end of the growth rate has moved from '13 to '14? Well costs are changing too.
So we're in an economy now that has some inflation in it.
So we are granting pay increases year-over-year now.
We're hiring folks at the nuclear project so we're bringing more folks online there.
And I'd say the main thing Ashar though is continue just watching this consumption issue what's going on in the base business.
Even though our growth rates of number of customers is accelerating folks are still concerned about the economy.
And that's clear in our data as well as others.
I saw just yesterday consumer confidence dropped over 15% from quarter-to-quarter.
So I think until there's a clearer picture nationally that Washington has gotten their act together and that the economy is going to get on some solid footing I think we're all wiser to be a little cautious.
Our next question will come from Travis Miller of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up a little bit on the demand stuff on Slide 7 that you're looking at.
If I look at the top box and I see the customer growth and if I kind of look over the last couple of quarters it may be averaging 1% or so.
But then I look at the bottom box and we see especially the residential commercial down I don't know call it what 1.5%.
Does that mean that your actual per customer usage is going down call it 2% or something more than that 1.5%? Wondering if I was reading that right and if you could clarify that.
No I think you're exactly right.
I mean that's what's going on the last couple of quarters.
We have generally used 12-month numbers to present for this information.
I got several requests last quarter from you guys to give separate quarterly data so we've begun doing that.
But there's a lot of volatility in quarterly data.
I look back over the last 3 years and we've had 6 quarters where it's been up 5 quarters where it's been down just over the last I guess 2 years and 3 quarters here.
So there's a lot of volatility that happens in there.
And some of those have been up as much as 10% and down as much as 5%.
So it was just the economy the volatility the fits and starts of the economy.
There's no clear direction at this point.
The one thing I'd take away from this that is more consistent are the consistent 2-plus years of good solid economic announcements we've had here with good solid jobs.
And a lot of those announcements from 1 year or 18 months ago are turning into hard jobs now once the sites are built out et cetera from the tire industry pharmaceuticals and others.
And the industrial sales are moving in the right direction.
And that ultimately translates into more confidence in the local economy and in the commercial area.
I think the data I cited earlier around the Port of Charleston their traffic is a good long-term indicator too.
But folks are still concerned.
And I still think their biggest kind of reservation maybe the lack of coming to any conclusions in Washington.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then to follow up on that kind of take the next step there what's that long-term projection for demands that we should think about in that 3% to 6% earnings growth? And then tied to that that 9.7% earned ROE how much of that is demand? If we see I presume if we were to see kind of continued 2% demand shrinking that would have a big impact on the 3% to 6% earnings growth rate.
Well it would affect if it continues for a long period of time.
So here's what we see and it's just our projection.
But what we see is industrial demand continuing to grow.
And in the short term the next 18 24 months we continue to see pressure on particularly the residential segment as more of the efficiency standards move through the residential class CFL lightbulbs higher-efficiency HVAC systems lower electric-consuming TVs et cetera.
That's already happened in the industrial sector and to a large sector in the commercial segment as well.
But that is really what we see driving the short term in the residential segment.
But in the long term we really see kind of a net growth of slightly above 1% in the long-term demand.
And that's what is really driving our generation expansion down the road.
The next question will come from Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
I wanted to follow up on this a little bit because you're right it is volatile from quarter-to-quarter.
But it's so volatile it seems that the last 6 months the 12-month number has gone from a positive 1.3% to now a negative number.
And the components there above have also changed.
And to sort of follow up on Travis' question here you're -- it sounded to me like you're sort of projecting perhaps negative growth for the next 18 months.
Is that right? Well we certainly see the residential segment having pressure on it just because of the efficiencies moving through.
I mean there aren't any more incandescent lightbulbs being manufactured.
So they have to as lightbulbs [indiscernible] drop off now they've got to put CFL bulbs in.
And they are more energy-efficient.
So we see that in our projections over the next couple of years.
Okay.
So when you mentioned the Washington impact or just the sort of economic uncertainty impact would you say that's -- how would you compare that impact to this just sort of what we're seeing in terms of energy efficiency for appliances lightbulbs that kind of activity? Yes.
Well in our footprint let's take before any of the new lighting standards moved through.
Roughly 12% of our sales residential sales were driven by lighting.
Once all of the current technology efficiencies move through the entire run we see lighting making up about 6%.
So the question is how fast has it moved through? And then what else is going on as far as conservation and just general uncertainty in the economy as it affects the residential customer? The price of gasoline fluctuations et cetera what else causes the fits and starts in between? But we know somewhere at the end of this there's going to be about a 6% change in the overall footprint if you will of the residential consumption related to lighting.
Okay.
So we're at 12% now is that correct? Before the reduced consumption started.
And when did happen? 18 months 24 months ago.
I don't know precisely Paul.
Okay.
I guess I mean I don't mean to put you on spot here.
But I'm just wondering do you know where we are right now like in terms of where we are in the forecast on this? Because like you said that's a huge decrease...
I don't know on that specific item no.
And I don't know that it's -- that's a survey-type data.
I don't know that -- it isn't like I don't have it at my fingertips.
I don't know that we can get it.
I don't know when every household has changed every bulb.
Yes that would be a little bit intrusive.
Yes.
Okay.
So okay fair enough.
I mean very interesting.
Now in terms of the -- do you guys have any update or any information from your partners Santee Cooper in terms of what might happen with the disposition of their ownership? Yes Paul this is Steve.
They're still interested in dispositioning their ownership.
I think they're still interested in somewhere around the 10% share.
As we understand it they're still in discussions with Duke.
And beyond that I don't know that I can comment.
You'd probably have to ask Santee Cooper.
Sure.
Any timeframe or any concept as to when we might get a decision one way or the other? That's up to Santee and Duke.
But we would welcome Duke as a partner.
Our next question will come from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Jimmy Steve real quick just when thinking about the revisions to the nuclear capital spending schedule big picture relative to the last formal filing where you outlined -- it's kind of a headwind or a tailwind when you think about the impact on near term let's say 2014 or 2015 earnings power? Well I think it's -- if you think about -- if you're saying headwind in terms of lower BLRA increases I think it is a headwind because there's lower cash flows forecasted in the next 2 to 3 years.
And also the lower escalation I mean inflation continues to come down compared to what we originally projected another $140 million lower in this recent data we just received last week.
So that certainly would lower the expected increases and revenue increases related to that.
But we don't necessarily view that as a negative.
I mean that's -- it really helps kind of flatten the impact on the customer.
So we think that's a good thing in the long run.
Research Division</strong> But should we be thinking of it is it gives you lower CapEx partially offset by lower financing needs.
So lower revenue increases partially offset by lower financing needs but then also it implies lower AFUDC.
Am I kind of thinking about the 3 buckets in the right way? Yes I think so.
But the lower revenue and the lower financing costs I mean that's not a wash.
Obviously there's return built into the BLRA revenue for the equity side.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And talking about the demand we've seen this with a couple of other Southeast utilities where industrial demand is actually making a pretty positive uptick.
Have you done any work around historically near term and long the lag between industrial recovery and trends in residential and small commercial maybe separate trends kind of how they correlate to industrial recovery and how maybe that trend has changed versus industrial? Meaning do you typically or historically see a real-time change in residential and small commercial when you're seeing a change in industrial? Or does resi and small commercial lag industrial recovery or precede it? Yes.
Michael I don't have anything objective to give you a kind of a 6- 9- 12-month answer.
But I'll tell you I do know that the residential customer generally lags going into a recession and kind of lags coming out because those jobs have to come up.
They have to become employed.
They have to dig out of their own personal holes they might have been in.
And then they feel freer to have some discretionary income to spend and they're less focused on conservation that kind of thing.
But certainly the dynamic is as you described it but I can't tell you exactly the timing around it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last item can you talk a little bit -- you gave a lot of great economic detail in terms of what's happening in your service territory.
Can you talk a little bit about housing starts what you're seeing locally meaning in your sort of gas and electric service territories in terms of housing starts kind of growth rates and occupancy rates? Yes.
I don't have any of that objective data at my fingerprints.
I've seen some recently.
I just don't have it with me here Michael.
But it's fairly consistent with last year.
And on the occupancy rates particularly I was looking in a couple of our metro areas that we serve and the electricity footprint and the -- for example office occupancy is down to some of its lowest levels since before the recession in Columbia and Charleston.
So both of those markets are getting fairly fairly low levels of available office space too.
But I don't have any of the exact numbers with me.
We think that's public information.
We can get it and Christina can follow up with you later with it.
The next question will come from Andy Levi of Avon Capital.
Hey just a couple of questions.
On O&amp;M going forward I know you haven't given a forecast for '14.
But can just talk on a high level your ability to keep O&amp;M growing slower or cut some costs relative to your lower residential sales expectations? Yes.
I think there is still some more room there.
I do think probably the pace that we've been on the last couple of years particularly in retaining attrition netting down lower headcount I think the pace of that is going to have to slow.
If you just look across the different regulated businesses we have we probably got 10 000 12 000 more customers than we had a year ago and we're serving them with 100 fewer employees.
You can't continue that long term and keep your focus on customer service reliability and safety.
But I think there's still some more opportunity there particularly as technology and a variety of areas offers more efficiency.
I'd say kind of getting at the heart of your question I do see O&amp;M for '14 likely higher.
We'll be out with our official forecast in the year-end call.
But I'd probably say it's going to be more like the year-end range we're expecting now of something around 2% or so.
Okay.
And just on the equity.
So equity end of '14 it's $100 million of DRIP and $100 million of new equities.
Is the way I read it? Right.
We originally had $275 million of additional equity in '14.
And now with the shift in the project and the lower escalation we see only needing about $100 million late in '14.
And then CWIP is what about $141 million lower.
Is that correct? Well let's see here.
CWIP is $141 million lower for the June 30 '14.
For calendar '13 and '14 together it's probably about the same number ironically for a different reason but about $140 million lower.
So I guess if we kind of run through the numbers the lower equity kind of almost offsets the CWIP over a 12-month period? Yes.
And there's lots of other moving parts out too operating cash flows et cetera.
But yes on a simplistic basis that's true.
Okay.
And then last question I have it just seems on the nuclear just to make sure I understand kind of what Steve went through.
So schedule-wise you're still on still very confident about your schedule that you've reset in June.
CBI (sic) [CB&amp;I] and situations at Lake Charles seems to be improving.
And bottom line is you're actually spending less not spending more than what you thought in June.
Is that kind of a fair summary? Yes I think you captured it pretty well.
[Operator Instructions] The next question will come from Andrew Weisel of Macquarie.
You've covered most of what I was going to ask about.
But just briefly the new nuclear project cost coming down from the August BLRA to the November did I hear you right that that's almost entirely just lower escalation? That's right.
Okay great.
And then lastly the $200 million that's being negotiated.
Just conceptually I mean the Office of Regulatory Staff made it pretty clear in their report that the modules were delivered with welding that didn't meet regulatory requirements.
I'm just wondering why is this even a debate.
It seems like it's pretty clear that from the outside that that should be paid for by CBI (sic) [CB&amp;I] not you guys.
But maybe you can explain some of the counterpoints to that.
And then lastly just touch on the timing.
Do you still think that will be resolved by year end? The resolution I'm not sure it would be resolved by year end.
And it isn't as if I'm going to be given a change order to say "Here you owe me $200 million more." This is an estimate that we put together try to bound what the costs would be.
And obviously we believe that they will be less than that $200 million figure.
That's all of our 55% piece representing SCE&amp;G's ownership in the project.
And while on the surface I would agree with you that the issues coming out of the modules at Lake Charles should be the responsibility of the consortium I've been at this long enough to know that the consortium may not see it that way.
So we're just anticipating a fervent discussion with them.
And we're hopeful of a positive outcome that will be fair to both sides.
And ladies and gentlemen this will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Jimmy Addison for his closing remarks.
Well thank you.
And just to summarize we're pleased with our results through September and we remain on track to meet our internal target as well as our guidance while continuing to focus on providing safe and reliable energy while also staying focused on executing the V.C.
Summer construction project.
We appreciate you joining us today and for your interest in SCANA.
Ladies and gentlemen the conference has now concluded.
We thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Thursday February 20 2014.
Anyone who does not consent to the taping may drop off the line.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Byron Hinson Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Thank you and welcome to our earnings conference call including those who are joining us on the webcast.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2013.
Joining us in the call today are Jimmy Addison SCANA's Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer of SCE&amp;G.
During the call Jimmy will provide an overview of our financial results economic development in our service territory and regulatory activity.
Additionally Steve will provide an update on our new nuclear project.
After our comments we will respond to your questions.
The slides and the earnings release referred to in this call are available at scana.com.
I would also like to mention again that we now post new nuclear project-related information directly to our website at scana.com.
On SCANA's Home page there's a yellow box containing a link to the new nuclear section of the website that contains a link to project news and updates.
It is possible that some of the information that we will be posting from time to time may be deemed material information that has not otherwise become public.
In connection with this process we have discontinued our prior practice of furnishing on Form 8-K the quarterly reports that SCE&amp;G submits to the Public Service Commission of South Carolina and the South Carolina Office of Regulatory Staff for SCE&amp;G's new nuclear projects.
Instead the company now posts copies of these reports in the new nuclear section of the SCANA website.
Finally before I turn the call over to Jimmy I would like to remind you that certain statements that may be made today on the call are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as shown on Slide 2.
The company does not recognize an obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Additionally we may disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation and the required Reg G information can be found on the company's Investor Relations section of the website.
I'll now turn the call over to Jimmy.
Thanks Byron.
And thank you all for joining us today.
I'll begin our earnings discussion on Slide 3.
Basic earnings in the fourth quarter of 2013 were $0.73 per share compared to $0.79 per share in the same quarter of 2012.
Higher margins from base rate increases and customer growth were more than offset by expected increases in operation and maintenance expenses and CapEx-related items including depreciation property taxes and share dilution.
You will also note in the footnote at the bottom of the slide that other income in Q4 of 2012 included the impact of some tower sales at our telecom subsidiary as we do in the normal course of business from time to time.
There were no such sales in 2013.
Please turn to Slide 4.
Basic earnings per share for the full year of 2013 were $3.40 versus $3.20 in 2012.
Increases in electric margin due primarily to base rate increases and customer growth as well as higher gas margins were partially offset by increases in O&amp;M and higher expenses and dilution related to our capital program.
Results in the upper half of our guidance are consistent with our message on the Third Quarter Call in October.
For the year our O&amp;M increased approximately 2.5% over 2012 principally due to specific rate-case-related expenses and the amortization of previously deferred items.
The additional O&amp;M increases that we had projected at the beginning of the year were largely mitigated by cost-control efforts such as lower labor cost due to attrition.
These cost-control efforts along with other items such as lower incentive comp accruals resulted in relatively flat O&amp;M growth year-over-year except for the regulatory amortizations.
Now on Slide 5 I'd like to briefly review results for our principal lines of business.
South Carolina Electric &amp; Gas Company's full year 2013 earnings were up $0.13 compared to 2012 driven largely by higher margins from an electric base rate increase as well as increases under the Base Load Review Act and the gas rate stabilization act along with customer growth.
These increases were partially offset by increases in operation and maintenance expenses property taxes interest and depreciation expenses and share dilution.
For the fourth quarter SCE&amp;G's earnings were $0.03 lower than the same period last year due mainly to dilution.
PSNC Energy's earnings for 2013 were $0.37 per share compared to $0.38 per share in 2012.
Increased margins from customer growth were offset by higher operations and maintenance expenses depreciation and dilution.
Similar to the full year the fourth quarter was down $0.01.
The earnings for SCANA Energy our retail natural gas marketing business in Georgia in green showed an increase of $0.09 over last year primarily due to a return to normal weather during the first quarter of 2013.
For the quarter SCANA Energy's earnings were $0.06 equal to the same period of last year.
SCANA's corporate and other businesses reported flat earnings in the fourth quarter compared to a gain of $0.02 in 2012 related to the 2012 tower sales noted earlier.
For the full year these businesses reported basic earnings per share of $0.04 in 2013 compared to $0.05 in 2012.
I would like to touch on economic trends in our service territory on Slide 6.
We continued to see new business growth and expansion of existing businesses.
During 2013 companies announced plans to invest approximately $2.5 billion with expectations of creating approximately 10 000 jobs in our Carolinas territories.
We're excited about the continued economic development in the region.
At the bottom of the slide you can see that the national unemployment rate along with the 3 states where SCANA has a presence and the SCE&amp;G electric territory.
While all these states continue to show marked improvement the Carolinas are benefiting greatly from the industrial expansion.
Specifically South Carolina's jobless rate dropped below the national average for the first time since 2001.
South Carolina's unemployment rate is now 6.6% and the rate in SCE&amp;G's electric territory is estimated at 5.4%.
Another positive data point on the economy is the recent United Van Lines' annual migration study.
South Carolina and North Carolina ranked second and third respectively in terms of domestic migration destinations corroborating our realized customer growth.
These are all very positive signs for our territories.
Slide 7 presents customer growth in electric sales.
On the top of the slide are the customer growth rates for each of our regulated businesses.
We continue to see strong customer growth in our businesses and in the region.
SCE&amp;G's electric and gas growth rates for the year are 1.2% and 2.1% respectively.
Our regulated gas businesses in North Carolina added customers at a 2.3% rate.
The bottom table outlines our weather-normalized kilowatt hour sales for the quarter and the full year.
Overall weather-normalized total retail sales were up 1.9% for the fourth quarter and down 0.5% on a 12-month-ended basis.
We are particularly encouraged by the industrial expansion which has been mitigated by the efficiency and conservation into residential and commercial markets.
Now please turn to Slide 8 which recaps our regulatory rate base and returns.
The pie chart on the left presents the components of our regulated rate base of approximately $8.2 billion.
As denoted in the 2 shades of blue approximately 85% of this rate base is related to the electric business.
In the block on the top right you will see SCE&amp;G's base electric business in which we are allowed a 10.25% return on equity.
The 2013 earned return in the electric business is approximately 9.5% well within our stated goal of earning a return of 9% or higher to prevent the need for non-BLRA-related base rate increases during the peak nuclear construction years.
Control of O&amp;M and non-new nuclear CapEx while monitoring and responding to margin fluctuations is essential to achieving this goal.
We're very pleased with the execution of our strategy.
Continuing down the page on our new nuclear business we are allowed an 11% return on equity.
The South Carolina PSC approved our request for revised rates under the BLRA which added incremental CWIP of approximately $570 million to our rate base and increased rates just under 2.9% in November.
Our regulated gas businesses in the Carolinas continued to perform well.
We're allowed a return on equity of 10.6% and 10.25% in North and South Carolina respectively and we continue to operate these businesses close to those returns.
Along the bottom of the page is our regulatory schedule exclusive of BLRA filings.
These items are fairly routine annual filings.
Slide 9 presents our updated CapEx forecast.
The CapEx at new nuclear reflects Westinghouse and CB&amp;I's projected cash flow estimates supporting the current in-service ranges for Units 2 and 3.
The projected cash flow reflects changes made by the consortium and the timing of certain payments.
These projected cash flow estimates do not include the estimated $200 million in-service delay cost.
The previous cash flow estimates were SCANA's internal estimates with input from Westinghouse and CB&amp;I.
Forecasted CapEx in SCE&amp;G outside of the new nuclear deployment increased slightly due to increased projected capital expenditures in our generation transmission and distribution categories.
Capital expenditures at remaining subsidiaries remain largely consistent.
Along the bottom of the slide you can see our anticipated incremental CWIP from July 1 through June 30 for each period on which the BLRA increase is calculated.
Now please turn to Slide 10 to review our estimated financing plan through 2018.
The slide is consistent with the forecast from our last calls other than the addition of 2018.
To summarize our financing for 2013: We successfully settled our equity forward resulting in the issuance of 6.6 million shares in early March and executed on-plan the equity financing through our 401(k) and reinvestment plans.
SCE&amp;G also issued $400 million in first mortgage bonds in June.
The financing plan CapEx plan and in-service dates for Unit 2 and 3 reflect the current assessment of our new nuclear construction project as well as other projects.
Of course the amounts and timing could change due to inflation construction schedule or other factors.
I would now like to discuss our 2014 weather-normalized earnings guidance and related assumptions as shown on Slide 11.
Our 2014 guidance is $3.45 to $3.65 per share and our internal target is $3.55 per share.
Due to the cyclical nature of our business we expect to earn approximately 30% of this amount in each of the first and third quarters approximately 25% in the fourth quarter and the remainder in the second quarter.
Additionally we are resetting our base year to 2013 based on 2013 GAAP basic EPS of $3.40 per share.
In computing this guidance range we have included the impact of base rate increases from our new nuclear filings under the BLRA.
This guidance also incorporates the CapEx and financing plans we presented earlier.
Additionally while we anticipate the number of customers will continue to increase our assumption of customer average use of electricity is slightly lower next year to reflect current energy efficiency trends.
We anticipate overall retail sales growth for 2014 to decline by approximately 0.2%.
We forecast customer growth to be similar to 2013.
We expect operating and maintenance expenses to be approximately 3% higher in 2014 compared to 2013 actuals.
We also expect continued growth in the CapEx-related costs of property taxes depreciation and interest.
Our effective tax rate for 2013 was approximately 32% and we estimate the rate for 2014 will be similar.
Keeping in mind our internal target of $3.55 let's discuss potential upside and downside variables to our 2014 earnings range.
There are several factors that could cause us to trend towards the lower end of our guidance.
We continue to see fluctuations in average use.
There continues to be industry uncertainty around electricity consumption and as a result we have forecasted average use to be slightly lower.
Average use could come in lower than forecast due to higher efficiency adoption rates or simply conservation.
Customer growth continues to be a bright spot in our service territory.
We are currently forecasting an increase for 2014.
However if customer growth comes in lower than expected this could negatively impact earnings.
Additionally if nuclear spending were to shift to later years it would impact our earnings.
In contrast there are several factors that could push us towards the upper end of our guidance.
If average use were to increase or come in better than in 2013 or customer growth accelerates beyond 2013 levels we could have potential upside.
Finally as we reported last year the pilot weather-normalization program in the electric sector ended as of December 2013 and we will see the impact of weather in our financials prospectively.
Hopefully this should provide you with a line of sight into our view of 2014 as you update your models.
I also wanted to mention that earlier today we announced an increase to our annual dividend rate for 2014 to $2.10 per share a 3.5% increase.
The results of 2013 and confidence in the long-term strategy were key considerations.
We are not -- now back within our stated payout policy of 55% to 60% and expect to grow dividends fairly consistent with earnings prospectively.
Please turn to Slide 12.
On January 27 we announced plans to increase our ownership in the V.C.
Summer new nuclear units by 5% in the future.
I will comment on a few financial matters related to this transaction and Steve will comment later on the incremental capacity.
As noted on the table each incremented ownership interest will be funded with internal cash flow driven largely by depreciation associated with the 2 new units.
As a result we do not expect to access the capital markets to fund this increase.
This transaction will not occur until Unit 2 is complete and therefore no change in the base load review formulaic increases will occur.
Additionally the estimated $500 million purchase will add to SCE&amp;G's rate base incrementally with each annual purchase.
And we will work to develop a plan to mitigate and possibly eliminate any upward pressure on customers' rates due to this purchase in the future.
In summary we're very pleased with this transaction as it will add to base load generation for the long-term benefit of South Carolinians.
We plan to file a petition with the Public Service Commission of South Carolina for approval of the transaction later this year.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve to further describe the impact of the transaction on our reserve margin and operations as well as an update on our nuclear project.
Thanks Jimmy.
I'd like to continue the discussion on the agreement with Santee Cooper.
In looking at our future generation needs in the integrated resource plan the company decided that purchasing additional nuclear power was a great fit to help us replace a portion of the older coal-fired plants we expect to retire over the next few years and delay our need to build new gas-fired capacity after the year 2020.
The structure of the 5% acquisition will happen in 3 stages.
The first stage is triggered by the commercial operation date of the first new nuclear unit which is currently anticipated to be late 2017 or the first quarter of 2018.
At the time of commercial operation of the first new nuclear unit we will acquire 1% or approximately 22 megawatts with an additional 2% or 44 megawatts to be acquired no later than the first anniversary of the commercial operation date and the final 2% or 44 megawatts being acquired no later than the second anniversary of the commercial operation date.
This approach keeps our reserve margins within our committed targets of 14% to 20%.
Now I'd like to outline the impact of the additional 110 megawatts on our generation mix as we dispatch our plants.
On Slide 13 you can see our generation mix by dispatch and capacity.
This is then updated to reflect the effects of the additional 5% share of the new nuclear generation through 2020.
This additional phased increment still maintains our balanced approach to capacity keeping nuclear coal and gas at roughly 1/3 each with the remainder of our generation in hydro biomass and solar.
From an operational perspective this non-emitting base load generation will fit nicely into our system and allow us to forestall the addition of peaking generators while satisfying Santee Cooper's needs to divest of some of their share.
I'll now provide an update on our new nuclear construction project.
Please turn to Slide 14.
The company is reaffirming that we expect Unit 2's in-service date to be between the fourth quarter of 2017 and the first quarter of 2018.
This date is still within the Public Service Commission's 18-month schedule contingency window for the currently approved in-service date which is March of 2017.
In-service date for Unit 3 will be similarly delayed or roughly 12 months after Unit 2.
The company is also reaffirming the previously reported estimate of approximately $200 million of additional costs associated with this schedule change.
While we continue our discussions with the consortium we believe SCE&amp;G's responsibility for any portion of the $200 million estimate should ultimately be limited to substantially less once all of the relevant factors are considered.
I'll now provide a brief update to the on hook dates for some of our structural modules.
As I previously mentioned the on hook date is when fabrication of an assembled module at our V.C.
Summer site will allow it to be placed on the hook of the heavy lift derrick.
Module CA-20 see on Slide 15 is an auxiliary building module that will be located outside and adjacent to the containment vessel.
All CA-20 structural submodules have been received on-site and 2 of the 4 major subassemblies uprighted and set into place on the assembly platen in the Module Assembly Building as well as parts of the third and fourth subassembly.
The remaining few components of the subassemblies are being inspected repaired on-site and are being prepared for installation on the platen.
This module is scheduled for an on hook date of the fourth -- first quarter of 2014.
Module CA-01 on Slide 16 is a steam generator and refueling canal module that will be located inside the containment vessel.
Here you can see a photo provided by Westinghouse of CA-01 at one of the China sites.
On-site fabrication of this module should begin soon.
This module has an on hook date of the third quarter of 2014.
Module CA-03 on Slide 17 is the southwest wall of the in-reactor water storage tank located inside the containment vessel.
Fabrication of module CA-03 is progressing at Pegasus Steel's fab facilities in North Charleston South Carolina.
Here you can see a photo provided by Westinghouse of a portion of this module at a similar AP1000 plant being lifted for placement.
This module has an on hook date of fourth quarter of 2014.
The Unit 2 containment vessel Ring 2 shown on Slide 18 is the second ring of the containment vessel.
This structure has an on hook date of the fourth quarter of 2014.
The first ring of the Unit 2 containment vessel which I will show you in a picture shortly is scheduled to be placed during the second quarter of 2014.
On Slide 19 you can see a summary that outlines the on hook dates for these 4 module structures.
I would now like to discuss some recent activities at the site.
Slide 20 presents an aerial view of the new nuclear site.
In the center of the picture is the MAB or Module Assembly Building.
To the right of the MAB you can see Unit 2 and to left is Unit 3.
Well we are also making progress on the low-profile cooling towers along the bottom of the picture.
I'll discuss the site in more detail shortly but here you can get a feel for the layout of the site and you can see that things are really starting to take form.
On Slide 21 you can see the picture of Unit 2 Nuclear Island.
As previously mentioned during 2013 we completed the over-50-hour continuous pour of the Nuclear Island basemat also referred to as first nuclear concrete.
Then using the heavy lift derrick we set the 500-ton CR-10 module on the basemat as well as the containment vessel bottom head on the CR-10 module.
The containment vessel will house numerous reactor system components such as the reactor vessel tightening steam generators and pressurizer.
As you can see on the bottom right of the slide work continues to form the concrete walls and other structures that comprise the Unit 2 Nuclear Island.
On Slide 22 you can see a picture across the top of the slide showing the successful pouring of the Nuclear Island basemat for Unit 3 which took place in November.
Again this basemat provides a foundation for the containment vessel shield building and auxiliary building that make up the Nuclear Island for Unit 3.
On the bottom left side of the slide you can see the finished product of that pour.
Currently construction of the CR-10 module is taking place on the Unit 3 Nuclear Island basemat as you can see on the bottom right of the slide.
On the top left of Slide 23 you can see a picture of the Unit 3 containment vessel bottom head.
Similar to Unit 2 this bottom head will be placed on the Nuclear Island on top of the CR-10 module for Unit 3.
On the top right of the same slide you'll see the first containment vessel ring for Unit 2.
As I mentioned earlier this ring should be placed on top of the Unit 2 containment vessel bottom head during the second quarter of this year.
Two pictures along the bottom of the slide show cooling towers 2 Alpha and 3 Alpha.
Both of these cooling towers are now structurally complete.
All 4 of the low-profile forced draft cooling towers continue to progress as anticipated.
On Slide 24 you can see the schematic of the turbine building that illustrates how the various turbine building modules will look when complete.
The modules that are highlighted in green have been placed in their final locations with work continuing to progress for modules CA-81 Charlie and CH-82.
On Slide 25 you can see a picture of the Unit 2 turbine building.
Comparing the schematic from the previous slide you can see all of the previously mentioned modules in place on the turbine building basemat.
On Slide 26 you will see a few of the components that have arrived on-site.
On the top left you'll see a picture of the Unit 2 reactor vessel.
This vessel is a thick-metal-clad stainless steel and houses fuel assemblies.
On the top right you will see Units 2 and 3 accumulator tanks on-site.
These accumulator tanks are safety-related tanks that hold water and would be used to inject that water into the reactor vessel if they were -- if there happen to be a loss of pressure effect.
On the bottom left you see 1 of 2 moisture separator reheaters being lifted with the heavy lift derrick.
And moisture separator reheaters take steam coming out of the high-pressure turbine and super-heat that steam before it enters the low-pressure turbines to ensure that all -- that it's all steam and no water.
On the bottom right you will see the Unit 2 and Unit 3 core makeup tanks.
Core makeup tanks contain boiled water and are a component of the passive cooling system that assists in safely shutting down the plant.
On Slide 27 you will see the new nuclear CapEx over the life of the construction.
This chart shows the CWIP during the years 2008 to 2018 and has been updated using the fourth quarter of 2013 BLRA quarterly report which we filed on February 11 of this month.
As you can see the next several years are considered the peak nuclear construction period.
The green line represents the related projected customer rate increases under the Base Load Review Act.
As Jimmy stated earlier the 5% future acquisition will not affect these projected BLRA increases.
Please now turn to Slide 28.
As we mentioned in our Third Quarter Call in September the Public Service Commission of South Carolina approved an increase of $67.2 million.
The new rates were effective for bills rendered on or after October 30.
Our BLRA filings for 2014 are shown at the bottom of the slide.
On Slide 29 you will see a breakout of total new nuclear project costs.
On the far right you can see our current projected costs as filed in the fourth quarter 2013 BLRA quarterly report.
Project costs are down approximately $633 million from the original approved -- approval received from the Public Service Commission of South Carolina.
As you can see this change is largely attributable to lower escalation.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We will now be glad to respond to any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Travis Miller of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Wondering at the SCE&amp;G you talk about the non-nuclear.
What's the primary thing that's holding back that earned return from the allowed return that 100 basis points or so? Yes Travis it is the kind of headwind of just general consumption non-weather-related consumption really what's going on across the industry occurring with us too with more efficient lightbulbs more efficient HVAC et cetera.
So that's the -- that's kind of the large headwind that we're working against and offsetting it with cost control.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there any point -- you've talked about customer growth obviously but demand growth slowing.
Is there a point at which you see that demand growth stop slowing and perhaps start picking up again? Is there a trough point that you see in that region? Well it certainly does in the mid term.
I don't have a point a calendar point to put on that now.
But to draw you 2 points in time: In the short term here we're expecting it about flat slightly less than '14 0.2% down whereas in our longer-term IRP that's out there now we're expecting something over 1% growth over a 15-year period.
So I can't tell you exactly at what point that turns and in what year but it -- we do see it turning in the long run.
Our next question will come from Jim von Riesemann of CRT Capital.
Research Division</strong> Before we get run over on all the nuclear questions a couple of questions on my end.
Jimmy would you mind explaining this interest rate derivative the uncollected fuel issue in a little bit more detail and kind of walk us through the geography on the income statement in the fourth quarter of '13 so we can think about our models in the future a little bit more clearly? Yes I'll be glad to.
So what happens there if you want to kind of gross the income statement back up absent this accounting you basically need to add $50 million back to margins and remove $50 million from other income.
So we took these interest rate hedges that were substantially in the money and went to the regulator and said "Hey core to our strategy over this next nuclear -- 3 nuclear peak construction years is not having any other increases to bear on customers' rates like fuel." And we are substantially in the money on these hedges because interest rates have risen.
And instead of the customer getting the benefit over the next 30 years in lower interest rates related to the bonds where we've amortized the hedges we'll cash them in and take all of the benefit back to the customer now by offsetting under-collected fuel costs avoiding a potential fuel increase.
So the regulator agreed to that.
And there's a net $50 million of that that netted down margins and increased other income.
Research Division</strong> Okay super.
On Georgia retail I know you guys have had some significant cold weather down there.
Can you talk about what you've been experiencing in the first quarter thus far and how your contracts work down there? Are you guys variable or fixed? So our customers' contracts with us are both.
And I would say a slight majority of them now are in the fixed area compared to variable which is consistent with the entire market based upon our understanding of it.
So more customers are in fixed contracts with marketers that are in variable contracts.
We -- if they're in a fixed contract we have a financial hedge in place based on any contracts entered into in any 1 month that aggregates all of those contracts and plans for normal weather.
So when there's more -- abnormal weather abnormally cold of course we've got some financial risk associated with that but we're very comfortable.
I'm not going to get into forecasting January's earnings but we're very comfortable that January will be a good financial month for the Georgia business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then let me kick off the nuclear stuff.
Your friends are a few miles to the south.
Are you thinking about doing a nuclear loan or at -- get a loan guarantee? Or at least that's what every press is -- press report is telling us.
How are you guys thinking about nuclear loan guarantees from the government? Yes nothing's changed on our side.
We continue to provide our information to the DOE on a periodic basis to keep them updated on our information since we initiated the application several years ago.
And if ultimately we believe there is some benefit for the customer in that arrangement we'll -- we would examine possibly doing it but at this point we've not seen the benefits.
Our next question will come from Andy Levi of Avon Capital.
Your guidance for this year the $3.45 to $3.65 that's I guess based on kind of year end.
Does it incorporate any weather in that pro-or-con? That's correct.
Like whether it's upside or storms or anything like that.
Right.
The only thing I would say is that in our operating forecast on the electric business we do have in our operating cost a $2.5 million of potential costs that is basically deductible if you will before we can use our storm damage reserve.
And based upon the experience to date I can assure you we've exceeded that amount.
So I'm glad we had that in our forecast.
Okay.
So just explain that I guess real quick.
So you have this $2.5 million deductible which is in your forecast but any incremental storm cost in South Carolina is covered through a clause or through insurance vote? Yes so we have a storm damage reserve that we ceased adding to effective with the new base rates in the beginning of '13.
But it has about $25 million in it at this point.
So anything related to storms above the $2.5 million annually would go against that reserve.
If we were to exceed the amount in the fund at this point then we would simply defer that and go back to the regulator.
Our agreement is through the last settlement we would go for some type of mechanism to get that recovered.
Okay.
And then I think clearly there's upside from the weather as far as temperatures and things like that but then also I guess you had some outages as well.
But net-net would you think you're on the plus side there weather-wise? Yes.
We did have outages.
We had at the peak probably 140 000 customers out.
That did not last very long probably less than 1 day.
We had them all back on within about 5 days or so.
But we made a rough estimate of the actual revenue loss and that's less than $1 million.
Okay.
So net-net weather should be a positive and that's not incorporated in your guidance for 2014...
Well financially it's a positive.
It's a heck of a way to get there with all that the states have been through in last week though.
Right.
No no I get that.
It's not good for the customers at all.
And then just on the Georgia side how should we kind of think about that just at a very high level? I just remember when we had the warm winter there was a financial hit.
Now we've had a really cold winter.
So how should we kind of think about that business relative to what's the norm? Because your earnings are fairly consistent there.
Well what I would say is January is 1 of about 5 important months for the Georgia business.
We're in the middle of February now.
It's 82 degrees today.
So we're not selling a lot of gas in Atlanta and the surrounding areas.
So we -- I think we'll have a very good month in January my gut feel.
February with part of it cold in the early part of the month and now it's in the 80s we'll have to wait and see what the rest of the month brings.
But there are really 5: January February March November December all are key to that business.
So we're only 20% of the way through the real earnings season for 2014 for Georgia.
Our next question will come from Mike Weinstein [ph] of UBS.
Research Division</strong> It's Julien here actually.
Could you elaborate a little bit on the service delay costs what the latest is there? And perhaps to the extent of which timing do have any sense as to when this all might come to a head if you will? You're talking about new nuclear? Research Division</strong> Yes on the new nuclear the $200 million.
$200 million? Yes I think what you heard us say today was that we're reaffirming that we still think that value is good and that that's still our number not a consortium number.
But we are anticipating that the consortium is going to go through another estimate at completion through this spring and summer.
And sometime perhaps third quarter- or fourth quarter-ish of this year I would anticipate that they will give us an estimate that will include anything that they see from that delay from receiving the modules and that will start our negotiations at that point.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And how long would that take just so you could kind of continue running out the...
Yes I'd be -- I'm loathe to give you a time estimate.
Our experience with negotiating with the consortium is that things take a long time but it's worthwhile in the end.
And then we've got an almost completely new management team in at CB&amp;I and a lot of new folks at Westinghouse since the last time we went through one of these kind of negotiations which would have been with their predecessor Shaw.
So it will take a while.
Now whether that's a quarter 2 quarters 3 quarters I don't know what I could tell you that.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And could you just elaborate a little bit more on the shift? It looks like some of the CapEx that you were intending to spend in '13 moved out to '14 and '15.
Could you just talk a little bit more about that? Yes I think what we're looking at now is that at our last quarterly call we were estimating spending about $897 million in '14.
We're now looking at some of the money from '13 moving into '14 so that's now increased by about $53 million in '14.
Then that's largely a compression of the schedule.
So when the end date stays the same and they don't spend as much in '13 it's going to push into '14 and '15.
So the '14 number looks like about an additional $53 million.
So when the consortium doesn't hit milestones and they get paid based on milestones we withhold payment.
Research Division</strong> Got you excellent.
And then lastly could you just comment quickly? You comment briefly in your remarks about the additional 100 or so megawatts.
Is that it in sort of for the time being in terms of ultimate ownership? If you could talk maybe about a long term? Is there a desire for more or how this negotiation ultimately happened in your mind in terms of desire to take down more of the plant? You know what it's the -- our desire really was based on the desire of our partner Santee Cooper to divest of some of their ownership percentage.
I think their appetite to sell off some of their piece has diminished over the last couple of years.
At one point in time I think they were talking about a much higher percentage.
And it looks like the 5% that we're going to take is satisfying their desire to divest of some of their ownership percentage.
So I don't foresee that changing.
I think that the 5% that we've agreed to purchase pending the regulatory approvals at least at this point in time is it.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then from a seasonal perspective the approvals how long is that they're going to take here? I mean how does that mesh into everything if you will? Is there any kind of key date we should be bearing in mind there? No nothing key.
The really -- the ball is in the court of us to pull that together and go to the ORS and ultimately to the commission.
And we would expect to do that sometime later this year but there's no key requirement or time frame around it.
The next question will come from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of just nuts-and-bolts item and then one for Steve on the nuclear project.
Jimmy just real quick on the gas RSA what are you kind of expecting about -- for that in terms of potential rate revenue changes at the back end of the year? Yes well as we have on one of our slides there the business has earned -- at this point we're earning up in the 10.6% 10.7% range something like that.
So that's in the upper end of the 50 basis point band.
And the real contributor to that is the cost-control efforts we've had across the enterprise.
And so -- and as well as really good growth in the gas system.
So those new customers using more gas with the growth has really helped keep that return up.
To me it's really a kind of a high-class problem to have.
We're likely in the situation where we'll not have an RSA increase this fall but that's because we're earning the returns and we're controlling cost increases.
And therefore the -- we're running the business at the allowed return.
So I really don't see a lot changing in that RSA.
Research Division</strong> And so you -- basically you don't assume there's a gas rate increase at SCE&amp;G.
And it doesn't strike me there's a general rate case process or much happening on the PSC -- PSNC side.
Am I thinking about both of the gas businesses kind of correctly there from a revenue requirement change? Yes I would certainly say that's the case for the next 12 months.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then O&amp;M I want to make sure I understood.
You made a comment about expect O&amp;M roughly up 3% year-over-year.
Just curious what's driving that.
You all have a pretty good history of I want to say giving an initial O&amp;M level and then coming in and beating it and give credit to you guys for doing that.
But just kind of curious what's driving -- given we're in a low inflationary environment right now what's kind of driving that change in the year-over-year O&amp;M? Yes I think it's -- if you look at our actual results they've been basically flat in the last couple of years now realizing on the face of the financials that '13's actuals are up about 2.5%.
But I said in the earlier comments all of that was really driven off rate case amortization.
So despite wage increases increases from contractors et cetera we were able to hold our real costs flat other than those amortizations that flow through.
You can only do that so long.
If you look across all of our customer base over the last couple of years we've added about 30 000 customers in all 3 states combined.
We're serving them with 200 fewer employees today outside of the folks that Steve's hiring in new nuclear.
So we've done a really good job of holding that back for a while.
We got to make sure in the longer run that we balance that against and don't cause damage to the customer service reliability or safety and we're just looking at balancing that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And now that you don't have weather normalization now at SCE&amp;G on the electric side you still have it on the gas side.
And is it on the gas side for both businesses or just the SCE&amp;G side? Yes it's on both gas LDCs.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then Steve on -- in the BLRA filing there was a little bit of discussion about issues or concerns really more issues with the reactor coolant pump and piping.
And can you just kind of rehash for us what actually is a reactor coolant pump and the piping that goes in it? And what are the some of the issues or concerns that you touched on in the BLRA? Sure.
The way the reactor coolant system works is that the fuel rods are there really to make heat and then the reactor coolant system water will move that heat and it carries it to a steam generator where we make steam with a secondary source of water.
So our water never boils it stays liquid and we will then pump it right back from the steam generator to the reactor vessel.
So it just makes a big loop.
And on the bottom of the steam generators in order to pump it back to the reactor vessel we have 2 reactor coolant pumps.
And these are new to the commercial nuclear industry type pumps.
So they've been used for decades in military applications like the Navy.
So these are big canned rotor pumps.
When they get the bugs worked out I think they're going to be much much better than the previous version of reactor coolant pumps but they are working through some of those bugs.
So there's a lot of testing that's going on particularly for the projects in China.
And as they're going through those China checkouts or tests they're finding some issues...
Research Division</strong> And can you -- and what kind of -- when you say issues I mean are we talking operational issues? Or are we talking kind of the stuff like getting the materials delivered to your site on-time and on-schedule? No no.
We're talking about operational issues found during the test.
We don't have any issues that we're aware of with the supply chain or getting them delivered to the site.
But they've had some issues with some bearings that have been overheating.
That's going to entail bearing redesigns and those kind of things.
Not overly concerned about those.
The do have one issue with some parts of the in-power [ph] which is the motor force on this pump that drives the water.
Some repairs were made to some of those for the China project that created loose parts.
And we've discovered that we did not go through the same process so we shouldn't expect the same kinds of loose parts.
So there's kind of checkout issues on the reactor coolant pumps.
And I believe that the pressure being exerted on the supplier by the Chinese will solve the problems for us.
[Operator Instructions] The next question will come from Andrew Weisel of Macquarie Capital.
I wanted to elaborate.
I was hoping you could elaborate a little bit on Julien's question about the timing of the nuclear CapEx.
I understand that some of the dollars that you expected to pay in '13 spilled into '14.
But if I look at the BLRA from last week it looks like there was also a pretty big pickup in '15 as well as '16 and then reductions in the outer years.
So am I right in reading that that the spending almost got compressed even further into the peak years? Yes.
So here is the situation: If you -- let's look at it on the a mid-year basis since that's the way the BLRA filings happen based on the CWIP that's expended through mid year.
So what we forecast is that the -- that through midyear-2014 we'll be down $164 million compared to what we had earlier expected and we will pick that up in '15 '16 and '17.
So it's just kind of a skewing to the right of the same dollars.
There's no real change in the dollars overall related to this.
But the $164 million lower in '14 add 96 in '15 43 in '16 45 in '17 and about $18 million less in 2018.
So it's just a change of the distribution.
Okay great.
And then one other question.
This is just sort of a -- maybe I'm misreading something in the press releases but when I -- every quarter you detail how many customers you have for the electric and gas utilities.
And the numbers I'm calculating are very different from what you're reporting.
So when I compare this press release versus the one a year ago I'm showing about 0.66% increase in the customer count versus you're reporting a number significantly higher.
You're basically showing almost 2% on an average basis.
Is there anything that would cause the year-ago numbers to somehow be restated? Was there any reclassification? No there's no reclassification there's no restatement or anything of that nature.
So it should be period-end data compared to the period end a year ago.
So we've got -- I'm looking at it here now.
We have 675 000 electric 325 000 gas in South Carolina and just over 500 000 gas in North Carolina.
And that yields 1.2% 2.1% and 2.3% respectively.
Okay maybe I'll follow up offline but I just want to clarify the -- when you talk about similar growth in '14 that you saw in '13 on the customer counts you are talking about those numbers that you just described right like the almost 2% on average? That's exactly right.
And ladies and gentlemen that will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Addison for his closing remarks.
Well thank you.
And to summarize we're pleased with our results for 2013 and are optimistic about 2014.
And finally I'd like to mention a couple of opportunities to meet with you in person.
Steve and I will be on the road the first week of March in New York and Boston at investor conferences and we hope to see many of you there.
And also our upcoming Analyst Day event is going to be held in New York on June 5 and we would encourage you to mark your calendars as -- with a placeholder for that and plan to attend.
We thank you for joining us today and appreciate your interest in SCANA.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen the conference has now concluded.
We thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Thursday April 24 2014.
Anyone who does not consent to the taping may drop off the line.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Byron Hinson Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Thank you and welcome to our earnings conference call including those who are joining us on the webcast.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the first quarter of 2014.
Joining us on the call today are Jimmy Addison SCANA's Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer for SCE&amp;G.
During the call Jimmy will provide an overview of our financial results economic development in our service territory and regulatory activity.
Additionally Steve will provide an update on our new nuclear project.
After our comments we will respond to your questions.
The slides and the earnings release referred to on this call are available at scana.com.
Additionally we post information related to our new nuclear project directly on our website at scana.com.
On SCANA's home page there's a yellow box containing a link to the new nuclear section of the website that contains a link to project news and updates.
It is possible that some of the information that we will be posting from time to time may be deemed material information that has not otherwise become public.
In connection with this process we have discontinued our prior practice of furnishing our Form 8-K the quarterly reports that SCE&amp;G submits to the Public Service Commission of South Carolina and the South Carolina Office of Regulatory Staff for SCE&amp;G's new nuclear project.
Instead the company now posts copies of these reports on the SCANA website.
In addition I want to remind you that you can sign up under the Investor Relations section of scana.com for email alerts for financial press releases and operational announcements.
You can now sign up for email alerts when there is a posting on the new nuclear yellow box.
Finally before I turn the call over to Jimmy I would like to remind you that certain statements that may be made during today's call are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as shown on Slide 2.
The company does not recognize an obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Additionally we may disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation and the required Reg G information can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website.
I'll now turn the call over to Jimmy.
Thanks Byron and thank you all for joining us today.
I'll begin our earnings discussion on Slide 3.
Basic earnings in the first quarter of 2014 were $1.37 per share compared to $1.13 per share in the same quarter of 2013.
Our earnings in the first quarter are reflective of ending the electric weather normalization pilot in December 2013 as mentioned on the year-end call.
The company's financials will now be impacted by abnormal weather in our electric business.
Accordingly the improved results in the first quarter are attributable to higher electric margins due primarily to the abnormally cold winter weather a Base Load Review Act rate increase and customer growth along with higher gas margins.
These higher margins were partially offset by expected increases in operations and maintenance expenses and CapEx-related items including depreciation property taxes and share dilution.
Now on Slide 4 I'd like to briefly review results for our principal lines of business.
South Carolina Electric &amp; Gas Company's first quarter 2014 earnings denoted in blue were up $0.21 compared to 2013 driven largely by higher electric margins due primarily to a benefit of $0.10 of abnormal weather a Base Load Review Act rate increase and customer growth as well as higher gas margins.
These increases were partially offset by increases in O&amp;M expenses as well as expenses related to our capital program including the property taxes depreciation and share dilution.
PSNC's earnings for the first quarter of 2014 shown in red were $0.24 per share consistent with the first quarter of 2013.
Increased margins from customer growth were offset by higher depreciation and share dilution.
SCANA Energy our retail and natural gas marketing business in Georgia in green reported first quarter 2014 earnings of $0.16 per share consistent with our first quarter of 2013.
A benefit of $0.05 of incremental volume due to abnormally cold weather during the quarter was offset by higher commodity prices experienced in serving the incremental volumes and price competition.
SCANA's corporate and other businesses reported earnings of $0.08 per share in the first quarter of 2014 compared to $0.05 per share in the prior year.
I would like to touch on economic trends in our service territory on Slide 5.
We continue to see new business growth and expansion of existing businesses.
So far in 2014 companies have announced plans to invest approximately $160 million with expectations of creating approximately 1 200 jobs in our Carolinas territories.
At the bottom of the slide you can see that the national unemployment rate along with the rates for our 3 states where SCANA has a presence and the SCE&amp;G electric territory.
While all these states continue to show marked improvement the Carolinas are benefiting greatly from the industrial expansion.
South Carolina's unemployment rate is now at 5.5% and the rate in SCE&amp;G's electric territory is estimated at 4.6%.
Slide 6 is an interesting slide I came across recently related to the real estate investment community.
Based on their projections over the next 20 years 43% of the U.S.
population growth will be concentrated in 10 strategic growth corridors.
As you can see in the illustration a couple of those main corridors run through the Carolinas and Georgia passing through the geographic footprint of all of our major subsidiaries.
Slide 7 presents customer growth in electric sales.
On the top of the slide are the customer growth rates for each of our regulated businesses.
We continue to see strong customer growth in our businesses and in the region.
SCE&amp;G's electric and gas growth rates for the 12 months ended March 31 are 1.3% and 2.4% respectively.
Our regulated gas business in North Carolina added customers at a 2.3% rate.
The bottom table outlines our actual and weather-normalized kilowatt hour sales for the quarter and 12 months ended March 31 2014.
Overall weather-normalized total retail sales were up 3.6% for the first quarter and 0.5% on a 12-month-ended basis.
Now please turn to Slide 8 which recaps our regulatory rate base and returns.
The pie chart on the left presents the components of our regulated rate base of approximately $8.3 billion.
As denoted in the 2 shades of blue approximately 85% of this rate base is related to the electric business.
In the block on the top right you will see SCE&amp;G's base electric business in which we're allowed a 10.25% return on equity.
The earned return for the 12 months ended March 31 2014 in the electric business is approximately 10.2% well within our stated goal of earning a return of 9% or higher to prevent the need for non-BLRA-related base rate increases during the peak nuclear construction years.
We're very pleased with the execution of our strategy.
Continuing down the page on our new nuclear business we're allowed an 11% return on equity.
In November of last year the South Carolina PSC approved our request for revised rates under the BLRA which added incremental CWIP of approximately $570 million to our rate base and increased rates just under 2.9%.
As Steve will discuss shortly we will be filing our new request for revised rates in May.
Our regulated gas businesses in the Carolinas continued to perform well.
We're allowed a return on equity of 10.6% and 10.25% in North and South Carolina respectively and we continue to operate these businesses close to those returns.
Along the bottom of the page is our regulatory schedule exclusive of BLRA filings.
These items are fairly routine annual filings.
Slide 9 presents our CapEx forecast.
The CapEx at new nuclear reflects Westinghouse and CB&amp;I's projected cash flow estimates as adjusted by the company supporting the current in-service ranges for Units 2 and 3.
These estimates provide a preliminary high-level estimate of the cash flows.
At the bottom is our anticipated incremental CWIP from July 1 through June 30 for each period on which the BLRA increase is calculated.
Slide 10 presents the estimated net change to the cash flows and incremental new nuclear CWIP.
The incremental new nuclear CWIP is lower in 2014 than our previous estimate driven by the delay in achieving certain construction milestones during the 12-month period.
An example of the milestone delay is CA-20 which Steve will discuss in a few minutes.
Now please turn to Slide 11 to review our estimated financing plan through 2018.
This slide is consistent with the forecast from our last call.
Now on Slide 12.
We're reaffirming our earnings guidance at $3.45 to $3.65 per basic earnings per share along with our internal target of $3.55 per share.
Our long-term outlook remains unchanged as we plan to deliver 3% to 6% earnings growth over the next 3- to 5-year period.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve to provide an update on our nuclear project.
Thanks Jimmy.
Please turn to Slide 13.
As we have stated before the company's current construction schedule indicates the in-service range for Unit 2 is between the fourth quarter of 2017 and the first quarter of 2018.
This date is still within the Public Service Commission's 18-month scheduled contingency.
The in-service date for Unit 3 will be roughly 12 months after Unit 2.
As the company noted in its last BLRA filing the consortium is currently re-baselining the Unit 2 and Unit 3 consortium schedules to incorporate a more detailed evaluation of the engineering and procurement activities and to provide a detailed reassessment of the impact of the revised Units 2 and 3 schedules on engineering and design resource allocations procurement schedules construction work efficiencies and other items.
Although we do not yet have a re-baselined schedule we believe based on discussions with the consortium that the in-service dates for the new units will be within the 18-month PSC-allowed construction contingency.
I'll now provide a brief update to the on-hook dates for some of the structural modules.
As I previously mentioned the on-hook date is when fabrication of an assembled module at our V.C.
Summer site will allow it to be placed on the hook of the Heavy Lift Derrick.
Module CA-20 seen on Slide 14 is an auxiliary building module that will be located outside and adjacent to the containment vessel.
Finishing touches are taking place on this module inside of the Module Assembly Building and it is scheduled for on-hook date in May.
This on-hook date was amended from Q1 2014 to May of 2014 earlier this month due to inclement weather from 2 ice storms which closed the site for approximately 1 week; Chicago Bridge and Iron performance and production-related delays in the aligning and welding of submodules; and the incorporation of lessons learned from setting the same module at the Vogtle site a few weeks earlier.
Module CA-01 on Slide 15 is the steam generator and refueling canal module that will be located inside the containment vessel.
Here you can see a photo provided by Westinghouse of CA-01 at one of China sites.
We're amending our anticipated on-hook date for this module from Q3 of 2014 to Q3 -- or Q4 2014.
As with CA-20 we have modified the date to take this into account -- or to take into account the lost time due to the CB&amp;I self-imposed stop work order at their Lake Charles facility that has now been lifted and CB&amp;I performance and production-related experience.
Submodules for CA-01 have started to arrive and on-site fabrication on this module should begin shortly.
Module CA-03 on Slide 16 it's the southwest wall of the in-reactor water storage tank located inside the containment vessel.
Here you can see a photo provided by Westinghouse of a portion of this module at a similar AP1000 plant being lifted for placement.
The consortium have moved fabrication of this module to a facility in Florida from a facility in North Charleston South Carolina.
This module has an anticipated on-hook date of Q4 2014.
Unit 2 containment vessel Ring 2 shown on Slide 17 is the second ring of the containment vessel.
This structure has a scheduled on-hook date of Q4 2014.
The first ring of Unit 2 containment vessel which I'll show you a picture of shortly is scheduled to be placed during the second quarter of 2014.
On Slide 18 you can see a summary that outlines the on-hook dates for these 4 modules as well as their current status.
I'd now like to discuss some of the recent activities at the site.
Slide 19 presents an aerial view of the new nuclear site.
In the center of the picture is the MAB or Module Assembly Building.
Below the MAB you can see Unit 2 and to the right is Unit 3 as well as the Heavy Lift Derrick.
We are making progress on low-profile cooling towers that you can see on the left side of this picture.
I'll discuss the site in more detail shortly.
But here you can get a feel for the layout of the site and you can see that things are really starting to take shape.
On Slide 20 you see a picture of the Unit 2 nuclear island.
As previously mentioned during 2013 we completed the over 50-hour continuous pour of the nuclear island basemat also referred to as first nuclear concrete.
Then using the Heavy Lift Derrick we set the 500-ton CR-10 module on the basemat as well as the containment vessel bottom head on the CR-10 module.
2 of the 3 courses of concrete that will allow setting of the first ring section have been placed below the bottom head and around CR-10.
The containment vessel will house numerous reactor system components such as the reactor vessel piping steam generators and the pressurizer.
As you can see on the slide work continues on the Unit 2 nuclear island with the walls taking shape as well as components being placed in the auxiliary building and inside the containment vessel.
On Slide 21 along the top you can see pictures showing the successful pouring of nuclear island basemat for Unit 3 which took place in November.
This continuous pour took only 43 hours due to lessons learned on the Unit 2 pour.
On the bottom left of the slide you can see the finished product of that pour.
Again this basemat provides a foundation for the containment vessel shield building and auxiliary building that make up the nuclear island for Unit 3.
Construction of the CR-10 module on the Unit 3 nuclear island basemat that you can see on the bottom right of the slide is now complete.
On the top left of Slide 22 you can see a picture of the Unit 3 containment vessel bottom head.
Similar to Unit 2 this bottom head will be placed on the nuclear island on top of the CR-10 module for Unit 3.
On the top right of the same slide you'll see some of the containment vessel rings.
On the front left you can see the beginnings of the first ring for Unit 3.
Behind it on the back left you can see the second ring for Unit 2 which as mentioned earlier is scheduled to be on the hook in fourth quarter of 2014.
On the back right you can see the first ring for Unit 2.
On the bottom left you can see cooling tower 2 Alpha and the Unit 2 circulating water pump house excavation.
As mentioned during our last call both cooling towers 2 Alpha and 3 Alpha are now structurally complete.
All 4 of the low-profile forced draft cooling towers continue to progress as anticipated.
The circulating water system pump house is used to move water from the cooling towers back to the condenser in the plant.
On the bottom right you'll see a picture from inside the new water treatment facility.
This facility will provide the site with potable water and filtered water.
On Slide 23 you can see a schematic of the turbine building.
It illustrates how the various turbine building modules will look when completed.
The modules that are highlighted in green have been placed in their final locations with work continuing to progress for modules CH-82 and CH-81 Charlie.
On Slide 24 you can see a picture of the Unit 2 turbine building.
Comparing the schematic from the previous slide you can see all of the previously mentioned modules placed on the turbine building basemat as well as the progress being made on CH-82.
On Slide 25 you will see a few of the components that have arrived on-site.
On the top left you can see a picture of the Unit 2 reactor vessel.
This vessel is a thick metal clad with stainless steel and houses the fuel assemblies.
On the top right you'll see the Unit 2 auxiliary transformer.
This transformer provides power for the Unit 2 station loads.
On the bottom left you'll see 1 of 2 moisture separator reheaters being lifted with the Heavy Lift Derrick.
The moisture separator reheater takes steam coming out of the high-pressure turbine and superheats the steam before it enters the low-pressure turbines to ensure that it's all steam and no water.
On the bottom right you'll see the Unit 2 diesel generators.
These generators are non-safety-related components that provide backup power for Unit 2.
On Slide 26 you'll see the new nuclear CapEx over the life of the construction.
This chart shows the CWIP during the years 2008 to 2018 and reflects our preliminary estimates that are expected to be updated and filed in the first quarter BLRA filing in mid-May.
As you can see the next several years are considered the peak nuclear construction period.
The green line represents the related projected customer rate increases under the Base Load Review Act and are associated with the right-hand axis.
As we stated during our last call the incremental 5% future acquisition of the new nuclear project from Santee Cooper will not affect these projected BLRA increases.
Please now turn to Slide 27.
We have 2 BLRA filings coming up in May.
As mentioned earlier in mid-May we file our quarterly status update with the Public Service Commission.
And on May 30 we will make our annual request for revised rates under the BLRA.
Both of these filings will be made available for review in the new nuclear development yellow box in the Investor Relations section at scana.com.
On Slide 28 you'll see a breakout of the total new nuclear project costs.
On the far right you can see our preliminary estimate of project costs as of the first quarter of 2014.
Project costs are down approximately $623 million from the original approval received from the Public Service Commission of South Carolina.
As you can see this change is largely attributable to lower escalation.
On Slide 29 you'll see a picture of Unit 1 at V.C.
Summer station.
On April 4 we took Unit 1 offline to begin a scheduled refueling outage.
The outages occur at 18-month frequencies and this is the 21st for V.C.
Summer Unit 1 which began commercial operation in 1984.
The refueling outage allows us to replace about 1/3 of V.C.
Summer's 157 fuel assemblies perform preventive maintenance work and make preemptive inspections and repairs.
During this outage we performed a planned inspection of the reactor vessel head.
The reactor vessel head contains a total of 66 penetrations which are mostly used to maneuver control rods in the reactor.
As a result of this inspection we identified wells for a few of these penetrations that need repair.
An extensive robotic inspection of the vessel showed that there was no leakage from these areas as a result of the condition of the wells.
This kind of maintenance is common over the life of the nuclear plant and the work can be done in parallel with other preplanned plant improvements so that there will be a minimum impact to the outage.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll now be glad to respond to any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Jim von Riesemann of CRT Capital.
Research Division</strong> Before we get into all the nuclear questions maybe you could help me out with just some basic blocking- and tackling-type questions.
It's really one question with 2 parts.
So your '14 EPS guidance range was affirmed at the $3.45 to $3.65.
But if I look at the trailing 12 months you're at $3.65.
Now I know you have BLRA revenues coming in in '14.
So how -- what keeps you within that stated range for '14? That's the first part of the question.
The second part is which I think is actually more important is with your growth rate also being maintained at the 3% to 6% and my numbers for '14 are obviously coming up how should I think about comps going forward? So saying it differently how will you -- or will you hit the 3% to 6% growth rate in 2015 off of a 2014 base especially if that '14 base is above the original guidance range? Yes Jim.
So the first part I would say -- again as I said in the earlier comments our prepared comments $0.10 of Q1 was weather from the electric business.
So that's the first time in 3 years we've had a weather impact in the electric business because we had to pilot weather normalization.
So does that $0.10 sustain itself through the end of the calendar/fiscal year? Who knows? It was a cold first quarter but frankly it was about the same as Q1 of '13.
It's just that we had the normalization in for the electric business in '13.
So it took a quarter to generate that much excess weather in a very unusual winter.
To give you an example we had 17 days in March where the lows were in the 30s.
Now I know I'm not going to get the sympathy from you in New York with those kind of temperatures but that is very unusual in the southeast with that kind of weather.
Whereas it took a quarter to generate that excess here we could easily if we had a mild July or August all of that could erode.
So it's a little early to start saying "is that going to put you over the top end?" And as far the longer term as you said the more important question we're still comfortable with that 3% to 6% for '14 based on the '13 base.
Our next question will come from Michael Weinstein of UBS.
Could you talk a little bit more about the nonregulated gas company and the $0.05 offset in each direction and how that was been affected by the polar vortex? Yes.
So in that market SCANA and the broader market a majority of the customers now are on fixed rates.
And of course we -- financially we don't speculate on that.
So we financially hedge those customers for the term of their contract based on normal weather.
So when we have colder-than-normal weather we've got to either provide that additional gas if you will from a financial standpoint from the spot market or from storage.
And there is only so much you can do out of storage when you have that extreme weather.
So when we bought the additional gas to serve those customers that eliminated a great deal of the benefit from the actual additional sales.
What drove the additional sales? Was that...
Weather all weather.
Okay.
Okay.
So normally -- all right if you didn't have...
Yes.
Sorry I missed the first part of your question.
So essentially even though you're hedged or even though you got caught -- basically I mean like everybody else got caught short with fixed contracts in an extreme weather situation it still wound up being a neutral effect.
Yes.
That's right and we've had that situation before.
And I would say that's a -- I'm sure it could be slightly less but I can't imagine it being a lot more extreme than that.
So in -- on a real live very extreme case we're still on our plan for the year.
So compared to 2013's first quarter which was a normal weather quarter overall where this one was abnormally cold we ended up about the same point.
Right.
I guess the thing that confuses me a little bit is that if -- more of a bad thing should be just bad right? I mean in other words increased sales that are money-losing sales because they're unhedged should have just been negative.
Well that's only part of our customer base right? So we got -- and we SCANA Energy as well as the whole market has another segment of the customers that are variable-price customers that are repriced each month so...
Oh that explains it.
Okay.
Right right.
Okay.
All right.
Got you.
So the variable is positive fixed is negative? That's right.
That's the story.
Okay.
And also on the nuclear part just to ask one question there.
Just seeing that the overall CapEx level is down negative and I guess about $32 million less.
And is the reason for that just lower financing costs going forward because of the delay? Right.
So that's $32 million less just in those first 3 years that are presented.
If you look down on the recap box at the -- in the top half we just tie it to the 3-year 10-K disclosures.
So at the bottom though you'll see the full project disclosure.
And you'll see it's actually slightly a net increase over that period because some of those milestone payments we'll be making later and therefore they incur a little more escalation.
So you're only catching part of the picture with those first 3 years.
I see.
And that's why escalation is about $10 million less or there's a -- yes like -- $10 million less under budget than before right? That's right.
Our next question will come from Travis Miller of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering during some of these extreme cold weather events you had maybe in hours or days if you saw certain stresses in your system either on the gas or the power side and how that might play into your thoughts about investment going forward.
Travis this is Steve.
We did see some stresses on our generating system.
I think it was January 7 we had -- which was unusual for us we set a 24-hour energy peak.
Generally we're a summer-peaking utility.
But it got cold enough down here that we actually set a peak an all-time peak for 24 hours in the wintertime.
So January 7 was a stressor for us a stressor for a couple reasons.
One we had a couple of generating plants that were out.
Given the high loads all of our neighbors were also stressed so the power available on the open market wasn't there.
And then of course there were operational flow orders that would limit the gas that you could take to power plants coming out of the Gulf.
And so we had both gas and electric supply issues during some of that cold weather.
The second cold weather events we didn't have any problems.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
More of macro kind of on that idea would north to south pipeline flows in terms of the gas side would that have done anything? Would that have alleviated any problems i.e.
is there -- do you guys see value in reversing essentially some of those flows? Yes.
From our perspective as long as I could lock down more supply on the pipeline then it would likely help me.
But there wasn't anything to be had on the pipeline as in the capacity of the pipeline was maxed out.
So we were limited to what we had reserved on frontal [ph] capacity during those time frames.
So what I would need is it's not just the supply; it's the capacity.
Our next question will come from Stephen Byrd of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to check in on coal ash and it's just been an issue that we think a lot about.
Is there any movement in the state as you think about the potential treatment of storage facilities et cetera? Is that something that's coming up? Well what we've seen as a result of the Kingston Dam failure back in 2008 and then more recently the Dan River failure we have seen an increased interest in state regulators on any impoundments we would have i.e.
ash ponds.
Now we -- because of facility retirements we're down to only 2 locations that have ash ponds and we have active plans to retire those.
So for us I think it's a pretty good news story.
And we're actually ahead of schedule on emptying out some of the ash from those ponds.
So where we can we're sending it to beneficial reuse.
So it's things like the cement industry wallboard industry those kinds of things.
So while we've seen increased scrutiny our plans have stood up to that test.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Than just over on the solar side of things I was just curious the latest in terms of proposed solar legislation how is that going? What's been the sort of range of reaction and what should we be looking for there? We have worked with other stakeholders in the state including environmental groups and the other utilities to propose some legislation.
We believe the legislation is a good way to enact solar that tries to learn some of the lessons from places particularly on the West Coast in Arizona that have implemented without a good set of ground rules and have run into some problems.
That legislation is not yet out of the legislature in South Carolina.
If successful we believe it will be a model for the industry.
That said we do have active plans to build solar.
We're looking at a couple of utility-scale solar farms now in addition to what we already have in our system which is over 200 solar generators the largest of which is on the roof of the Boeing facility down in Charleston.
Our next question will come from Ashar Khan of Visium.
Jimmy can you -- I was looking through -- I'm sorry I don't have this.
When you came up with guidance earlier than the first quarter what growth rate did you assume as part of the midpoint? Well the growth for the $3.55? That's correct.
I think that off of actual '13 it was like 4.2% something like that.
So you expect it...
Low 4s.
Sorry? Low 4% yes.
Low 4% growth rate in sales? Oh I'm sorry.
I was talking about earnings.
No no.
That's what I thought I was not hearing as well.
No and sales is actually slightly negative.
Okay.
So you expected flat sales? Virtually.
We actually had slightly negative that we disclosed on the year-end call.
I think it's like 0.2% -- 0.2% to 0.5% negative.
And obviously we experienced the opposite in Q1 weather normalized sales back on that Chart #2 there.
You'll see what...
Yes that's what I'm trying to sort.
So when you came up with guidance for '14 you had flat sales in the forecast? Yes slightly negative.
Slightly negative.
So then can you tell us based on 1% delta if sales are higher by 1% what that helps -- how does that help electric margin? Yes I think Ashar I'm going from memory here.
I don't have this in front of me.
But I think like a 1% change in that is $0.02 to $0.03 per share.
$0.02 to $0.03 per share.
So we have now like $0.04 -- 4%.
So if this continues for the whole year then it would be like a $0.12 positive delta? Is that fair? That's fair.
That's a big if though.
We've got 2 consecutive quarters now of overall positive weather normalized usage but we had 3 before that were negative.
So I'm very optimistic at this point but I'm not really ready to call it a trend yet.
Okay okay okay.
I am encouraged -- when you pair that with the unemployment rates that we've presented earlier I'm encouraged by it.
Right.
I mean that's what I'm trying to think through whether -- what's kind of happening.
You have some soft quarters and then things turn around and they become really kind of positive and things like that whether this is sustainable or not sustainable.
Yes and it's still an open question.
But I would say the last 3 years we've spent a lot of time talking about economic announcements and most of those announcements now have translated into payroll.
And there's folks out working everything from the anchor being Boeing to the tire expansions to Nephron Pharmaceuticals just down the street from us here opening.
So a lot of these things are translating into jobs which are translating into consumer confidence and I think we're seeing that in our numbers.
Our next question will come from Andrew Weisel of Macquarie Capital.
My first question is about the nuclear construction.
On Page 13 you removed the expression "We are confident in this range." So I'm just wondering if you could elaborate a bit more on sort of a maybe less commitment to the time schedule? And you mentioned that you'll have an updated schedule in the third quarter.
What exactly is it that we're waiting for? And can you get any more specific as to what is going to happen in the third quarter? Yes Andrew what we're waiting for from the consortium which is Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron and Westinghouse is based on the experience that they've had to date factoring in the engineering schedule the procurement schedule their actual construction experience worker efficiency those kind of things we want a new integrated project schedule.
And then we hope that they will mitigate that to the extent that they can.
And sometimes what we put out is about the third quarter we ought to have that from the consortium and have had time to look at it.
And that really from our perspective will start the clock on our negotiations with them about what is a reasonable schedule and what's not a reasonable schedule.
So while we remain confident in the plus-18 months that our Public Service Commission gives us from a contingency perspective I don't know exactly today until I get the information the feedback back from the consortium what it is that they're looking at.
Okay.
Now is that -- would you consider that more fine-tuning or is it more sort of taking a fresh set of eyes and maybe starting from scratch? Not starting from scratch but starting -- could there be major revisions I guess? Yes I think it's both.
I think that the Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron team coming in was new taking over from Shaw.
The folks that hung over from Shaw have now been replaced with CB&amp;I folks.
So our entire team at the site is new and the entire leadership team up through CB&amp;I is new to us.
So we've got a new team in.
There's been some turnover in the Westinghouse folks as well.
So I would consider some of it refinements and some of it actual experiences as they receive submodules in for example and they have to get to welding them on the site doing installation as they've done concrete pours those kinds of things.
They're learning a lot.
And so some of the things that they plan on when they originally quote a project is worker efficiency.
Now while I don't know what that worker efficiency was that they quoted us upfront they've obviously got some time under their belts now to figure out whether that's realistic or unrealistic.
And they've also had some time to look at their supply chain.
And where components have shown up on time they'll factor that in.
If they've been late they'll factor that in.
And so what I expect to get from them is just a new estimate of completion.
And by estimate I mean a schedule.
But again I still expect it to come within our contingency but I don't know exactly where it's going to be.
And I'm certain they'll come back and say "But I might be able to improve that if you gave me just a little bit more." So that's what I mean when we say we'll start the discussion or the negotiation point at that point when I get that schedule from them.
Okay.
And then as far as communicating that progress with us is that something -- when you say third quarter would that be like the next quarterly earnings call? The next quarterly earnings call will be a little early for that.
It will probably be the call after that.
Okay great.
Then the only other question I have on the more near-term stuff is can remind us the plan for O&amp;Ms for this year and maybe how you might adjust that in response to the strong start to the year? Yes so the plan was generally around about a 3% increase in O&amp;M.
I think Q1 we're about 2% so we're close to that plan.
And some of the weather impact in Q1 caused us to delay some of our planned O&amp;M spend.
So there's some things that we were able to defer for a short period of time.
In fact with the kind of shoulder month weather we're having now a lot of that is going on from plant maintenance to out on the T&amp;D system.
So I don't see a great deal of change in the O&amp;M plan for the year at this point.
Our next question will come from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I have a mix of questions Jimmy for both you and Steve.
One a financing question.
You've reduced per Page 10 your new nuclear CapEx for the year for 2014.
But you didn't revise your financing data for 2014.
Just curious why not kind of move the financing along with kind of the timing of some of the new nuclear? Yes a very fair question.
And the answer really goes back to the one that Steve just answered about this Q3 re-baseline.
I've said all along there's no urgency to -- particularly on the equity side.
The earliest we needed it was late this year.
So if anything this takes a little pressure off of that.
But really I would like to get more information on the whole re-baseline and that whole discussion with the consortium before we make any final decisions on that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And Steve any insights at all -- I mean the Chinese AP1000 project Sanmen and Haiyang are a couple of years ahead of both Vogtle and V.C.
Summer in terms of the construction process.
Just any insights or read across about whether those facilities in China look like they're going to come on time -- come online on time on budget? Or whether there's any deviation of the project schedules for either of those 2? With respect to the budget I don't think I have any clue.
I don't know that they disclose budget information for the Chinese projects the same way that we do so I just don't know.
With respect to the schedule they've been 2 2.5 years ahead of us.
I expect that to hold.
So that would say that they are probably similarly delayed to us.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And any -- one last one.
And Jimmy this is probably for you.
In the regulatory items or regulatory highlights you mentioned down at the bottom of Page 8 the gas RSA filing just curious given the earned returns in the gas business so far for the rolling 12 months do you expect to file for gas base rate increases in either jurisdiction? No not in this timeframe.
And frankly the way the mechanism works in South Carolina if anything there's a potential for a small decrease but not material from a financial standpoint.
But I think it's just reflective of the cost control we've had across the whole business has benefited the gas business too along with the growth.
I mean the customer growth keeps coming with this -- with the build in the economy while we've controlled costs along the way.
Research Division</strong> And finally we've seen your neighbor Duke talk about a need for incremental pipeline capacity into North Carolina.
And just curious whether it's CGTC or at the holding company level whether an opportunity exists for SCANA to either be an investor on a project like that or in a separate type of project? Whether there's even a need for incremental new gas pipeline to flow into your service territory? Yes we've had an open season through our interstate company here very recently and there's a lot of interest.
But the way that works is you go through that and mainly industrials express their preliminary interest.
And then you've got to go through a sorting out process where you find out what's really a binding indication.
And we're kind of in the middle of that now.
We've not gotten to the binding part.
So we'll have to see what comes out of that.
I can tell you generally the pipelines are full because of the price of gas being driven down by the shale gas.
And there are a lot of industrial processes that would like to switch from other fuels to natural gas.
And we got to sort out who's really serious about it now as opposed to who answered the first call.
Having said that I don't -- you're not going to see it be material to SCANA's overall earnings.
Research Division</strong> Got it you don't view it as -- there's not a significant rate base opportunity for SCANA on the interstate pipeline side? That's right not to the SCANA level.
And that will be significant to that subsidiary but you're talking about a company with less than $200 million of rate base.
So...
Our next question will come from Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
Just really quick.
Just a clarification on one of the questions I think Ashar was at.
With the 1% -- sorry the sales growth forecast what are you guys forecasting now? I'm sorry to -- I didn't get it completely.
What is your new sales -- retail sales forecast? Okay.
Let me try this one more time.
Pardon for not being clear earlier.
We have not changed our forecast.
We've got a strong quarter to report here in Q1 but our forecast is for about 0.5% decline in 2014 compared to 2013 actual.
Obviously completely different direction here in Q1.
Maybe at some point during the year that translates to a different forecast but we're just not at that point yet Paul.
Okay.
And then when we look at these rather strong numbers on a weather-adjusted basis given the bag of the weather was so abnormal this quarter does that give you any -- does that give you a little less confidence maybe in what these -- with the weather-adjustment calculation that you're doing? Or just -- does it give you any -- I mean I know sometimes this is more of an art than a science.
I'm just wondering is that -- because the numbers do seem pretty high just period.
I mean was there something else going on? I mean 4%...
Yes I think that's a very fair question as well.
So the thing that -- what I would say is on a positive standpoint we've had a couple of quarters in a row like this now.
And Q4 was nowhere near as extreme as this was.
I think it was fairly normal the best I recall from a weather standpoint.
But to your question about is carving out the weather effect an exact science it absolutely is not.
You got to make 2 major assumptions in that.
And one is how much of the customer load by class is non-weather sensitive and how much is weather sensitive? And then for the weather-sensitive part how much is impacted by the extreme weather that was actually realized? So absolutely it's modeled on an assumption basis.
Is it precise? It's the best model we have.
It's one that the industry obviously is challenged with when it's extremes like this.
And that's another reason that I just don't get committed to trends based on 1 or 2 quarters.
Okay.
when do you think that you guys might take another look at sort of your annual forecast I mean for guidance purposes? Well for sure each quarter.
But in our business Q3 is the big quarter.
So Q2 is only about 15% of our annual operating plan from an earnings standpoint.
So it's highly unlikely that we're going to come along at the end of Q2 and reassess our guidance at that point because so much of it is driven in the third quarter just because of the cyclical nature the heat in south.
[Operator Instructions] The next question will be a follow-up from Jim von Riesemann of CRT Capital.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow-up on one of Michael Lapides' questions and just go off a little bit tangentially there.
How are your coal stockpiles doing right now? And are you having any trouble with rail and transport getting any coal? Well because we have shuttered a number of coal facilities our situation is pretty good with the coal stockpiles.
Now we're coming off a period where we had relatively high coal stockpiles so perhaps not a big surprise.
There have been some issues with delivery particularly from rail and we have the luxury of having port delivery available to us.
And so we are looking into the possibility of receiving some shipments in through the Port of Charleston and those go basically right to our Williams Station so -- which is our largest single unit.
So we will be offsetting some of what we may not be able to get via rail by ship receipts.
The next question will come from Neil Kalton of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
You are off to a good start this year obviously with some things maybe unusual but with the weather-adjusted sales if that sustains itself you guys look like you're on target to do better than what you originally thought.
So my question is we see a lot of other companies when this occurs pull forward O&amp;M expense and sort of use the cash in that sense.
Would that be your intention possibly or would maybe a better path to sort of use the excess cash to invest in your infrastructure needs and reduce the equity that you need with the nuclear generation? So how do you think about that I guess? Yes Neil I don't see a lot of variation in our O&amp;M plan.
We've been very disciplined about our O&amp;M that's core to customer service and reliability.
And for example in the toughest times of the recession we've maintained our vegetation management trimming the trees.
It helps us really keep good outage records with the customers.
So we're not behind.
So there's not a lot of bounce back or anything like that we need to do.
Having said that there's always some judgmental things that you can move around a little bit on timing of when you deal with them.
But I don't see a huge variation in that.
And of course we've got plenty of capital need as you referenced there on our expansion with the new nuclear.
And I would see us probably use it more for -- just to defray the needs for debt and equity as soon.
I would just see it just kind of moving those things to the right maybe slightly.
But honestly Neil I've been waiting 6 years to start having calls like these the last couple of quarters.
We really see some confidence in the economy.
It's been a tough run and I'm really encouraged by the economy.
When you start looking at those unemployment rates back on that Slide 5 and you see that proxy that we build for our electric operating territory at just over 4.5% I mean you're getting down to functionally full employment there and that's pretty exciting.
It happens to be that the county -- our headquarters that's based in here has the lowest unemployment in the state and we're excited about where we're headed.
LLC Research Division</strong> It looks like very good news and hopefully it sustains throughout the course of the year.
Yes I agree.
Thank you.
Our next question will be a follow-up from Ashar Khan of Visium.
I think it's been kind of answered.
My question was regarding the nuclear CapEx delays and the impact on equity.
It's been answered.
Thank you Ashar.
Our next question will be a follow-up from Michael Weinstein of UBS.
I just wanted to go back to Steven's question and just make sure that you guys are still -- that you are indeed confident you're still within the 18-month window.
I think that was the thrust of his question.
I heard you say confident.
I just wanted to reiterate that though.
Yes we may have changed a word on the slide.
I'm not sure about that.
My review...
But that wasn't intentional right? Detail about that slide.
But we -- based on our discussions with the consortium we're still confident at this point in time in the staying within the PSC-allowed contingency which is plus-18 months.
But when you look at the Slide 13 and you see the green box that you guys put in there that's unchanged from before.
So you're -- I mean since you are awaiting a baseline would it be fair to say that that green box no longer really applies anymore that you're simply somewhere in that 18-month window at this point? Yes.
Until I see something from the consortium that tells me I'm going to be outside of the box remember that box was a band that was built around -- I think it was Q4 of '17 to Q1 of '18.
And the consortium had been working to a schedule which was December of '17.
So it's entirely possible that we could end up still within that green box.
So until I find out that I'm not I'm going to leave it where it is.
Our next question will come from Dan Jenkins of State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
Dan no sympathy from you either about the weather right? No no.
So when we look at the projects on the nuclear plant that you have laid out on page -- Slide 18 are any of those contingent on the other items? So for example does CA-01 have to happen before CA-03 or are they all kind of on parallel tracks? They're all being constructed on parallel track.
But you are correct that CA-03 cannot be set until CA-01 is set.
And then we need CA-01 in before I can get containment vessel Ring 2 in.
And that really is a height limitation on even the world's largest Heavy Lift Derrick.
I can't get over 2 ring sections plus this very big module at the same time.
So yes you're correct that the CA-03 and the containment vessel Ring 2 are follow-ons to CA-01.
So that's a very important one for us.
Our next question will be from David Paz of Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> I just had a question.
Your current guidance and growth rate does that assume that bonus D&amp;A is not extended beyond '13? That's correct.
It assumes -- it's based on current law.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Do you happen to know about how your growth rate would be impacted if it were extended say another year or 2? David I don't see it materially impacting our growth rate.
I mean it's in the ballpark of $50 million to $75 million a year in cash.
But I just don't see that material enough to impact growth rates of any significance.
Again that's kind of like the cash from the weather right -- or no the cash from the economic growth.
I mean to me it just allows you to push a little bit to the right on the planned debt and equity insurances.
LLC</strong> Got it.
And your nuclear construction units aren't considered in service until they come online.
I guess just -- we'll keep thinking about them from a bonus depreciation law if that were to be extended through your construction period just how would that impact your ultimate rate base? Yes no real impact on the nuclear side because you're exactly right no depreciation there until they come online.
Our next question will be a follow-up from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up.
This is the first earnings call after the ORS put out their April 1 piece on the project.
And one of the things that kind of stands out is some of their commentary about milestones.
And they had the section that kind of talked about how of the 51 remaining milestones that like 88% of them have been delayed to some point and that they've even had to notify the commission of some that have been delayed more than 10 months.
Can you just talk a little bit about a are these milestones that can get things back on track? Or b is this just all tied and all part of the bigger hey look we've had some initial delays albeit kind of minor measured in months or even just a quarter or 2 and that this will all get kind of wrapped up and resolved when you get the integrated project schedule in the next 6 or 9 months? I think the answer is that when we originally laid out our case to build these plants so you're going back to hearings we had in 2008 we were required to submit at that point in time a milestone schedule.
That milestone schedule had in it a number of things that were fairly imprecise at that point in time.
So we're talking about a project that was going to be built over 10 years and we had to supply a milestone schedule that had 146 as I recall milestones.
I think 60% of which or more are completed now.
So it was not unusual that some of those milestones would move around.
Now what we're seeing in the milestones of the Office of Regulatory Staff is concerned with is that they put out a -- I guess it's a self-imposed 10 months where they would notify the Public Service Commission of anything over that 10 months.
So there are a number of them that are over 10 months.
What we're concerned with is the plus-18 months because we are considered within our schedule as long as we're within 18 months.
Now there are a couple that are challenging the 18 months.
One of them I think is that CA-03 set.
So -- and a lot of things are dependent on how things go with the modules.
So we continue to come back to -- even some of these milestone issues are a function of what goes on with the modules.
So as long as the consortium hits their module dates I think we should be within the 18-month contingency on all of them.
That being said there are still some challenges that we have outlined in our BLRA quarterly reports.
And a couple of those are things like reactor cooling pumps squib valves.
And while there are plans that are currently being worked to recover those schedules we need to see them come to fruition before we would say that we're good on those yet.
So there are some things that may challenge the 18 months but I don't think any of the ones that are challenging that 18 months are really going to be impacting on the in-service dates for the units.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And big-picture question I hadn't really asked this.
What happens if the 18 month slips? Meaning what -- from a regulatory perspective if the 18 -- if you go beyond the 18-month timeline what's the process from there? Well we would file for basically a schedule re-baseline with the Public Service Commission which would be a full hearing process.
And we would outlay what the reason is for delay.
Intervenors would have an opportunity to challenge us.
And we would go before the commission to say that we want to schedule re-baseline if we go over any of those milestones.
And Michael we've done that twice before not because of exceeding the 18 months but because of the original contingency being removed by the Supreme Court decision.
We went through that process twice already for cost items that would have gone against the contingency.
And the commission has endorsed those.
And each time they did that they changed the schedule for the latest information at that time.
So it would be the same process again.
Research Division</strong> And as I understand that process when the courts may go and take contingency out of the initial project approved project budget that it wasn't really what you'd call a contentious process.
I mean the commission kind of looked at it and said "Understood " and kind of things change around a little bit and kind of "Let's go from there." Remember when the original Base Load Review Act was approved it was February of 2009 it had entered a contingency fund.
And what was challenged to the Supreme Court was not that we would never have to use contingency.
What they didn't like was the fact that it was preapproved enough to us as to where we spend it.
And there point was we ought to be held accountable for the contingency and have to come back and ask for more when we run into contingency items.
And that's really what the Supreme Court said.
And so as -- we've done that now twice and the Public Service Commission has approved those each time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you refresh what was that contingency amount originally? So if they were -- if CBI comes back in their delays or you're beyond the 18 months or just I don't know stuff happens.
It's a big project.
I'm just trying to think about how -- if I were a commissioner I approved the project at x.
But because of a court decision it's really x minus something.
And then if you come back say "Hey look I kind of need some of that minus " it's still not that much above what I had originally thought of as the project cost.
Yes the original contingency number I believe was $438 million.
Now remember that's our -- that was for our 55% share.
Ladies and gentlemen that will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Jimmy Addison for his closing remarks.
Well thank you.
And to summarize we're off to a good start in 2014.
The weather comes and goes but I'm particularly encouraged by the economic indicators especially unemployment rates and the apparent consumer confidence.
We remain on track to meet our internal earnings targets and our new nuclear construction continues to progress.
And finally I want to mention our upcoming Analyst Day event to be held in New York on June 4.
And please mark your calendars and plan to attend either in person or via the Internet.
And thank you for joining us today and we appreciate your interest in SCANA.
Ladies and gentlemen the conference has now concluded.
We thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Thursday July 31 2014.
Anyone who does not consent to the taping may drop off the line.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Susan Wright Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to our earnings conference call.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the second quarter of 2014.
Joining us on the call today are Jimmy Addison SCANA's Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer for SCE&amp;G.
During the call Jimmy will provide an overview of our financial results and economic update and information regarding customer growth and usage as well as regulatory activity.
Steve will provide an update on our new nuclear project.
After our comments we will respond to your questions.
The slides and the earnings release referenced to in this call are available at scana.com.
Additionally we post information related to our new nuclear project directly to our website at scana.com.
On SCANA's home page there is a yellow box containing a link to the new nuclear section of the website that contains a further link to project news and updates.
In connection with this process we had discontinued our practice of furnishing on Form 8-K the quarterly reports that SCE&amp;G submits to the Public Service Commission of South Carolina and the South Carolina Office of Regulatory Staff.
Instead the company now posts copies of these reports on the SCANA website.
Please note that we have recently added another investor information link to the yellow box.
The new other investor information section of the website contains a link to recent investor related information that cannot be found at other areas of the website.
It is possible that some of the information that we will be posting from time to time maybe deemed material information that is not otherwise become public.
In addition I want to remind you that you can sign up under the Investor Relations section of scana.com for email alerts for financial reports and press releases.
You can now sign up for email alerts when there is a new posting in the new nuclear and/or other investor information yellow box.
Finally before I turn the call over to Jimmy I would like to remind you that certain statements that may be made during today's call are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as shown on Slide two.
The company does not recognize an obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Additionally we may disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation and the required Reg G information can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website.
I'll now turn the call over to Jimmy.
Thanks Susan and thank you all for joining us today.
I'll begin our earnings discussion on Slide three.
Basic earnings in the second quarter of 2014 were $0.68 per share compared to $0.60 per share in the same quarter of 2013.
Please note that the electric weather normalization pilot ended in December 2013 and the Company’s financials are now impacted by abnormal weather in our electric business.
Accordingly the improved results in the second quarter are attributable to increases in electric margins due to abnormal weather a Base Load Review Act rate increase and customer growth along with higher gas margins.
These increases were partially offset by expected increases in operations and maintenance expenses and CapEx related items including property taxes and share dilution.
Now please turn to Slide four.
Basic earnings per share for the six months ended June 30 2014 were $2.05 versus $1.73 in 2013.
Increases in electric and gas margins were partially offset by higher expenses and dilution related to our capital program.
Now I'd like to speak about our operation and maintenance expenses for the year.
As we previously mentioned a strategic goal going forward will be to manage our base retail electric business to prevent the need for base rate increases during the peak nuclear construction years.
One of the instruments in achieving this goal is O&amp;M cost control.
We estimated O&amp;M would grow approximately 3% in 2014 and we continue to have confidence in that estimate.
Please note under provisions of a regulatory order related to our DSM programs we reduced second quarter O&amp;M by $5 million so year-to-date we're very close to our plan.
Now on Slide five I'd like to briefly review results for our principal lines of business.
South Carolina Electric and Gas Company's second quarter 2014 earnings denoted in blue were up $0.07 compared to 2013 driven largely by increases in electric margins which were due primarily to $0.06 of abnormal weather a Base Load Review Act rate increase and customer growth as well as higher gas margins.
These increases were partially offset by increases in O&amp;M expenses as well as expenses related to our capital program including property taxes depreciation and share dilution.
Year-to-date basic earnings were higher by $0.28 due primarily to higher electric margins.
PSNC Energy’s earnings for the second quarter of 2014 shown in red increased $0.01 per share over the second quarter of 2013 primarily due to increased margins from customer growth.
For the six-months period ended June 30 shown in red basic earnings were also up $0.01 per share consistent with the quarter.
SCANA Energy our retail natural gas marketing business in Georgia in green reported a seasonal loss for the second quarter of $0.02 per share consistent with the second quarter of 2013.
Year-to-date earnings are $0.13 per share compared to $0.14 per share in the prior year.
SCANA's corporate and other businesses reported a loss of $0.01 per share in the second quarter of 2014 consistent with the second quarter of the prior year.
For the six-months period these businesses reported basic earnings per share of $0.08 in 2014 compared to $0.04 in 2013.
I would like to touch on economic trends in our service territory on Slide six.
We continue to see new business growth and expansion of existing businesses.
So far in 2014 companies have announced plans to invest approximately $400 million with expectations of creating over 4 000 jobs in our Carolinas territories.
The Port of Charleston continues to see increased traffic and finished its June 2014 fiscal year with container volume up 8% over 2013.
As I've mentioned in the past it's estimated that one in every five jobs in South Carolina is related to port volume.
This increased traffic is a very good sign for the local economy.
At the bottom of the slide you can see the national unemployment rate along with the rates for the three states where SCANA has a presence and the SCE&amp;G electric territory.
South Carolina's unemployment rate is now 5.3% and the rate in SCE&amp;G's electric territory is estimated at 4.8%.
Slide seven presents customer growth in electric sales.
On top of the slide are the customer growth rates for each of our regulated businesses.
We continue to see strong customer growth in our businesses and in the region.
SCE&amp;G's electric and gas growth rates as of the end of June are 1.4% and 2.3% respectively.
Our regulated gas business in North Carolina also added customers at a 2.3% rate.
The bottom table outlines our actual and weather normalized kilowatt-hour sales for the 12 months ended June 30 2014.
Overall weather normalized total retail sales were up 0.5% on a 12 month ended basis.
Now please turn to slide eight which recaps our regulatory rate base and returns.
The pie chart on the left presents the components of a regulated rate base of approximately $8.3 billion.
As denoted in the two shades of blue approximately 85% of this rate base is related to the electric business.
In the block on the right you will see SCE&amp;G's base electric business in which we're allowed a 10.25% return on equity.
The non-GAAP earned return for the 12 months ended June 30 in the electric business is approximately 10% meeting our stated goal of earning a return of 9% for higher to prevent the need for non-BLRA related base rate increases during the peak nuclear construction years.
We're very pleased with the execution of our strategy.
Continuing down the page on our new nuclear business we're allowed an 11% return on equity.
We have had incremental CWIP in the last year of approximately $595 million and as Steve will discuss shortly we filed our latest request for advised rates back in May.
Our regulated gas businesses in the Carolinas continued to perform well.
We are allowed a return on equity of 10.6% and 10.25% in North and South Carolina respectively and we continue to operate these businesses close to those returns.
SCE&amp;G's gas business returns are measured each year through the Rate Stabilization Act.
We expect a small decrease effective November 1 to adjust the ROE to 10.25%.
This decrease should be approximately $3 million on an annual basis.
Slide nine presents our CapEx forecast which has not changed from what was presented in Analyst Day.
This forecast reflects new nuclear spending as reported in our latest BLRA quarterly report filed in May.
At the bottom of the slide is our anticipated incremental CWIP from July 1 through June 30 for each period on which the BLRA increase is calculated.
Now please turn to slide 10 to review our estimated financing plan through 2018 which has also not changed since our presentation at Analyst Day.
On May 27 of this year SCE&amp;G issued $300 million of 50-year bonds at 4.5%.
On the equity side we continue to target 52% to 54% equity levels that the operating company SCE&amp;G.
While we estimate incremental equity issuances of $425 million above the 401(k) DRIP proceeds its unlikely that the issuances will occur exactly as presented in the slide.
We have not decided how or when these additional equity financings will occur as they are subject to the changes in the funding needs for planned project expenses.
However based on cash flows to date and planned construction payments it is getting less likely that we will need to issue any equity in 2014 to meet our targeted cap structure.
Now on Slide 11 we are reaffirming our earnings guidance of $3.45 to $3.65 basic earnings per share along with our internal target of $3.55 per share.
Weather has obviously contributed significantly to earnings year-to-date.
We will reevaluate our guidance after the third quarter our most significant quarter for electric earnings.
Our long-term outlook remains unchanged as we plan to deliver 3% to 6% earnings growth over the next three to five year period.
We continue to estimate that our effective tax rate for 2014 will be approximately 32%.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve to provide an update on our nuclear project.
Thanks Jimmy.
I’d like to begin by discussing some of the activities at the new nuclear construction site.
Please turn to slide 12 which presents an aerial view of the new nuclear site that was taken back in May.
In the middle you can see the Heavy Lift Derrick or HLD and the track that it uses to travel 360 degrees in a circle.
The Unit 2 and Unit 3 excavations can be seen to the left and the right of the HLD.
In the upper right hand section of the slide you can see some of the cooling towers.
Cooling towers 2 Alpha and 3 Alpha are structure complete and we are working on conduit power cables and other commodities now.
Just where the cooling tower is you can see the Module Assembly Building or MAB where the Unit 2 module CA-20 was recently completed and moved out and where assembly of Module CA-01 is currently taking place.
Since this photo was taken there have been some significant changes in the nuclear island for both of these units and as we discussed on our analyst day event and I will recap shortly.
On Slide 13 you can see pictures of the Unit 2 Nuclear Island.
In the upper left hand corner you can see the containment vessel lower bowl that was placed inside the CR-10 Module or support cradle.
In early May we placed CA-20 at roughly 2 million pound structural Module using the Heavy Lift Derrick.
On the right hand side of the slide you can see it placed next to the containment vessel lower bowl.
On the bottom left of the slide you can see where the first ring section of the containment vessel was set on the lower bowl.
This ring section weighs approximately 900 tons and is made of 1.75-inch thick steel.
Here you can also see the large equipment hatch openings.
The smaller openings are personal hatches.
On slide 14 you can see pictures of the Unit 3 nuclear island.
On the left of the slide you can see where the CR-10 module was built on the base mat.
On the right side of the slide you can see the containment vessel lower bowl has now been set.
Slide 15 shows a schematic of the turbine building that illustrates how the various turbine building modules will look when completed.
All of these modules have now been placed in their final locations.
Turning to slide 16 you can see a picture of the Unit 2 turbine building.
Comparing the schematic from the previous slide you can see all the previously mentioned modules have been completed and placed on the turbine building base mat as well as progress being made on the structural steel for the surrounding turbine building itself.
On slide 17 you can see a Feedwater heater being placed inside the condenser.
Slide 18 shows the turbine building basement.
A condensate pumps strain coolers and circling water outlets from the cooling towers are clearly visible.
Slide 19 shows a few of the components that have arrived on site.
On the top left you'll see a picture of the Unit 2 generator stator [rotationary] component.
The generator converts the mechanical energy from the turbine rotation into electrical energy.
On the top right you see the Unit 2 main transformer sometimes referred to as the generator step-up transformer or GSU.
This transformer increases the voltage from the main generator to the 230 000 volts that you find in the switch yard.
On the bottom left you see the Unit 2 Core Makeup tank which is a part of the passive cooling system.
On the bottom right you see Unit 2 water boxes.
Cooling water flows into these water boxes and then through the condenser tubes to cool exhaust steam from the turbine.
Slide 20 shows more components arriving on the site.
Left hand side is the integrated reactor head package which allows for rapid removal during refueling.
Top right shows auxiliary transformers and bottom right are the non-safety related diesel generators.
These diesel generators are supplied but are not needed to mitigate an accident.
On slide 21 you can see even more arrivals on-site by rail.
These are the Unit 3 turbine casings.
On slide 22 you can see a picture of the Sanmen plant in China from back in May.
At this point they are approximately two years ahead of us in construction.
Here you can see both of their AP1000 really starting to take shape.
On slide 23 you'll see the new nuclear CapEx actual and projected over the life of construction.
This chart shows the CWIP during the years 2008 to 2018 as reflected in the May 2014 Base Load Review Act or BLRA quarterly report.
As you can see the next several years are considered the peak nuclear construction period.
The green line represents the related projected customer rate increases onto the BLRA and are associated with the right hand axis.
As we stated during our last call the incremental 5% future acquisition of the new nuclear project from Santee Cooper will not affect these projected BLRA increases.
Please now turn to Slide 24.
As discussed at Analyst Day we filed our BLRA quarterly status update for the first quarter of 2014 in May as well as our annual request for revised rates under the BLRA.
The Office of Regulatory Staff has completed their review of our request and is recommending to the Commission a $66.2 million revenue increased or a rate increase of about 2.82%.
We concur with their recommendation and anticipate the request in increase in rates effective November 1.
On slide 25 you'll see a breakout of total new nuclear project costs.
On the far right you can see the project costs as filed in the May 2014 BLRA report.
Project costs are currently under running the original approval received from the Public Service Commission in South Carolina.
As you can see this change is largely attributable to the lower escalation.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll now be glad to respond to any questions you might have.
(Operator Instructions).
And our first question will come from Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi actually it's Mike Weinstein.
How are you doing? Hi Mike good.
Hey could you I noticed that the slide that usually talks about the different modules their expected [on-hook] dates is not in the slide deck.
I'm just wondering if you can provide an update on that.
Sure.
This is Steve.
As we've said before we're awaiting a new integrated project schedule from the consortium.
We anticipate that yet this quarter and until we get that I don't want to put out dates that I might have to revise once again.
We're waiting for those dates to come back in before we start revising any of those charts.
Got it.
In terms of the equity the equity needs and the fact that the possibility that you might not have to issue any equity this year is that related more to the strong weather-related results this year? Or is it more because of delayed spending? What's the factor there?  It's a combination of both Michael.
I'd say it's probably a slightly more related to the construction schedule than it is the weather but certainly both are big contributors.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
The next question is from Travis Miller of Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Thanks.
Sure.
This is really a follow on to that second question somewhat I was wondering if you could quantify the amount of cash that you've gotten from those weather benefits and how that would play into those equity needs.
Is it as simple as taking the incremental earnings there and multiplying it in shares outstanding or is there some way to quantify the cash? No.
It's pretty straightforward like that.
It's basically the earnings per share times the shares outstanding but I'll kind of make that easy for you.
It's about $35 million or so year-to-date.
And of course you'd have to net it of tax given the slight difference in timing of when you pay the taxes but that part of the loan is roughly $20 million.
Okay.
That is when you talk about the weather not being a complete reason for the delay in the equity issuance; it's a relatively small amount? That's right.
I would say I've been saying for quite a while that if we didn't need equity in 2014 at the earliest it would be the end of the year.
This is not a radical change in the message.
Okay.
Great.
Then on the escalation cost what's the big driver there that's been taking that down so much relative to the expectation? Our escalation is tied to an index and when we had our Base Load Review Act hearings back in 2008 we had to specify the index.
We picked a Handy-Whitman index and it just continues to come back lower each six-month update.
Is that an inflation type issue or is there something else? It's low inflation but it really looks at costs specifically by sector.
Then one of the indices we use is specific to nuclear.
It's just a reflection of the fact that the terrible economy or the rebound from that economy has not resulted in high inflation.
Early on it was the impact of the poor economy and now we're not seeing a rebound in inflation.
So far it's been a very positive impact on the project.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
And our next question is from Andy Levi of Avon Capital Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys how are you? Good Andy.
Just two quick questions one is fairly simple.
In the first quarter you had given like quarterly numbers as far as sales.
In this quarter you didn't.
Is it possible to get this on the weather normalized basis residential commercial industrial sales the actual growth? Yes.
We have traditionally just offered the 12 month moving average because it tends to take some of that volatility out.
We did provide that for the first quarter just for the quarter.
I would say for just the residential if we looked at it alone for the just for the quarter it was down about twice of what the 12 month moving average is just continuing to show that volatility.
So we had a couple of quarters where it's been up.
This quarter it's been down a little and this just continues to show that volatility out there.
Overall it was down about 1% for the quarter but we prefer and we pay attention internally to the 12 month moving average.
That's weather normalized that you're talking about? That's right.
Yes.
I remember the first quarter you had the weather was so weird in the first quarter it's hard to figure out what the real weather normalized number is.
It's a little weird in the second quarter too.
It was over 40% higher than the normal cooling degree days in the quarter.
We had cold first quarter and a hot second quarter.
Okay.
Here we didn't experience that.
You're not that far away.
Right.
Then the second question I don't know if Steve wants to answer it and I asked certainly the same question.
So I -- as I said I apologize for the question but just kind to need to ask anyway.
With CBI we've noticed stock has come down quite a bit on various research reports relative to their finances.
And I'm just curious what your thoughts are on that and not specifically on their finances but just whether we should be concerned or you have any concerns on the financial health of CBIs.
The stock's off like 35% in the last two months and whether you've had any discussions relative to making sure everything's already and whether it has affected operations at all.
Let me understand Andy.
You're saying I have a choice as to whether or not answer the question? I didn't say choice.
You can always have a choice whether to answer the question.
I feel bad about asking it but just feel that I need to.
I can only tell you what we see on the project level.
I can't really speak to their financing their stock price.
What we see at the project level is a continued commitment to do whatever it is they need to do to rectify the situation that we've gotten into with modular deliveries and including outsourcing of some of those modules for the second unit to other places which obviously is going to increase their costs in those modules.
So they're doing the right things from our perspective and we haven't seen any impact at the site level.
So operationally everything is good? That's correct.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jim von Riesemann of CRT Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hey Jimmy.
Hello Jim.
How are you?  Just fine.
I have a couple of questions.
First one is there are two softballs okay? The first one is on this pension legislation that's weaving its way through Congress.
For those who are fully funded there's an ability to take out some cash.
Does that affect you if it actually becomes law? Do you know? I do not know the answer to that but I highly doubt that we would plan to take any cash related to that.
We're in a situation where our plan is fully funded as you're alluding to.
We've got a strategy to continue to derisk that plan over the next several years by moving more into the fixed over the next several years so we're satisfied.
We're pleased with where we are.
Okay.
And the second question relates to the whole schedule with the resolution of this construction consortium dispute.
I thought originally you guys might come out with updated timing and how that resolution was on or around September 30.
Is that still a good date? I think what we said is that we anticipate the consortium coming to us with the schedule this quarter and that that would kick off for us a negotiation process both on the duration of the schedule and their means and methods.
So what I think they're going to be looking for from us is here's how we see it going from here on out based on all of the factors we've seen so far modular deliveries craft productivity other supply chain issues weather whatever you want to factor in and then say does this look reasonable? And you know based on your experience are there things that we could change in order to yet expedite the schedule? I haven't seen it yet.
I anticipate seeing it soon but again that's going to kick off a negotiation base for us so I wouldn't call it final until we're finished with that negotiation.
I'm a little confused.
So negotiations have not started right? Steve? That's correct.
Okay.
Then you're going to be silent until you have a final deal in hand with them? Or are you going to give us some metrics along the way that you're either entering negotiations or here's what they're proposing and now we're entering negotiations? Just so we can book end this issue.
Yes.
I think one it's going to depend on what I see from them.
Then we're going to be working on if they give me something I don't like what could be the possible cost implications of that? Then what mitigation things could they propose or we propose? That's what I mean by the negotiations and again I expect to get it this quarter.
Will we go silent? I don't know that I'm going to be discussing it until I see it's going to be more final but if we have any kind of disclosure issues that might crop out of this obviously as soon as we think something is solid even if we don't have something fully negotiated we'll disclose it.
I'm just thinking out loud here but if they come back instead of being a $200 million dispute pick a number $400 million does that change in terms of is that disclosure issue right away for you guys that you'd have to say the dispute number is now $400 million or something? Just so we can understand what's going on? From a disclosure perspective I think what we'd have to do is we'd have to evaluate whether we think that's a real number or not.
Remember we put the $200 million number out there not that was a consortium number.
That was just our estimate of the delay that they gave us on the commercial operation dates.
I think it was just prior to our Analyst Day last year.
That would have been about June on 2013.
So with this new fully integrated project schedule they're factoring a lot more things in.
They're even looking at engineering completion.
They're factoring in assistance they might get from outside parent company like Toshiba for Westinghouse for example.
That's what I anticipate they're going to give me and when I first see it I'm just not going to be in a position to say here it is.
I want to one digest it and two see if we agree.
So what I anticipate is what a contractor will typically do is they'll give you something that's out of bounds and anticipating that you'll negotiate something different.
I don't think it's going to be any different than that.
Okay but do you think it will be and I hate to use the term kitchen sink meaning they'll give you everything at this time instead of piecemeal? Is that what you're expecting at least that's your expectation? I think on the schedule they'll give me everything.
We may have some decisions to make at that point as to paths we may go down mitigation paths we may go down.
Any kind of a cost implication one it would have to be negotiated and two it might depend on which path we choose.
Okay.
I'm not trying to deliberately avoid answering the question but it is a dynamic situation.
I've got to see what I have to start with.
I anticipate that before the end of the quarter and then we'll have our team evaluate it along with their team and we'll negotiate to something final.
I'd love to be able to say we'll have that on X date but I just don't know what X date is.
Okay.
Then just – I guess the last question with all this sorry to beat this to death once you get that what's the process mechanically? Going to the Commission for approval the new costs whatever they might be how does all that work? Under the Base Load Review Act we can go back in annually just with an update on the project and that will be on ex [parte] fashion.
If we have a change to the approved schedule or cash flows then we would go in with a filing.
We'd make a filing before the Commission and it would be a full-fledged hearing before our Public Service Commission.
Okay.
Then an expected timeline how long do you think that would take? Generally from the time we file it will be a few months before the hearing.
Then I can't remember if ordinarily let's say if it were a rate case it's six months from the time we file to the time they have to render an opinion.
I'm not certain as we sit here whether that's the case for the Base Load Review Act or not but generally they don't deviate from that too much.
Will that be a separate proceeding to the BLRA review with the annual cost to be rolled into the 2015 recovery petition? Remember that when you say annual cost we just give an ex parte briefing to the Commission if we're not asking for anything additional.
Okay.
If we were to go in we might roll our ex parte briefing into that case in which case we wouldn't go back again but we will make an ex parte briefing at some point this year because we haven't done it yet.
If we decide we need to make a filing and that's this year we could roll it in.
If it rolls into next year then we'll do the ex parte this year and we'll do the filing next year.
Jim let me add if you're asking if it's separate from our annual BLRA rate request and the increase each November yes it'd be separate from that.
That's the question I was asking.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
I appreciate the time.
Sure.
The next question is from Andrew Weisel of Macquarie Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hey good afternoon.
Just a couple questions on the near-term trends first of all how has the weather in July been shaping up for you down there? It was rather warm the first part of the month and then abnormally cool the latter part.
Overall just anecdotally it's been fairly normal but you wouldn't have thought that if you were here at any one point in time.
Okay.
The reason I ask is because when I look at the year-to-date trend and the rolling 12 months I'm a little surprised that you're still sticking with the internal target of $3.55 rather than moving that toward the higher end.
Are there any specific items in the second half that might be a drag year-over-year or is that just being conservative? The only thing is that the summer quarter this third quarter is the peaking quarter in the electric business.
We get that quarter on our belt before we ever consider reevaluating those targets.
Sure.
Okay.
Then in terms of the equity of $100 million for this year did the original guidance range assume that would be later in the year as you've described or would it be the guidance range assuming more of a distribution throughout the year? No.
It's the former.
It presumed an end-of-year issuance so it had very little effect if anything on the weighted average shares outstanding and therefore on the EPS.
Okay.
Now if that doesn't get pulled before the end of the calendar year should we assume that would be an additional $100 million early next year? Or would that be lowered by the amount of this year benefiting from weather and whatever else might be driving you towards the higher end of guidance? First let me say it's all dependent upon all of these questions that have been asked of Steve earlier.
So if there's an impact from the construction schedule and timing of construction payments it will certainly impact the CapEx and therefore the financing.
But if it's moved into 2015 and everything else were consistent it would be probably in addition to $15 million.
Okay.
Instead of $125 million in 2015 $225 million.
Got it.
Okay.
Then lastly just on the usage it's been pretty consistent the 12 months average of about 0.5% weather adjusted versus the account growth of more like 1.25%.
Any change in your view about the drag from conservation of energy efficiency? No.
Not really.
There's a lot of efficiency going on across the board from HVAC to CFL bulbs etcetera and our best estimates are that we're past the midpoint on the saturation of the CFL from the latest information I've seen but those are estimates.
We don't have a precise inventory obviously.
I'd say we're moving past that point.
Customer growth continues to slowly tick up on new customers added.
All the indications are around the economy that it continues to pick up from the industrial recruitment side continued announcements that translate ultimately into jobs and 12 to 36 months that translate into customer residential growth.
We continue to feel good about those and I guess no real view change on the efficiency outside of the light bulb standards.
All right.
Thanks a lot.
You’re welcome.
The next question is from Dan Jenkins State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Hello Dan.
So I wanted to just follow up on what you were just talking about a little bit given that you showed year-over-year customer growth in the electric side of 1.4% yet it looks like per residential commercial the weather adjusted volume was still down like 0.75% to 1%.
Is that kind of -- how should we think about that going forward? Is that kind of a new steady state or how will customer growth translate into volume growth? I think difficult to project that.
That's why we've spoken consistently the last several quarters that we don't get too hung up when we have a good quarter or two in a row like we did in Q4 and Q1.
We don't get too concerned when we see a slight downtick here in Q2 in that residential category specifically.
One other thing I would say is the last couple of quarters in particular have been extreme weather extreme cold in Q1 extreme warm over 40% cooling degree days above normal in Q2.
That makes it difficult to really determine exactly how much of the margin change is due to weather and how much is due to non-weather-related consumption.
I know one of the earlier questions was about let's get precisely into Q2 numbers etcetera as to the margins non-weather.
It's really difficult to get that precise.
We can put a number down to the right side of the decimal but if you start drawing any long-term conclusions about that all you can assure is that you're probably not going to hit it.
I'd just caution you to step back from that a little bit and try not to project a whole lot around it.
What I do know is you look at those unemployment rates that's real and that's what usually translates into people's confidence is their personal budgets.
We're real encouraged by what's going on with industrial recruitment and ultimately with jobs.
Okay.
Related to the industrial given the projects and activity you're seeing do you expect the 3.7% area to be a reasonable growth rate for second half as well then? 3.7%? Industrial.
Yes our industrial base is very diverse.
We don't have anything at more than 25% in any one sector.
There's a lot that goes into that.
That's not something you can just model and project it linearly but each customer is unique and we put together a plan based upon working with each of those industrials.
It's hard to predict that.
I wouldn't get that precise on the 3.7%.
Okay.
Going back to the nuclear build so what are the key critical path items that you'll be working on in the third quarter here that we'll see should anticipate talking about in October? Is it the CA-05 and CA-01 or what are the items we should be focused on? The modular construction of AP1000 units really has about six big they call them the big six structural modules and that's the CA-01 02 03 04 05 and 20.
So 20 was set so the next big ones are going to be 05 and 01.
04 was set also.
So 20 and 04 are behind us.
So I think its 05 then 01 then 03.
Those are the next things.
We're working on the ring sections for the containment vessel.
We've placed one ring on top of the containment vessel lower bowl for Unit 2 and we're working on ring sections for both Units 2 and 3.
We will continue with those.
We continue to receive parts and pieces from all over the world received the Unit 3 and [wish] to separate re-heaters last week.
Those parts continue to come in and we're looking for where we're staging them where we're storing them.
We continue to work the turbine building for Unit 2 and anticipate that at some point soon we'll pour the basemat for the turbine building for Unit 3.
In general the Unit 3 stuff as you might expect is going a little bit better because we learned lessons on 2 and they get faster for 3 but the Unit 2 stuff is the critical modules that you talked about.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question is from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys just a couple questions in your earnings release you don't give a balance sheet or cash flow statement.
I'm just curious.
If I look at slide 9 and the CapEx forecast for 2014 where are you year-to-date relative to that forecast meaning that $1.5 billion number? Are you you've spent almost half of that in the first six months of the year? Are you running north of that south of that? I'm just trying to think through uses and sources of cash for the year.
Yes.
Michael I don't have the exact dollars in front of me but we are slightly behind that CapEx budget.
At this point I'd say probably about 10%.
What I don't know right off hand is how it falls out in buckets by month or by quarter but we're slightly behind that CapEx budget to date but not significantly.
Got it.
And that implies that on the nuclear component of it that $805 million you're running it close to half of that level for the year-to-date? I just don't know that.
We made the filing.
You see down below the 2014 number into the blue box at the bottom says there's $595 million to occur by June 30 of that $805 million.
We made our filing with the BLRA and we ended up slightly less than that I think so not a great deal of change there.
Got it.
Okay.
Very helpful.
And just I want to make sure I understand some of the rate changes that are happening so $66 million revenue increased tied to the BLRA that starts November of this year.
Then the $3 million I think you were talking about on the gas business that's the SCE&amp;G gas business and it's a $3 million annualized rate decreased that starts in November? That's right.
Okay.
Got it.
Then last question just trying to think about weather normalization so second quarter I would assume all the uplift is on the electric side.
The first quarter is there a way to break apart how much of that weather benefit was North Carolina electric versus South Carolina electric versus maybe SCANA Energy and even South Carolina gas? We don't have a North Carolina electric company.
I live in North Carolina.
You know what I meant.
North Carolina gas.
My [bet].
There's not a significant amount.
The mechanisms that we have in South Carolina gas account for weather normalization as well as the utilization tracker in North Carolina accounts for weather.
So the short answer is very very little would relate unless those mechanisms aren't completely 100% picking it all up but that's the intention in the formulas so really all of it was related to electric.
Got it.
That makes sense.
Jimmy thank you.
I appreciate you taking the time.
You're welcome.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question is a follow up from Julien Dumoulin-Smith of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi it's Mike again.
One last question about the cost estimates and the dispute the $200 million that you were talking about how it could possibly be increased as a result of other things that might come in.
Is it your understanding how much of that is target costs? I guess target costs would be stuff that could escalate and could be responsibility of the purchaser you? How much of it is fixed and would be considered the responsibility of the consortium? The reason I ask is only because I know that regulators are expecting that most of these costs would be fixed.
Michael I don't know that we have a breakdown of that.
Again until I see it I won't know what it is exactly but certainly there will be some in each of those buckets.
Also I would anticipate that some of it would be in escalation costs.
The escalation could be spread over all of the buckets.
Then obviously we may dispute some of those as we indicated with the $200 million when we talked about that over a year ago.
Some of it will be in just increased onus costs so if I have people there for extra periods of time I'm not going to back off on the hiring because I really need to staff.
Hiring is going pretty well and we're able to get good quality people.
I don't want turn to turn that -- off so if those folks are there for a longer period of time that would be higher onus costs.
If the consortium has folks there for longer that would be in the target bucket.
Otherwise it's really looking like escalation.
It's not per se the fixed pieces but it would only be that small amount of escalation on the fixed pieces that might change.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
And this concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Jimmy Addison for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
And to summarize we're very pleased with our results through midyear and we remain on track to meet our earnings targets and our new nuclear construction project continues to progress.
We thank you all for joining us today and we thank you for your interest in SCANA.
Have a great day.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
I apologize for the technical issues and delay experienced earlier.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Thursday October 30 2014.
Anyone who does not consent to the taping may drop off the line.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Susan Wright Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Thank you and welcome to our earnings call.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the third quarter of 2014.
Joining us on the call today are Jimmy Addison SCANA's Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer of SCE&amp;G.
During the call Jimmy will provide an overview of our financial results and related matters and Steve will provide an update on our new nuclear project.
After our comments we will respond to your questions.
The slides and the earnings release referenced to in this call are available at scana.com.
Additionally we post information related to our new nuclear project directly to our website at scana.com.
On SCANA's home page there is a yellow box containing a link to the new nuclear section of the website that further contains a link to project news and updates.
In connection with this process we have discontinued our practice of furnishing on Form 8-K the quarterly reports that SCE&amp;G submits to the Public Service Commission of South Carolina and the South Carolina Office of Regulatory Staff.
Instead the company now posts copies of these reports on the SCANA website.
Please note that we have recently added an other investment information link to the yellow box.
The new other investor information section of the website contains a link to recent investor-related information that cannot be found at other areas of the website.
It is possible that some of the information that we will be posting from time to time may be deemed material information that is not otherwise become public.
In addition I want to remind you that you can sign up under the Investor Relations section of scana.com for e-mail alerts for financial reports and press releases.
You can now also sign up for e-mail alerts when there is a new posting in the new nuclear and/or the other investor information yellow box.
Finally before I turn the call over to Jimmy I would like to remind you that certain statements that may be made during today's call are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as shown on Slide 2.
The company does not recognize an obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Additionally we may disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation and the required Reg G information can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website.
I will now turn the call over to Jimmy.
Thanks Susan and thank you all for joining us today.
I'll begin our earnings discussion on Slide 3.
Basic earnings in the third quarter of 2014 were $1.01 per share compared to $0.94 per share in the same quarter of 2013.
Please note that the electric weather normalization pilot ended in December 2013 and the company's financial results are now impacted by abnormal weather in our electric business.
Accordingly the improved results in the third quarter are attributable to increases in electric margins due to abnormal weather continued recovery of financing costs through the Base Load Review Act or BLRA and customer growth.
We estimate the impact of abnormal weather added $0.07 per share in electric margins for the quarter.
These increases were partially offset by expected increases in operations and maintenance expenses and CapEx-related items including property taxes depreciation interest expense and share dilution.
Please turn to Slide 4.
Basic earnings per share for the 9 months ended September 30 2014 were $3.06 per share versus $2.67 in 2013.
Increases in electric and gas margins were partially offset by higher expenses and dilution related to our capital program.
We estimate abnormal weather added $0.23 per share to electric margins on a year-to-date basis.
Now on Slide 5 I'd like to briefly review results for our principal lines of business.
South Carolina Electric &amp; Gas Company's third quarter 2014 earnings denoted in blue were up $0.11 compared to 2013.
This was driven largely by increases in electric margins which were due primarily to abnormal weather continued recovery of financing costs through the BLRA and customer growth.
These increases were partially offset by increases in O&amp;M expenses as well as expenses related to our capital program including property taxes interest expense and share dilution.
Year-to-date basic earnings were higher by $0.39 due primarily to higher electric and gas margins.
PSNC Energy shown in red reported a seasonal loss of $0.02 for the third quarter of 2014 compared to a loss of $0.03 for the same quarter of 2013.
For the 9-month period ended September 30 2014 basic earnings were up $0.02 per share over the same period of 2013.
SCANA Energy our retail natural gas marketing business in Georgia in green reported a seasonal loss for the third quarter of $0.02 per share compared to a loss of $0.03 for the third quarter of 2013.
Year-to-date earnings were $0.11 per share consistent with the prior year.
SCANA's corporate and other businesses reported the loss of $0.06 per share in the third quarter of 2014 compared to flat earnings for the third quarter of the prior year.
This is primarily the result of lower margin in the Energy Marketing business and higher interest expense at the holding company.
For the 9-month period these businesses reported basic earnings of $0.02 in 2014 compared to $0.04 in 2013.
I'd like to touch on the economic trends in our service territory on Slide 6.
We continue to see new business growth and expansion of existing businesses.
So far in 2014 companies have announced plans to invest approximately $630 million with expectations of creating over 6 000 jobs in our Carolinas territories.
Obviously one of the largest economic development activities currently ongoing in the state of South Carolina is the building of 2 new nuclear units at V.C.
Summer station.
The construction workforce now numbers over 3 000 along with the addition of over 500 full-time employees hired directly by SCE&amp;G to begin preparation to operate the plants once construction is complete.
To meet the demands for these new nuclear workforce programs have been created at various colleges and universities creating further economic expansion.
The majority of contract employees are from the state of South Carolina or from the region.
So the project is significantly impacting the local and state economy.
Its operation will enable South Carolina to support continued economic growth while producing clean efficient energy for decades to come.
At the bottom of the slide you can see the national unemployment rate along with rates for 3 states where SCANA has a presence and the SCE&amp;G electric territory.
South Carolina's unemployment rate is now 6.6% and the rate in SCE&amp;G's electric territory is estimated at 6.1%.
Impacting the state's unemployment rate is the introduction of approximately 17 000 people to the workforce since last quarter.
However the employment outlook still remains positive as over 21 000 South Carolinians have found work and the state unemployment rate has dropped by 7/10 of a point since September of 2013.
Slide 7 presents customer growth in electric rates.
On the top of the slide our customer growth rates for each of our regulated businesses.
We continue to see strong customer growth in our businesses and in the region.
SCE&amp;G's electric business added customers at an annual rate of 1.3%.
Our regulated gas businesses in North and South Carolina added customers at an identical 2.5% rate.
The bottom table outlines our actual and weather-normalized kilowatt hour sales for the 12 months ended September 30 2014.
Overall weather-normalized total retail sales were up 7/10 of a percent on a 12 months ended basis driven mainly by strong industrial demand.
We continued to see slightly lower weather-normalized consumption at the residential level reflecting anticipated efficiencies.
Now please turn to Slide 8 which recaps our regulatory rate base and returns.
The pie chart on the left presents the components of our regulated rate base of approximately $8.8 billion.
As denoted in the 2 shades of blue approximately 86% of this rate base is related to the electric business.
In the block on the right you will see SCE&amp;G's base electric business in which were allowed a 10.25% return on equity.
The earned return for the 12 months ended September 30 in the electric business is approximately 10% meeting our stated goal of earning a return of 9% or higher to prevent the need for non-BLRA-related base rate increases during the peak nuclear construction years.
We're very pleased with the execution of our strategy.
Continuing down the page.
On our new nuclear business we're allowed an 11% return on equity.
The Public Service Commission of South Carolina recently approved our request for revised rates under the BLRA which added incremental CWIP of approximately $561 million to our rate base.
And we will implement a rate increase in November of approximately 2.8%.
Our regulated gas businesses in the Carolinas continue to perform well.
We're allowed a return on equity of 10.6% and 10.25% in North and South Carolina respectively and we continue to operate these businesses close to those returns.
SCE&amp;G's gas business returns are measured each year through the rate stabilization act.
We recently received approval for a small decrease effective with the first billing cycle in November which equates to a $2.6 million reduction on an annual basis.
Slide 9 presents our CapEx forecast.
This forecast reflects new nuclear spending as reported in our latest BLRA quarterly report filed in August and does not include any additional cost or scheduled delays estimated by the Consortium as we are in the midst of the negotiation process at this time.
At the bottom of the slide we recapped the new nuclear CWIP from July 1 through June 30 to correspond to the period on which the BLRA increase is calculated.
Now please turn to Slide 10 to review our estimated financing plan through 2018.
While these are our best estimates of incremental debt and equity issuances it's unlikely that these issuances will occur exactly as presented as they are subject to changes and funding needs for planned project expenses.
On May 27 of this year SCE&amp;G issued $300 million of 50-year bonds at 4.5%.
On the equity side we've issued approximately $75 million from our 401(k) matching and DRIP plans and continue to target 52% to 54% equity levels at the operating company SCE&amp;G.
However based upon cash flows and the planned construction payments to date we have pushed $100 million of additional equity issuances from 2014 to 2015 to meet our targeted cap structure as I suggested was a possibility on our previous call.
We currently estimate we will not require any of this deferred equity until the latter half of 2015.
Similarly we are deferring the planned $300 million debt issuance from Q4 2014 to Q1 2015.
Overall we continue to adjust the financing to match the related CapEx on a 50-50 debt and equity basis.
Obviously the construction delay has slowed expenditures but they were also significantly reduced by lower-than-anticipated escalation as well.
The delay is a matter of timing but the escalation on those components already received or completed will result in permanent savings.
We're very pleased to report that earlier this month we successfully extended our largest credit facility by 1 year.
The facility totaled $1.6 billion and covers 5 years and now will expire in October of 2019.
The additional liquidity is important to our nuclear construction.
We also have an additional $200 million for peak construction liquidity at SCE&amp;G which will expire in October 2016.
I would like to thank our banks for their support of our liquidity needs and therefore our nuclear project.
Now on Slide 11.
Remaining unchanged is our long-term outlook of 3% to 6% growth over the 3- to 5-year period based on the 2013 weather-normalized base of $3.40 of basic earnings per share.
We're adjusting our guidance for 2014 to reflect our results to date through the third quarter.
Our previous range of $3.45 to $3.65 is adjusted to $3.70 to $3.90.
This reflects the $0.23 of weather experienced year-to-date in the electric business and the expectation of normal weather in Q4.
We continue to estimate that our effective tax rate for 2014 will be approximately 32%.
And I'll now turn the call over to Steve to provide an update on our nuclear project.
Thanks Jimmy.
I want to begin by discussing the preliminary new nuclear construction schedule on cost information we received from the Consortium.
As previously discussed the Consortium began a full free baselining of V.C.
Summer Unit 2 and Unit 3 construction schedules to incorporate project delays associated with engineering completion construction lessons learned and component procurement and fabrication.
In August we received preliminary information relative to this rebaselining in which the Consortium indicated that the substantial completion of Unit 2 is expected to occur in late 2018 or the first half of 2019 and that the substantial completion of Unit 3 would be approximately 12 months later.
As indicated in our website in the new nuclear deployment or NND yellow box update the Consortium has provided preliminary EPC cost estimates principally related to these delays to achieve the late 2018 substantial completion date for Unit 2.
SCE&amp;G's 55% portion of this preliminary estimate has approximately $660 million which is in 2007 dollars and would be subject to escalation.
It also excludes any owner's cost amounts associated with the delays.
The $200 million that we referred to in previous disclosures starting at our June 2013 Annual Analyst Meeting regarding potential cost increases associated with prior schedule delays included escalations on owner's costs.
So excluding the amounts attributable to those items the balance of the $200 million is included in the $660 million and would not be an addition to it.
The EPC costs fall roughly into 3 buckets: fixed; firm; or target costs.
The target costs are impacted by changes in the construction schedule as major -- a major component of this bucket is labor.
Other non-EPC cost components impacted by the delays in the construction schedule and not included in the $660 million estimate are owner's costs and escalation costs.
It is too early to determine owner's costs as we are in the midst of negotiation processing with the Consortium.
while the preliminary schedule on cost estimates are under review by SCE&amp;G in Santee Cooper and it is anticipated that further study evaluation and negations associations will occur we cannot predict when the revised schedule on cost estimates will be finalized.
The preliminary cost estimates and preliminary substantial completion dates do not reflect consideration of the liquidated damages provision of the EPC contract which would partly mitigate any such delays.
They also do not reflect all of the possible efforts to mitigate the delay on a schedule.
Further neither SCE&amp;G nor Santee Cooper has accepted the new preliminary schedule or finance responsibility associated with these delays.
Once the final revised schedule on cost estimate has been negotiated we will be able to quantify owner's costs and escalation based upon the revised in-service dates.
Filing for a new order under the Base Load Review Act will be required if the scheduled in-service date exceeds the current 18-month contingency which would be September 2018 for Unit 2 and/or as a change in the project costs.
Once we have negotiated a finalized revised schedule and cost estimate SCE&amp;G if required will file a petition requesting a new order with the Public Service Commission of South Carolina.
Should SCE&amp;G file a petition Public Service Commission would have 6 months to issue its order.
SCE&amp;G provided its annual update on the progress of new nuclear units to the Public Service Commission and allow ex parte briefing held on October 15.
I also wanna mention that last week the South Carolina Supreme Court issued an opinion unanimously affirming the November 2012 decision of the Public Service Commission which authorized SCE&amp;G to modify its construction schedule and include $273 million of cost when it's capital cost under the Base Load Review Act.
I'd now like to discuss some of the activities at the new nuclear construction site.
Please turn to Slide 12.
On this slide you can see an aerial photo of the new nuclear construction site from about 18 months ago just prior to the first nuclear concrete for Unit 2.
I've circled the Unit 2 Unit 3 Cooling Tower 2 Alpha and the containment vessel fabrication area.
These are areas we see significant progress by going to Slide 13.
Slide 13 is an aerial photo from May of this year.
You've seen this photo a few times now but in comparison to where things stood about 18 months ago you can really see how the project is progressing.
Clearly Cooling Tower 2 Alpha and 3 Alpha are structurally complete with work progressing on the other 2.
You also see the lower bowl and structural module CA-20 in place in the Unit 2 nuclear island along with significantly more work in the containment vessel assembly area.
On Slide 14 you can see a picture of the Unit 2 nuclear island.
In this picture you can see CA-20 along with the containment vessel Ring 1 which has been placed on the containment vessel lower bowl.
The lower bowl is not covered by the auxiliary building and they are coming up to elevation 100.
Elevation 100 must be achieved in order to begin work on the annex building which will house the electrical switch gear for plant.
On Slide 15 you can see a picture of the Unit 2 containment vessel Ring 2.
This ring is complete and will be set after placement of structural module CA-01 and CA-05.
Slide 16 shows a schematic of the modules inside the containment vessel.
And here you can see the locations of the previously mentioned module CA-01 and CA-05 which we will further discuss shortly.
Slide 17 shows a recent picture of Unit 2 module CA-01.
Module CA-01 houses the steam generators the pressurizer and forms our fueling canal inside the containment vessel.
Currently we have 46 of 47 submodules on-site and 18 of those submodules are upright and being assembled in the Module Assembly Building or MAB.
Slide 18 and 19 show pictures of the Unit 2 module CA-05.
This module comprises one of the major wall sections within the containment vessel.
On Slide 18 you can see module CA-05 being moved outside of the MAB to attempt for the addition of the final wall panel submodules.
Slide 19 shows module CA-05 inside the tent with the final submodules have been placed and final wells were completed.
This module is ready for hook and we anticipate placing it in the Unit 2 containment vessel by the end of the year.
Slide 20 shows a picture of the Unit 3 nuclear island.
Here you can see where the containment vessel lower bowl has been placed and the auxiliary building walls are beginning to take shape.
Turning to Slide 21 you can see a picture of the unit 2 turbine building.
All of the modules have been completed and placed on the turbine building base map and progress has been made on the structural steel for the surrounding turbine building itself.
The turbine building is now getting prepared for placement of the turbine rotors and generator which will go on top of these structural steel modules.
Slide 22 shows a picture of the turbine building module CH-80 and CH-82 for Unit 3 as they're being assembled outside of the turbine building excavation.
Slide 23 may look familiar as you probably remember pictures we have previously shown of the massive Unit 2 Deaerator component being transported to the site.
However this is a new picture of the unit 3 Deaerator as it crosses interstate 95.
This component is now on site.
Slide 24 shows a Unit 2 shield building panel.
We have now received 26 of the 167 panels that will be provided by Newport News Industries for the project.
These panels will be welded together and concrete will be poured inside of the panels to create a shield building.
Slide 25 shows a 3 Unit 2 main transformers and a spare.
This component is sometimes referred to as generator step-up transformer or GSU.
I also want to take a moment to mention Westinghouse's recent acquisition of Mangiarotti in Italy.
As you may recall Mangiarotti manufactures various tanks and heat exchanges that make up parts of the passive cooling design for the AP1000.
We believe this acquisition is positive for our project as it gives the Mangiarotti facilities the financial support they need to continue to provide high-quality nuclear components.
On slide 26 you will see the new nuclear CapEx actual line projected over the life of construction.
This chart shows the CWIP during the years 2008 to 2018 as reflected in the August 2014 BLRA quarterly report and does not reflect any of the Consortium's estimated additional costs or scheduled delays.
As you can see the next several years of the peak nuclear construction period.
The green line represents related actual and projected customer rate increases under the BLRA and is associated with the right-hand axis.
As we stated before the incremental 5% future acquisition of the new nuclear project from Santee Cooper will not affect these projected BLRA increases.
Please now turn to Slide 27.
As we mentioned in our second quarter call we filed our annual request for revised rates under the BLRA in May.
In response to that request in September the Public Service Commission approved an increase of $66.2 million.
The new rates are effective for bills rendered on or after October 30.
Our BLRA filings for 2014 are shown at the bottom of the slide.
And as you can see in August we filed our quarterly status report on our new nuclear project with the Commission and the Office of Regulatory Staff for the second quarter 2014.
We intend to file our quarterly status report for the third quarter of 2014 in November.
On Slide 28.
You'll see a breakout of the total new nuclear project costs.
On the far right you can see the product costs as filed in the August 2014 BLRA report.
Project costs are currently underrunning the original approval received from the Public Service Commission.
As you can see this change is largely attributable to lower escalation.
This of course does not include consideration for the negotiations ongoing relative to the new schedule and cost information.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We will now be glad to respond to any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Jim von Riesemann of CRT Capital.
Research Division</strong> I have one question in 3 parts so I won't violate the 2 or more question rule.
The first question centers on is there any update -- I may have missed this but is there any update with expectations as to when the timing of this negotiation with the construction Consortium may end? You guys have any idea? Jim this is Steve.
What we've said a few minutes ago was that we can't predict when those negotiations will be concluded.
So we started the negotiation process.
It's been fruitful to date and we can't yet determine when they will conclude.
Research Division</strong> Do you think this is going to be a '14 event or an '15 event? And your best guess.
My best guess is it could be either.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Turning -- then I think this -- it will be a question now for Jimmy.
I was a little bit confused on the earnings release.
And I just need some refresher on the marketing businesses.
You had a -- what's at the Georgia retail? And what's at the corporation? Yes.
So we've got 2 different divisions of the same legal entity SCANA Energy.
We've got SCANA Energy Marketing which is the kind of industrial marketing arm that markets to industrial customers across all 3 states of our footprint.
Some of their capability is for marketing unused capacity of the Georgia retail marketing business.
The other division of that company is the Georgia retail marketing business.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So what drove the that loss in the third quarter? Or the higher loss from this? Yes.
So Jim it was an intentional kind of a strategic move.
They've had a real good year early in the year.
The industrial marketing company on the retail marketing side the other division we've had some gas inventories that were higher than current gas market prices for a while not higher than our sales price but higher than the current gas market price.
So we took that opportunity to move some of that storage gas out and directed from a cost standpoint to some of the industrial sales.
Obviously not charging those industrial customers at higher costs but absorbing those losses now refilling that storage with current market prices to get us in a better position headed into the winter heating season in the retail side.
Research Division</strong> I totally understand what's going on there.
And the last one I'm also confused can you walk me through the revised earning guidance? But more specifically it's not so much the $3.73 $3.90.
If i back out the weather and if I assume the midpoint that means you're at $3.57 and that would be $0.02 above your internal target your previous internal targets so I backed out all the weather.
What are we going -- how should we think about earnings growth going forward? Are we going to redefine a base to say 2014 as the year concludes? Or do you think we're going to still keep with this '13 base? No what our intention each year is to move to a weather normal new year.
So last year it was of '13 weather normal in our plan.
When we released guidance for '15 in February would be to move to a '14 weather normal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
so if you go 3 to 6 I guess off that '14 I would've implied $3.62 on the low-end maybe up to $3.80 $3.90.
So we're going to actually look on weather-normalized basis probably as still some good year-over-year comps is that correct? Yes I mean I think you had it pretty accurate before when you say if you take the weather off the midpoint of the $3.70 to $3.90.
The next question will come from Ashar Khan of Visium.
I just want to get a little bit -- I don't know if you can help me out Southern and you guys started at the same time and they -- and if I'm right when you guys started some people thought that you might be the first one to complete.
And they on their call yesterday said that they're still hoping and expect to be done on their original timeline which is end of 2017.
And that their costs estimates have not changed as they've recorded.
In the same -- and I'm just trying to understand as the same projects same technology same kind of thing.
I guess the contract is different.
But why is there such a huge delta between one party and the other? I'm sure you have also done some analysis you have to have done analysis where you -- we are getting off by nearly 18 months 24 months.
They are still on timeline and our costs on the total project for 18 months ours is only 55% is like $1 billion higher I think.
So I just want to understand Jimmy is what is so different that we are having 2 different results for a project of a similar scope type in the same region being built by the same kind of subcontractors and things? Ashar this is Steve.
Let me try to tackle the question.
You said that we started about the same time.
We certainly applied for our licenses at the same time and we're within a couple of months of receiving licenses with Southern getting theirs first.
Southern got an early site permit.
So some of the on-site construction on the Southern Company project did start before ours did.
We did not see the need to apply for the early site permit so we went straight this -- to the combined operating license route which we both ended up getting.
So they did some preliminary work that we did not do.
So there are some minor differences on-site.
One because of the early start they got and two because the sites are slightly differently hard rock site versus a soft soil site.
That being said they are -- the projects are the same project building the same things with the same vendors and the same constructor.
I can't speak to what they would say relative to their schedule or cost.
We know that from the original cost projections Southern company was higher than us by some 40% and their contract -- though I haven't seen their contract my understanding is it is different than ours and different than in ours and as much as it may be more fixed than ours is.
So what Southern says is what they've said and you can glean that from their earnings calls.
We're dealing with same Consortium that they're dealing with and we've gotten information on cost and schedule that we've updated you on.
So that's about as much as we can say on the Southern project.
Okay okay.
And then Jimmy I guess what is being I guess troubling to the stock and I guess the sell-side is not getting recovery or I guess that's what the stock kind of envisions is that we will have some hard time getting recovery for this overspend.
So if I'm correct what you said is that in -- by the time this agreement is done and over with I guess the best time frame we have is end of the year.
You will then file immediately with the commission the new cost estimates and timelines.
And then the commission would have 6 months from that date.
So if you get the January 1 you filed January 1 say.
So you will know by June 30 what they have allowed you that increase.
And I guess the positive thing to rule is that the Supreme Court in their decision earlier basically verified an earlier commission decision to be allowed to recover that.
So it seems like they can go ahead and do that.
And if they do that that should not be then appealed to the courts because I guess we have another precedence where the Supreme Court has reaffirmed the commission's decision.
Am I thinking through this correctly? Yes Ashar.
I think your example of the time frame there is technically accurate.
I think a couple times before when we've been in for revisions in the cost and schedule I think going from memory they've actually ruled sooner than their 6 months fairly quickly.
So they've not necessarily taken that entire 6 months.
They do usually take that 6 months on a regular base rate case just so that they have the maximum statutory allowance before the new rates go in.
But I think what you said there is accurate.
I don't see any real issues with that.
The Supreme Court did rule in favor of us on the interveners appeal.
It was a 5-0 decision by the court.
And I think everything else you summarized there is pretty accurate.
Our next question will come from Michael Weinstein of UBS.
Research Division</strong> About the owner's cost that you were -- you haven't provided an estimate for.
Most of that is labor am I correct in understanding that? Yes I would say the majority of it is probably labor and that's our labor so these are the folks that we've hired that would now be on the project for a longer period of time because the Consortium was extending it.
Some of the other costs would be things like insurance.
We have to have builders' risk insurance on the project and if the project is extending then you have to extend that policy.
That will come on the policy.
So there are some things that are not labor but I would say the majority of it is probably labor.
Research Division</strong> I mean you haven't provided an estimate of it.
Is it because you might file for liquidated damages and you don't want to give away your hand on that or ...
There are some things in the negotiation process that we don't necessarily want to tip our hand on.
Other things would be that you have a hiring plan for your staff and you might adjust that hiring plan if you've got a new plan now that to deal with.
So that could impact the owner's costs.
So there are some things that we can have an impact on an owner's costs.
Research Division</strong> The moving target.
And is there a kind of a rule of thumb? I mean is it a sort of a similar magnitude to what their costs are? Is it maybe 30% of it 20% of it? I don't know.
I've never done a ratio on the costs.
So what we'll do is we'll -- when we negotiate the schedule we'll evaluate the owner's costs based on the new schedule and then we'll put that information out.
Research Division</strong> And one other question I had is about the escalation.
You said their numbers are based on 2007 without escalation.
And is -- just looking at the way escalation is already affected the project it hasn't really been much of the problem right? Especially coming a lot less than expected so is that sort of...
To date it's certainly the escalation has come in much less than anticipated because we had to forecast what the escalation was under that Base Load Review Act at the beginning of the process and it has been very favorable for a large capital-intensive project.
I don't know that I would want to predict what that's going to do going forward but we didn't apply the escalation just because escalation numbers can swing fairly widely.
And they've given us a relatively large range for completion.
So obviously we're trying to negotiate towards the front end of their range.
And but where we end up will have an impact on the escalation.
That's one reason why we're waiting on the escalation calculations.
And let me just add process wise the escalation is allowed for in the wall and the escalation kind of is what is up or down it's -- so that's not a separate application if that changes.
Research Division</strong> Is there any way to estimate what the number would be with escalation I guess in 2014 dollars? Well we've got to know all the details of what year and quarters et cetera those buckets fall in and we're not to that point yet.
The next question will come from Travis Miller of MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Question on the weather benefit that you got in this year.
Is that going to impact at all the need for the equity? I know you guys kept it the same or shifted a little bit.
It's been a -- the weather has been a pretty nice benefit for you guys.
Is that going to affect next year's equity plan at all? Yes Travis on the margin it fact that affects just a little.
But more than that it's just the timing of the construction on the project.
So the weather year-to-date has been ballpark $50 million pretax ballpark $30 million after tax or so.
So it's not a huge driver of timing of equity.
When you got a $1.8 billion liquidity line $30 million is not a huge swing in there.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then on the $0.29 year-to-date you've gotten on that electric margin can you break that down in terms of nuclear project customer growth other stuff? Yes.
Just a minute I may have some more on that.
Yes so we talked about -- see $0.23 is weather and then the BLRA has added about $0.20 I believe it is.
Isn't? $0.29.
$0.29 excuse me.
The BLRA is added about $0.20 and then residential and commercial customer growth is about $0.06 is the other driver where we're got 1.3% customer growth.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then the other would be then the other 3 would just be other stuff? Yes.
Just the miscellaneous.
Usage et cetera.
The next question will come Andrew Weisel of Macquarie.
My first question is I just want to clarify I think one of the thing that Ashar was asking about you're clearly in the process of negotiating who's going to shoulder what portion of the cost overruns between the Consortium and SCANA.
But whatever that number ends up being for the SCANA portion should we think of that as entirely being borne by rate payers or would investors somehow have to share that costs overrun? Yes.
Under the Base Load Review Act for it not to be the responsibility of the ratepayers they would have to be able to prove imprudence on the part of the utility.
And certainly we don't think that there's any imprudence on our part.
So we don't think that that would be any different.
Okay great.
Second question about the updated schedule.
Again I know that there are certain negotiations you're doing in terms of ways to shorten the delay.
But the way that the Consortium has proposed the updated schedule on cost estimates to you is more the increase coming in the near term like '15 or so? Or is it more -- is the additional costs coming more in the other years like 2018 or potentially 2019? The additional costs that the Consortium would propose would really be spread out over the project.
Now the project is going to spread out for a little bit longer.
But I don't think the bulk of the costs will be in '14.
I think the bulk of the costs as you can see from one of the slides we presented it's going to be in '15 '16 range.
But it's spread out over the entire contract period.
Okay great.
And then just to clarify you were talking earlier about some of those expenses being in labor and insurance type of buckets.
Would those ultimately be added to the rate base once the project is done? Yes they'd be a part of the capital project and would go in the rate base when the project is finished.
So they get layered in each year as we would file the BLRA increases just like they do today.
Steve has I don't know 500 or so SCE&amp;G employees on site now that he's already hired ramping up for training once the plant comes online.
And they go into the BLRA through CWIP each May when we make the filing and into new rates each November.
Great.
And my last question is in light of the favorable trends in terms of weather help this year your account growth remained strong what are your latest thoughts on when you might next need to file for a general rate case in South Carolina? Yes.
Well our strategy remains to stay out of any kind of general rate increase during this peak nuclear construction years.
And the key to that obviously is maintaining a reasonable return on the base electric business.
We continue to do that.
We continue to run it at about a 10% return on equity as it was in our prepared comments earlier.
So we're comfortable with that for the near term.
[Operator Instructions] The next question will come from Dan Jenkins of State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
I had a little -- some questions around the schedule in particular the CA -- Unit 2 CA-01 unit.
I just wondered if you give a little more color.
I know you mentioned you have 46 or 47 submodules on-site.
Do you need to have -- what's the anticipated for the last submodule is that necessary before you can move forward? Or how should we think about the timing of that CA-01 since it seems like that's critical path item that's holding up a lot of other steps.
Is that correct? Yes Dan the CA-01 is a critical module.
The 47 submodules that comprise that come in from the Lake Charles facility by truck.
And then we will make any kind of inspections from repairs on them on site infield then we erect them on a platform inside our Module Assembly Building.
And as I think I said a while ago we got about 16 of those or 18 of those standing on the plant what the craft are doing now is there's fitting them up making sure they're intolerant and they're stating the welding process.
So as of right now we have a backlog in the Module Assembly Building which means they've got more modules that they could stand up.
So that's good they're not waiting on anything.
So the absence of that one module isn't holding us up from doing the work.
And we anticipate getting that last module sometime in the next couple of weeks.
So it in and of itself is not going to be a holdup.
And then they -- we -- they ought to progress towards completing that module.
And our term is ready for hook which means it's ready to be placed on the hook of Heavy Lift Derrick.
So it basically means that the module is finished to that point where it can be picked up.
We're anticipating that sometime in the first half of next year.
The first half of '15 for CA-01 to go into the unit is that what you're saying? Just to be clear.
Yes into the containment vessel.
So we basically -- we've got on the structural module site there are really 6 large structural modules CA-01 through 05 and they all go inside of the containment vessel and then the CA-20 goes outside the containment vessel but still on the nuclear island on the base mat and forms a portion of auxillary building.
The CA-20 module has been set.
The CA-04 module has been set.
The CA-05 module is complete ready to be set.
And so we'll do that shortly before the end of this year.
CA-01 is in progress inside the Module Assembly Building and we anticipate setting that sometime first half of next year.
Our next question will come from Stephen Byrd of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Wondered if you could give an update of what you're seeing at the Sanmen project in China in terms of the overall progress lessons learned sort of key execution risks that you see at that site? Yes.
I think the progress at the Sanmen site has been very good.
If you haven't seen pictures of it I know they've got a photo on Westinghouse's website of Sanmen unit from I think it was May of this year.
From our look at it they continue to be about 2 to 2.5 years ahead of us.
We've said that from the start.
That continues to hold.
If you look at the pictures of the Sanmen site both Unit 1 and unit 2 are coming along.
Unit 1 looks like it's about finished.
We -- their issues or their holes are probably the same kind of things that we're following.
The reactor coolant pumps squib valves and we've gotten some good news from the Consortium on both of those fronts just recently.
But they've got testing to go through which they're into now.
But they anticipate that they will be starting up those units.
I think their goal was to try to do it by the end of '15 first part of '16.
So they continue to be 2 to 2.5 years ahead of us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And from an overall sort of standards of engineering and sort of quality control as you look at that and what you're seeing there what's your general assessment of that? Our general assessment of their quality is good.
They are building it to Western standards.
They don't have the same kind of regulatory oversight that we would have from our Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
But that aside we think that the quality of construction over there is good.
They are using some indigenous suppliers particularly on the secondary side of the plant or the turbine building side of the plant.
So that's where they're going to vary from us.
So whereas we would you use Toshiba for the turbine and generator for example they might use somebody else.
Some of the cabling and things are going to try and use indigenous Chinese suppliers that we wouldn't necessarily want to use.
So there are going to be some differences particularly on the secondary side of the plant.
But the plant is coming right along.
Our next question will be from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just coming back to the summer project.
I want to make sure I understand somethings and I'm trying to get my arm around on something.
So the $660 million that's in '07 dollars that I could use a very low inflation number or escalation number to think about what that -- 1% or 2% if I want to just back of the envelope to think about what that is in terms of 2014 dollars.
Is there a back of the envelope we can use for the owner's cost? Meaning when you first did the budget for the project and you first talked about it what percent of total cost did owner's cost make up? I'm just trying to think about back of the envelope way to prorate this.
Michael off the top of my head I don't remember what the total amount of the project cost was owner's cost.
It was probably less than 10% of the total cost.
We can probably got some refinements for you and give you a call back with that number.
But I don't have it at my fingertips.
But it was not a huge portion of the total cost.
Steve let me just interject.
That's available from the public data mine or is on website and the PSCs in our filing it shows up broken down.
Research Division</strong> In the latest BLRA or in the original one? No it's in the original.
I'm not sure if it's in each quarter or not.
But we'll have IR follow up with you on that on where it's available publicly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is it just safe to assume that the owner's cost would escalate at kind of the same rate if I took the $660 million and divided it by the last projected cost and then took whatever the owner's costs was and the escalated at the same amount? Is that kind of a rough way to get to what the potential cost increase would be? I don't know that you can exactly do that.
Some of the $660 million that the Consortium has given to us they are truly rebaselining things.
So they're looking at the experience that they've gained to date on things like module fabrication on-site efficiencies engineering completion those kinds of things.
So the owner's cost wouldn't follow that necessarily.
A good majority of owner's cost is just because the staff that we've hired are going to be on site for a longer period of time.
And then there are some other things like I discussed insurance we'll have some increased regulatory commission fees those kind of things.
But the bulk of it is going to be with the people that are there for longer periods of time.
And we're looking at things that we can do now perhaps we don't need that staff quite as early with whatever is the new schedule that we negotiate.
We may take some actions to kind of delay some of that hiring.
So we have -- we will have some impact on the cost.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then 1 or 2 just kind of more modeling related items to me at least you all talked a little bit about in the corporate in the gas marketing business description.
You also talked about a little bit higher corporate or holding company interest costs.
Is there a new debt issuance? Or did you ramp up short-term debt during the quarter at the holding company level? No that is a very very minor piece of that variance Michael so don't get too hung up on that one.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then lastly going into the end of the year what's your expectation for O&amp;M for like the fourth quarter? Like you've talked about O&amp;M being up a good bit in '14 over '13.
It hasn't quite been up as much as maybe expected it would be and you've all done a good job managing that.
How do you end the year on the O&amp;M line? I think the run rate you're seeing to date is a pretty good projection for the fourth quarter based on what we know today.
Research Division</strong> Meaning kind of a similar year-over-year growth rate that we've seen in the other 3 quarters? Yes.
We continue to do a better job than our plan in managing that cost.
So we're encouraged by that.
And the next question will be a follow-up from Ashar Khan of Visium.
Jimmy I think in response to Jim's question I just wanted to clarify.
So the midpoint is right now is $3.80.
And if you take $0.20 off it for the abnormal weather you get to a $3.60 normalized 2014.
And that would be the new start point when you give guidance for the 3% to 6% for '15 and onwards going forward? Only if that's where we end up at year end.
So I'm sure some things will change between now and the earnings at December 31.
But that is based upon today.
There will be both weather-related changes in Q4 and non-weather-related changes but we'll evaluate all of that and come out with a new number.
So I'm not giving you $3.60 as a base today.
No we will give you a new number in February.
Okay.
But you said you base it off normalized earnings right? Normalized weather earnings right? Is that correct or there certain other things that you do? That is correct but some other things could change in Q4 that I don't know of today.
There could be something that's abnormal that's unrelated to weather.
Understood understood.
But right now the $3.70 to $3.90 the new forecast that is higher just because of the abnormal weather that you have had.
Is that correct? Based on what you're giving us today.
Not totally but the majority of it is.
So look we're raising it $0.25 and the weather is $0.23 or so of that.
So there's $0.02 or $0.03 in there for things we've experienced year-to-date that we're putting into the revised guidance today.
And ladies and gentlemen that will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over the Jimmy Addison for his closing comments.
Yes.
First of all I want to say thanks to everyone for your patience for bearing with us today with this technical problem we had.
Thank you for hanging with us for a couple of hours here to get through this.
I want to tell you we're pleased with our results through the first 3 quarters with only a quarter left in the year and we continue to focus on the new nuclear construction and on operating all of our business in a safe and reliable manner.
We appreciate you joining us today and we thank you for your interest in SCANA.
Ladies and gentlemen the conference has now concluded.
We thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period (Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Thursday February 19 2015.
Anyone who does not consent to the taping may drop off the line.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Susan Wright Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Thank you and welcome to our Analyst Call.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2014.
Joining us on the call today are Jimmy Addison SCANA's Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer of SCE&amp;G.
During the call Jimmy will provide an overview of our financial results and related matters and Steve will provide an update on our new nuclear project.
After our comments we will respond to your questions.
Slides and the earnings release referenced to in this call are available at scana.com.
Additionally we post information related to our new nuclear project and other Investor Relations information directly to our Web site at scana.com.
On SCANA's home page there is a yellow box containing links to the new nuclear development and other Investor Relations information section of the Web site.
It is possible that some of the information that we will be posting from time to time may be deemed material and the information that is not otherwise been found public.
You can sign up for email alerts under the Investor Relations section of scana.com to notify you when there is a new posting in the new nuclear development and/or other Investor Relations information sections of the Web site.
Finally before I turn the call over to Jimmy I would like to remind you that certain statements that may be made during today's call are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as shown on Slide 2.
The Company does not recognize an obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Additionally we may disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation and the required Reg G information can be found on the Investor Relations section of our Web site.
I will now turn the call over to Jimmy.
Thanks Susan and thank you all for joining us today.
I'll begin our earnings discussion on Slide 3.
Basic earnings in the fourth quarter of 2014 were $0.73 per share consistent with the same period of the prior year.
Overall electric margins increased during the fourth quarter of 2014 versus the same quarter of the prior year due primarily to continued recovery of financing cost through the Base Load Review Act or BLRA and customer growth.
As a reminder the electric weather normalization pallet ended in December 2013 and the Company’s financial results for 2014 and going forward are now impacted by abnormal weather in our electric business.
Accordingly during the fourth quarter of 2014 we estimate that weather had a negative impact of $0.02 on electric margins versus the fourth quarter of the prior year.
Additionally high gas margins and a slight decrease in the Company’s effective tax rate also contributed to the quarter.
These increases were offset by expected increases in operations and maintenance expenses and CapEx related items including depreciation interest expense as well as share dilution.
Please turn to Slide 4.
Basic earnings per share for the year ended December 31 2014 were $3.79 per share versus $3.40 per share in 2013.
Increases in electric and gas margins as well as the decreases in the effective tax rate were partially offset by operations and maintenance expenses and higher expenses in dilution related to our capital program.
For the full year of 2014 we estimate weather added $0.21 per share to electric margins versus the prior year.
Now on Slide 5 I’d like to briefly review results for our principle lines of business.
South Carolina Electric &amp; Gas Company's full year earnings denoted in blue were up $0.41 per share for 2014 compared to the prior year.
This was driven largely by increases in electric margin which were due primarily to abnormal weather plus the continued recovery of financing cost through the BLRA and customer growth.
Higher gas margins also contributed to the earnings improvement.
These increases were partially offset by increases in O&amp;M expenses expenses related to our capital program including property taxes interest expense and depreciation as well as share dilution.
For the fourth quarter basic earnings per share were $0.02 higher than the same period last year.
PSNC Energy’s earnings shown in red were $0.39 per share for the full year of 2014 compared to $0.37 per share in the prior year.
This increase is mainly attributable to customer growth.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 basic earnings were $0.16 per share consistent with 2013.
SCANA Energy our retail and natural gas marketing business in Georgia in green showed an increase in earnings per share of $0.01 over last year.
This was mainly due to increased margins from higher throughput during the first and fourth quarters of 2014.
As a reminder the increased margins in the first quarter were partially offset by higher commodity prices experienced concerning the incremental volumes and price competition.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 basic earnings per share were also up $0.01 over the same period of 2013.
SCANA’s corporate and other businesses reported a loss of $0.03 per share in the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to near breakeven results in the fourth quarter of the prior year.
For the 12 month period these businesses reported a loss of $0.01 per share in 2014 compared to earnings of $0.04 per share in 2013.
This change is primarily the result of higher interest expense at the holding company due to the accelerated amortization of debt issuance cost associated with hybrid securities that were called at par in early 2015 prior to their maturity.
On Slide 6 we have provided two years of historical financial data on the two subsidiary sales we recently announced to assist in updating your models.
The CGT transaction closed on January 31st and the SCI transaction is scheduled to close shortly.
To recap these transactions will generate approximately $650 million of gross proceeds.
Our updated estimate of the net cash available to fund our expansion will exceed $425 million after taxes.
I will discuss the planned changes to our financing plan shortly.
I’ll now like to touch on the economic trends in our service territory.
As you can see on Slide 7 during 2014 company’s announced plans to invest over $1 billion with the expectation of creating over 7 500 jobs in our Carolina’s territories.
At the bottom of the slide you can see the national unemployment rate along with the rates for the three states where SCANA has a presence and the SCE&amp;G electric territory.
South Carolina’s unemployment rate is now at 6.5% and the rate in SCE&amp;G's electric territory is estimated at 5.6%.
At top of Slide 8 you can see the South Carolina unemployment statistics as of December 2014 and 2013.
Although the South Carolina unemployment rate only dropped at 10th of a percentage point from the end of 2013 December 2014 marked all-time highs for the number of South Carolinians employed and in the labor force.
The nearly 50 000 additions to the work force represented 2.4% increase over December 2013 levels.
So in short the expansion of the economy has clearly motivated many that have removed themselves from actively seeking work back into the work force.
The December market numbers from the South Carolina Association of Realtors showed increases in new listings pending sales and medium sales prices while available housing inventory shrank.
I also wanted to mention as depicted at the bottom of the slide that United Van Lines recently released its annual mover study for 2014 which tracks migration patterns state to state once again South Carolina and North Carolina ranked second and third respectively in terms of domestic migration destinations collaborating our realized customer growth statistics.
These are all very positive signs for our territories.
Slide 9 presents customer growth and electric sales statistics.
On the top of the slide are the customer growth rates for each of our regulated businesses.
We continue to see strong customer growth in our businesses and in the region.
SCE&amp;G electric business added customers at an annual rate of 1.4%.
Our regulated gas businesses in North and South Carolina added customers at 2.5% and 2.8% respectively.
A particular note is the fact that all of these rates accelerated during the year.
The bottom table outlines our actual and weather normalized kilowatt hour sales for the 12 months ended December 31 2014.
Overall weather normalized total retail sales were up 0.6% on a 12 month ended basis driven mainly by strong industrial demand.
We continue to see slightly lower weather normalized consumption at the residential level reflecting anticipated energy efficiencies.
Now please turn to Slide 10 which recaps our regulatory rate base and returns.
The pie chart on the left presents the components of our regulative rate base of approximately $8.9 billion.
As denoted in the two shades of blue approximately 85% of this rate base is related to the electric business.
In the block on the right you will see SCE&amp;G's base electric businesses in which we were allowed a 10.25% return on equity.
The earned return for the 12 months ended December 31st in the base electric business is approximately 10% meeting our stated goal of earning a return of 9% or higher to prevent the need for non-BLRA-related base rate increases during the peak nuclear construction years.
We're very pleased with the execution of our strategy.
Continuing down the page on our new nuclear business we're allowed an 11% return on equity.
As you may recall the Public Service Commission of South Carolina approved our 2014 request for revised rates under the BLRA which added incremental CWIP of approximately $561 million to our rate base and increased rates by approximately 2.8% in November.
Our regulated gas businesses in the Carolinas continue to perform well.
We're allowed a return on equity of 10.6% and 10.25% in North Carolina and South Carolina respectively and we continue to operate these businesses within a reasonable range of those returns.
As a reminder in November SCE&amp;G's gas business implemented a $2.6 million revenue reduction as a result of the Rate Stabilization Act.
Slide 11 presents our CapEx forecast.
This forecast has been updated to reflect our most current CapEx projections for 2015 and '16 and is now inclusive of our 2017 estimates.
Note that this forecast excludes CGT and SCI as the sale of CGT has been completed and the transaction for SCI is expected to close by the end of this quarter.
Also this forecast reflects the company's current estimate of new nuclear spending through 2017 which is updated from what was filed in our quarterly BLRA report.
The data in the BLRA reports are limited to the last approved order by this Public Service Commission in South Carolina and are not always consistent with our new nuclear CapEx expectations.
This forecast more accurately aligns itself with our anticipated project spending over the next three years as it relates to the schedule delay.
At the bottom of the Slide we recapped the new nuclear CWIP from July 1 through June 30 to correspond to the periods on which the BLRA rate increases are calculated.
Now please turn to Slide 12.
To summarize our financings for 2014 on May 27th SCE&amp;G issued $300 million of 50 year bonds at 4.5%.
On the equity side we issued approximately $100 million from 401(NYSE:<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/K" title="Kellogg Company">K</a>) matching and DRIP plans.
Looking forward we have revised our estimated financing plan through 2019.
While these are our best estimates of incremental debt and equity issuances it's unlikely that these issuances will occur exactly as presented as they're subject to changing in our funding needs for planned project expenses.
This plan contemplates both the estimated delays in the timing of the disbursements related to the new nuclear project as well as deployment of the proceeds from the sale of the subsidiaries.
As mentioned in our press release the plan to use the cash precedes net of taxes from the sales of subs to displace equity issuances.
However until we can fully deploy the proceeds for that purpose we're taking advantage of this infusion of cash.
Earlier this month SCANA redeemed in advance a maturity at par with $150 million 2009 Series A 7.7% Enhanced Junior Subordinated Notes.
In addition we have delayed long-term debt issuances and are reducing our short-term borrowings.
We also turned off the issuance of new shares to supply our 401(<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/K" title="Kellogg Company">K</a>) and DRIP plans earlier this year and anticipate delaying the need for any additional equity issuances until 2017.
We don’t currently project the need for any additional equity beyond the new shares provided by the use of 401(<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/K" title="Kellogg Company">K</a>) and the DRIP plan which we will turn on as needed.
Overall we continue to adjust the financing to match the related CapEx on a 50-50 debt and equity basis.
Obviously the construction delay has slowed expenditures but they were also significantly reduced by lower than anticipated escalation.
The delay is a matter of timing but the escalation on those components already received or completed will result in permanent savings.
Any change in the amount or timing of the new nuclear cost would obviously result in changing this plan.
I would now like to discuss our 2015 earnings guidance and related assumptions as shown on Slide 13.
First as you can see on the top left on the slide we are resetting our base year for our long-term GAAP adjusted average annual growth guidance of 3% to 6% over the next three years to five years off of 2014's GAAP adjusted weather normalized EPS of $3.58 per share.
Our 2015 operating plan exclusive of the aggregate gains on the sale of the two subsidiaries would have resulted in $3.74 per share.
However we project the 2015 earnings will be negatively impacted about $0.04 per share due to the short term impact of these two sales while these transactions are expected to yield approximately $0.04 per share of accretion on a long-term basis all of the proceeds can’t be efficiently deployed in the short run to displace equity needs.
As such we believe there will be downward pressure on 2015 expected earnings which is considered in our guidance.
Therefore our 2015 net internal target for GAAP adjusted earnings is $3.70 per share.
Our GAAP adjusted earnings per share guidance in $3.60 to $3.80 per share.
But due to the cyclical nature of our business we expect to earn approximately 30% of this amount in the first quarter approximately 25% in each the third and fourth quarters and the remaining 20% in the second quarter.
And completing this guidance range we’ve included the impact of a base rate increase from nuclear filing and the BLRA the 2014 gas RSA filing and our view of the economy.
This guidance also incorporates the CapEx and financing plans we presented earlier.
We continue to assume customer average use of electricity will be slightly lower this year as energy efficiency trends continue to work their way into the market.
We anticipate overall weather normalized retail electric sales growth for 2015 to decline by approximately 0.6%.
We forecast electric customer growth to be similar to 2014.
Operation and maintenance expenses are expected to be relatively flat in 2015 compared to 2014 actual.
Our effective tax rate for 2014 was slightly less than 32% and we estimate the rate for 2015 exclusive of the taxes on the gains of the sales of subsidiaries will be approximately 31%.
Hopefully this will provide you with the line of site into our view of 2015 as you update your models.
Finally I’ll mention that earlier today we announced an increase in our annual dividend rate for 2015 at $0.08 to $2.18 per share a 3.8% increase.
The result of 2014 and confidence in the long-term strategy were key considerations.
We continue to anticipate growing dividends fairly consistent with earnings while staying within our stated paying out policy of 55% to 60%.
I’ll now turn the call over to Steve to provide an update on our nuclear project.
Thanks Jimmy.
I want to begin by recapping the preliminary new nuclear construction schedule on cost information we received from the Consortium.
As described last week in our quarterly BLRA update filing with the Public Service Commission of South Carolina the Consortium has indicated the substantial completion date for Unit 2 is expected to occur by June of 2019 and the substantial completion date for Unit 3 maybe approximately 12 months later.
We are continuing our discussions with the Consortium in order to identify potential mitigation strategies to possibly accelerate the substantial completion date of Unit 2 to a time earlier in the first half of 2019 or to the end of 2018 with Unit 3 following approximately 12 months later.
As Jimmy previously mentioned we’re in the miss with negotiation process with the Consortium and we cannot predict when the revised schedule and cost estimates will be resolved.
Further neither SCE&amp;G nor Santee Cooper has accepted the new preliminary schedule or financial responsibility associated with these delays.
We anticipate filling a petition requesting an adjustment to our current capital cost and construction schedules with the public service commission before the end of this quarter.
Under the BLRA the [plan] has six months to reaching its order.
I’d now like to discuss some of the activities at the new nuclear construction site.
On slide 14 you can see an aerial photo of the site from December.
I have labeled both units 2 and 3 as well as many other areas that make up the construction table top and as you can see progress continue to take place on the project.
Slide 15 shows where some of the module fabrication has been moved from CB&amp;I’s Lake Charles Louisiana facility to various other venues in the United States and Japan.
Fabrication and the CA03 sub modules continues at the SMCI facility in Florida.
Newport News Industries in Virginia is fabricating and continues to ship shield building panels to the site.
Oregon Iron Works and Toshiba IHI Corporation are the principal fabricators for Unit 3’s CA-20 and CA01 sub modules respectively.
On Slide 16 you can see a picture of the Unit 2 nuclear island.
In this picture you can see module CA-20 along with the containment vessel Ring 1 which has been placed on the containment vessel lower bowl.
The lower bowl is now covered by the auxiliary building walls as they are coming up to what we call elevation 100 which is about 35 feet above the base map.
Once elevation 100 has been reached; work will begin on the annex building which will house the electrical switch gear for plant.
Slide 17 shows a schematic of the modules inside the containment vessel.
And here you can see the locations of modules CA-01 02 03 and 05 which we’ll further discuss shortly.
Slide 18 has an explored view of CA01 through 05 showing where they fits especially inside the containment vessels.
Slide 19 shows the recent picture of Unit 2 Module CA01.
CA01 houses the steam generators and pressurizer and forms our fueling canal inside the containment vessels.
We currently have all 47 sub modules on sight and 34 of those sub modules are up right and being assembled in the module assembly building or MAB.
Slide 20 the shipment from Yokohama Japan of the first in Unit 3 CA01 sub module fabricated by Toshiba which should be on sight in early March.
Slide 21 shows pictures of the Unit 2 Module CA05 this module comprises one of the major wall sections within the containment vessel.
On the top right you can see Module CA05 inside of the tent where the final weld is completed prior to placement.
On December 6 2014 this module was lifted with the heavy lift derrick as seen on the left hand side of the slide and placed in a containment vessel as seen on the bottom right hand side of the slide.
On slide 22 you can see an area of picture with a good view of the containment vessel rings that are currently being fabricated for Units 2 and 3.
As you can see on the bottom right the Unit 2 containment vessel Ring 1 has been placed on top of the containment vessel lower bowl and Ring 2 is complete and will be set after placement of structural module CA01.
Across the top of the picture you can see three other containment vessel rings that are in the process of being fabricated for Units 2 and 3 each unit has a total of 3 ring sections.
In addition the steel for the Unit 2 containment vessel top closure head is also on site.
Slide 23 shows the picture of the Unit 3 Nuclear Island here you can see where the containment vessel lower bowl has been placed and their nearest building walls continue to take shape.
On slide 24 you can see an arrow picture showing the four low profile four stacked cooling towers.
Cooling towers 2 Alpha and 3 Alpha are both structurally complete and you can see the progress continuing on 2 Bravo and 3 Bravo.
On slide 25 you can see one of the two steam generators for Unit 2 that arrived at the construction site on January.
The component was transported from the port of Charleston by rail on a specifically designed [snaffle] car.
This steam generator weighs approximately 1.3 million pounds it’s about 20 feet in diameter and it’s almost 82 feet long Slide 26 shows shield building panels for Unit 2.
The shield building surrounds the containment vessel.
These panels will be welded together and concrete will be poured inside the panel to create shield building.
On left you can see one of the panels up close on the right you can see the lay down yard where we have begun receiving the panels.
We currently have received 44 of the 167 Unit 2 panels that are provided by Newport News Industries.
I want to also briefly mention the 8-inch explosive of squib bells which are a key component of the passive safety system of the AP1000 design.
They’ve recently passed a series of engineering test to determine if they will properly operate under extreme conditions such as high pressure and temperature.
That’s great news for the project as it prepares the valves for testing to qualify them versus margins.
On slide 27 you will see the new nuclear CapEx actual and projected over the life of construction.
This chart also reflects our company’s current actual and estimated new nuclear CapEx during the years 2008 to 2020 which as Jimmy previously discussed is updated from what we filed in the latest quarterly BLRA report.
As you can see the next several years are the peak nuclear construction period the green line represents the related actual and projected customer rate increases under the BLRA and is associated with the right hand access.
As a reminder the incremental 5% future acquisition of the new nuclear project from Santee Cooper will not affect these projected BLRA increases.
Please now turn to Slide 28 as mentioned in our third quarter call in September the public service commission approved a rate increase of 66.2 million.
The new rates were effective for bills rendered on or after October 30th.
Our BLRA filings for 2015 are shown at the bottom of the slide and as you can see we recently filed our quarterly status report for the fourth quarter.
That concludes our prepared remarks we’ll now be glad to respond any questions you might have.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session (Operator Instructions).
The first question comes from Andrew Weisel from Macquarie Capital.
Please go ahead.
For Steve if I heard you correctly you said that you will be filing with the commission the updated schedule by the end of the first quarter.
Is that in relation to missing the milestone with CA03 Unit 2 or is that a function of your expectation that you will reach the statement with the consortium by then or both are those potentially two separate filings? What’s the strategy around that? Yes the filings really are to update the cost and the schedule.
I do not anticipate at this point in time that we will have a settlement with the consortium when we file the update petition by the end of the quarter.
I could be surprised but I would not anticipate that happening.
So then what happens if you're in the midst of a review of the already seen delays when you reach your settlement will that settlement be merging to the same review? Would you have to have a second review? No I would think that it would -- everything will depend upon timing but we will file petition we will have some period of time to generate testimony.
We will then have a formal hearing few months later and then its six months from the time we file the commission has to render their opinion.
So it depends on when it will happen in that process but obviously if it were happen before we went to hearing and we could amend the filing of the petition.
And then my other question was you mentioned the goal to stay out of rate cases during peak construction.
Now that the peak construction has pushed out a few years and goes through 2017 is that still the hope to avoid a non-nuclear rate increase through 2017? That remains our goal.
Then one last one when I look at the CapEx schedule you provided in the slides for new nuclear I compare that to the appendix 2 of the BLRA.
And they're usually pretty close this time it seems like there CapEx numbers are more different than normal.
Is there anything unusual going on between those two? Just timing Andrew so we've just been pulling this altogether very real-time and it's a time we file the BLRA last Friday we knew that we would end up with different information today that will be fairly similar we think to what we file in the update filings Steve mentioned but we footnoted that in the BLRA that those items will be changing in the near term so it's just kind of the timing of everything.
So the numbers in the slide are the more up-to-date ones? That's exactly right.
Your next question comes from Jim von Riesemann from Mizuho.
Please go ahead.
Quick question for you in the press release you talked about the interest savings on the nuclear project.
Am I thinking about this correctly that you have roughly 1.2 billion in potential interest rate savings versus the original project cost? So if that stays on plan and let's assume a worst case scenario where the 660 million construction dispute is those against you and the entire things so that's a real worst case basis.
Does that mean you're still into the original project cost and you're going to wind up and the customers are not going to be impacted in anyway? And this is really the first time we've emphasized those interest savings so we were really trying to clarify some misunderstanding some in the financial markets and some in the local area here where our folks really weren’t understanding the escalation saving so we're projecting as you know in the BLRA somewhere around $575 million of lower escalation today than when we originally started the project.
And sometimes they have been confused with lower financing cost.
That lower escalation is just lower escalation on the actual labor and modules et cetera associated with the construction.
It has nothing to do with the financing cost.
So what we put in the press release is our estimate of the estimated savings over the tenure of the bonds that we have issued and those that we've locked in of the savings that would occur over the life of those so they're really two different matters.
As far as your real question about would be 660 million be offset by the 1.2 billion.
I'd say it really be offset dollar-for-dollar by the escalation savings because those are more in today's dollars the 1.2 billion are savings to occur over the future of the bonds some 30 plus years.
Your next question comes from Ashar Khan of Visium.
Please go ahead.
Can I just follow up to a couple of things on earnings? You had mentioned Jimmy into your remarks that the deal would be accretive by about $0.04 by the time you utilize the proceeds.
So will that have happened by '16 or '17? We project it will have happened by the end of '16 based upon the current projected equity needs to finance the project.
Of course that's somewhat dependent upon the pace of the project and the construction expenditures but it will not have happened by the beginning of '16.
We're comfortable it will have happened by the beginning of '17 more likely sometime during the year.
So that means as we look at '15 to '17 earnings there will be like a $0.08 shift on this $0.04 dilution going away and then by '17 year a $0.04 accretion coming am I thinking to that correctly? Correct.
Secondly you had mentioned that the new schedule that you have presented this schedule under which the new CapEx in the forecast under this schedule the rate -- the Unit number one comes online towards the end of ‘19 and Unit number two 12 months later that is the basis of the projections you’re providing us today is that correct? I think what we said was the projection from the Consortium that’s constructing the plan is that the first unit Unit 2 will come online about mid-2019.
So we got June of 2019 date hung on that.
So we’re still working on mitigation strategies to try to pull that forward.
Yes but what you’ve given us today in the slide assumes the mid June of 2019 is that correct what we have in front of us today.
Yes.
Steve we’re just clarifying in your question you said the end of ‘19 mid-19.
Mid-19 okay.
And can you just speak about the -- I kind of get mixed up -- so this new schedule which you’re presenting.
How much extra cost does this have versus what was in the previous presentation? There isn’t any increase cost over what we presented previously remember we presented a range previously and we said first half of ‘19 was tail under the range so we’re calling numbers now that at the tail-end of that range that we quoted last time.
But the numbers that we quoted before that the Consortium is asking for I think we gave our 55% share at about 660 million that number is not changed also remember though that does not include owners cost or escalation that was reference in $2007.
So those increased cost are not part of these projections yet or are they? What the Consortium feels like there in title to are not baked into the numbers.
So if we take the 660 we may have taken some portion of that and included them in the projection but certainly not all of it.
Okay.
So you have taken your own rough as to what you are responsible for and you’ve included that and the remaining you have left often which you think are not responsible for these numbers.
That’s fair yes.
Okay.
And that is forecast that you’re going to present to that commission in about five weeks’ time? Yes by the end of the quarter we’ll present to the commission we haven’t nailed down exactly what we’re going to present to the commission yet.
So I wouldn’t say that what you’re seeing on these projections is exactly what we’re going to present to the commission.
Okay fair enough.
And then if I can just kind of like end up with is that when is it by the middle of the year or is it towards the second half of the year that we can expect some kind of settlement of timing? Ashar we’d love to be able to tell you that but the things are going slow.
The good news is that we’re still talking we’re still going back in fourth but they are going much slower than I would have anticipated.
So a little vary that forecast that it would happen by the end of the second quarter right now.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
The next question comes from Michael Weinstein of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Couple of questions Southern recently gave their estimate of owners costs including financing cost on a monthly basis I’m just wondering is there any chance that you guys might provide that as well.
You’re looking at four -- that quarter I think two things one of them was burn rate for owners cost and another one was for financing cost.
On the owners’ cost I think you can assume we’re very similar to that.
The financing cost however their structure in Georgia their contract the way they finance is a little different than way we’re financing so I don’t think you can make the assumption of financing cost.
But on the owners’ cost the burn rate they quoted you can use roughly the same numbers for us.
Thank you.
And also separate topic the South Carolina distributed energy resource program is there any opportunity for you guys to participate in a solar bills regulated solar bills in South Carolina.
Yes there may be some opportunity that’s all being sorted out now.
There is process in front of the commission at this time.
So there may be some opportunity in there but it’s really -- that’s limited the whole legislation is aiming for South Carolina as a state to get some good experience with renewables not just sellable with renewables in general and the goal is for or the requirement really is for 2% to be 2% of our generation to be in distributed 1% utility 1% in customer scale in fact 20-20.
And we think those are our challenges to get done but we think we will get them done.
But there may be a small opportunity for us to participate in I expect there will be but I don’t think it will be material to our financial results.
Thank you so much.
The next question comes from Travis Miller of Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Thank you.
Question back on this filing that you’re talking about here by the end of the quarter and time line elements I mean the cost think I can understand you want recovery et cetera.
The time line thing is this more of a notification to the commission that the time line is different than originally approved or is there some implication here in terms of regulators looking at that time line that’s outside of what was originally approved and therefore something happens and I would think in worst case something like a per day or something like that? Does the schedule part of it being outside of that original approved band advance have any implication? This is Steve the implications are we have to go through a formal hearing process which is what the application that we would file by the end of the quarter.
So in between then and the six months later when an order have to be issued we’ll have a hearing and at hearing we’ll have our opportunity to explain what happened with the public service commission.
It would have to really be in prudence before they would deny it and prudency on the part of us the utility which I think they would be very difficult for anybody to prove.
We have done this once before so we’ve asked for a rebase line of our schedule -- our function path and that was approved by the public service commission by a 7/0 vote.
Okay so if they did rule in prudency based on the schedule delays then that would go into the cost side and potential recovery or not recovery is that fair to think about as gating factor so to speak? I am not sure it would be a gating factor I am not sure exactly what they might do with it.
I don’t think it would be fair to assume they would just say no but is a hearing process and we will have to make our case for why the schedule extension is reasonable which certainly we think we can make.
But we will be asking for what we’ve pointed out today so those new schedules.
So this is our opportunity to explain that to the commission because we’re not allowed to have conversations with them outside of this formal hearing or an [expartake] briefing process.
And Travis let me just add that that I guess this is obvious to everyone but what we’ll be presenting is the future not what’s occurred behind us so this is about permission not about asking for forgiveness.
The next question comes from Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
Please go ahead.
Most of my questions have been answered but just a refresh on you were talking to Ashar about this the accretion associated with the asset sale.
You’re going to have a negative $0.04 now and then you’re going to have that reversed and then you’re going to have an accretion of $0.04.
Is that correct? That’s correct and maybe I can just summarize another way one strategy we could have deployed is to take all the cash fill out and buy back shares today.
And if that had happened we would project the earnings for ’15 would have been $0.08 higher not $0.04 lower but we would then back to the 374 + 4 because of the accretion.
We didn’t think that strategy made a lot of sense given the valuation of the industry sector given prices are start today to go out and buy shares today and then go sell shares again 12-18 months later.
Just tried to clear that up I thought I’d walk through that.
Okay and then on top of that just aside the sales growth you guys are projecting is negative 0.6% on a weather adjusted basis.
Is that correct? Yes this year.
And now you talked about similar customer growth that you guys had in the past.
Is that right? Yes.
Okay and then going forward I mean it’s a crystal ball kind of question like a lot of these are but what do you think longer term -- what do you think the state of growth would be sales growth for you guys? That’s really addressed in our IRP and we expect something just over 1.5% net so a gross would be closer to maybe 1.8% or 2% less energy efficiency and demand side manage was something around 1.6% 1.5%.
We’ll be filing another update to that in a few weeks but we don’t expect a significant change from on a net basis what we filed last year.
That’s a pretty significant change on a weather adjusted basis.
It is and a lot of that’s really being driven by industrial number one and number two by these energy efficiency standards really working themselves through the pipeline over the next two to three years.
So we feel like that’s being going on two for three years historically and will occur another two or three years.
So the view I just gave you on the longer term is a 15 year view.
So we probably going to have for the next three to five years -- two or three years not much it’s probably going to be pretty anemic growth I guess outside of industrial brands.
Exactly especially residential and commercial.
The next question comes from Jonathan Reader of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Jimmy just want to make sure going back to short -- I fully understand what’s in the 2015 to ’17 new nuclear CapEx forecast.
So that reflects mid-2019 and mid 2020 online dates and perhaps some sort of additional cost responsibility of that 660 million amount that you previously cited is that correct? Well on the dates portion yes on the 660 most of what is in here incrementally relates to our owners cost that roughly can may get month or so that Steve discussed earlier as well as some escalation on that owners cost as well as some minority of the 660 that we feel like is fairly clear-cut that the contortion would be entitled to but the majority of the 660 is not in these revised numbers.
And then because you're now assuming that June or mid 2019 date is that why you kind of tweaked the language a little bit in the BLRA filings saying about the June? Or should we be thinking if any less likely that you could potentially mitigate some of that scheduled delay at this point? I think we're been fairly realistic.
There are some things that we can yet do to accelerate deliveries of modules that we are going to do.
And we bake that into what we're assuming would be additional cost for us so that's already in those numbers.
Some of what you see is a spreading for a couple more of periods or couple more years to reflect these new June and June substantial completion dates or completion dates.
Again we haven’t accepted them yet; the contortion is still working to try to improve those so we're going to exhaust every effort to try to improve those dates but what we intend to go forward with is the June and June just.
Okay so you guys just go forward with that it will just give you more flexibility in terms of moving forward with the project is that the way to kind of think about it? Correct.
And then last question Steve if you go in a little bit of detail like what was going on at the SMCI facility in Florida there are issues down there that I guess you felt the need to put a person on the ground monitoring it? Yes we think we've seen some benefit from putting somebody on the ground at the Lake Charles facility and so we want to do it a little earlier at these other facilities so we have somebody at the SMCI facility but we're also putting people at other facilities.
So we have done and we'll surely have somebody at the NNI facility in Virginia and we have done and we'll surely have somebody at the Oregon Iron Works facility out in Oregon in Portland.
So we just think that's an important part of oversight going forward so we don’t repeat the mistakes that were made at Lake Charles and that kind of thing does add to owners cost so when we say we're adding cost those costs are in what we're forecasting going forward as well and then we'll ask from the commission by the end of the quarter.
So it's just kind of what you see as the best practice type thing and we shouldn’t necessarily be concerned that I guess there's something going wrong down there right now that could be a potential hurdle down the road? I'd be putting the residents in place is really -- it's prudent for us.
Your next question comes from Andy Levi from Avon Capital Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Just a few questions on the nuke side.
Just on the 660 that that's in $2007 is that what you're saying I know you said that before but I just want to make sure that? Yes the 660 that we get from the contortion was all referenced in $2007 but that's when our contract was referenced in.
So is there a way to kind of figure out what the real number is? Well that's what they gave us the number so you just have to escalate it from there to get to a present day number but we haven’t done that yet.
We haven’t reported on that yet.
And then what's the mechanism to fight or cover these costs I guess unrelated to the BLRA so if you don’t want the rate payers to pay for it? How will you get the money? Or not pay the money or how does it work? Yes so the best way to get the money back is not to pay in the first place.
So the contract has in it dispute resolution provisions but we're trying to negotiate outside of that right now.
And if that were to fail then contract provisions would kick in but it's basically its mediation arbitration and net litigation.
And so our last guess will be to get to litigation not saying we won't get there but we're going to try and negotiate first.
And then if you do go to litigation route if they announce at the ends of getting that far you would withhold paying at some point or a portion or do you have like certain threshold that you need to kind of pay as you go? There are contractually some thresholds that we would have to pay for disputed costs and then there's other categories of things that we just don’t think there's any entitlement to which we would move and obviously want to withhold.
And that would be to the consortium so whether it's Westinghouse CBI or Toshiba that’s who we’re talking about? Or is it only to a certain entity? Now we can build by the Consortium and we pay the Consortium so they act as an entity one entity.
Got it.
Okay thank you very very much.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Just want to make sure I understood one thing I got a little bit used to it when the discussion came about to including or not including part of this 660 million.
The thing I want to make sure is the number the total number in that CapEx slide that you’re showing today is that a bigger number than what you showed in the prior quarter slide or was it the exact same number.
Well I think when you look at as a three year look at CapEx and if you look at the three year period the numbers are very close they are different though in every year so we move the cost around and what you don’t see in the three year look is the expansion out for a couple of more years.
So now that are running through 2018 or 2019 we’re now running through 2020.
So in the three you don’t necessarily see that.
So what we’ve included in the capital forecast going forward would be where we see the normal construction process and our payments based on the Consortium achieving milestones and we’ve added what we’re estimating for increases in owners’ cost and change orders of the consortium that we would dispute.
There are some things like cyber security cyber security rules were not around when the contract was negotiated they changed so we have to account for that.
So we wouldn’t necessarily dispute the fact we have to pay for cyber and so that would be an example of the change that we will include in the filing with that coming up.
So to the extend with those cost will be in the next three years that’s in what you’re seeing and we’ve included number of escalation on our owners’ cost and we have taken what we would call a minimal amount of entitlement.
So of that 660 there is a portion of that that we said we probably would not dispute that so we’ve included that in the cost.
But not to bias my negotiating position I’m not going to say exactly what that is.
Got it.
But if I look at the slide at the end of the presentation which has the full cycle of CapEx to completion in that slide the numbers that are detailed in the prior and as such in the out years would that change? That’s right Michael.
When you file that with the commission if you don’t have the settlement with CBI and in Westinghouse what is it you’re exactly filing? Are you just filing for extension based on the new schedule or are you filing for some other type of labor or approval? No we’re going to file based on a schedule that reflects the June of ‘19 and June of ‘20 dates and when we will also file for additional capital cost based on what we know.
Okay.
And right now do you have a pull from the vendors or from the Consortium integrated project schedule that takes me through completion? Yes I’ve got a schedule that you to completion yes.
Got it okay.
And that date is June 2019 date are they giving your full IPF and now it’s a question of what can you mitigate of the IPF? That’s correct.
[Operator Instructions] Next question comes from Andy Levi from Avon Capital Advisors with the follow up.
Please go head.
I apologize; I should have asked this question to begin with.
This kind of compare notes like from southern company and all that just to understand the way their contracts written; again this is me talking not them talking.
And just also understand speaking to Westinghouse to CBI that if the delay is regulatory delay meaning it caused by the NRC theoretically the plant owner is the one who pays for in Southern’s case is that also the case with you guys? Andy our contract has traditional change order type language so a force-majeure event would trigger change orders certainly if it was a change in the regulation then they will be entire to a change order and it’s a good example that would be cyber security the regulation changed so we’ve amended the contract to account for that and it will cost us little bit more for cyber security where we would perhaps different with the Consortium is their interpretation what’s call the regulatory driven change and we would not accept that’s the change in the regulations.
So we are at odds over that topic.
Okay.
I’m just talking about whether issues of late trials again it’s a matter of opinion or whatever the delay is if it’s a delay that in their eyes was caused by the NRC theoretically in their eyes you would be on the hook for that again you may dispute that and be very correct in disputing in that but that’s kind of how it works? That correct.
Okay and then Southern talked about liquidated damages and they’d be kind of looking to recovery those.
Is that kind of your position as well? Yes our contract has in it liquidated damage provision and I think whenever we’re done releases our BLRAs and we’ve talked about numbers we’ve pointed out that those are not yet net of liquidated damages.
Any you haven’t put a number on those liquidated damages right? We haven’t no.
Okay and then a non-nuclear question I have and this is for Jimmy.
On your guidance that you gave what’s the midpoint or what’s the sales growth assumption there to get to the midpoint of your [CARG]? So of customers or retail load retail sales? Retail sales.
It’s actually negative 0.6%.
And we’ve a follow up from Ashar Khan from Visium.
Please go ahead.
Jimmy could you just -- this is something new which I guess street hasn’t focused on.
So could you just outline the savings -- cost escalation savings that you mentioned in the beginning? Where did they arrived from and I forget now which dollar numbers are they and which year’s numbers are they are they present day’s numbers are they -- could you just explain to me again those savings escalation savings that have occurred over the period of time could you? Yes so to make sure I don’t further confuse it just let me go back so what we’ve been presenting in each BLRA would be the total projected cost each time we file the report each quarter for our 55% share.
And we originally of course we’re improved for $6.3 billion in total future estimated cost and our current projections are just over $0.5 billion less than that about $575 million less.
All of those reports to-date have been focused on the lower escalation if you will the lower inflation during the construction period that the consortium was entitled to bill us for based upon publicly available inflation industries associated with construction.
What we put in our press release today has nothing to do with that.
That is the financing cost what’s the consortium bills us with whatever the escalation is how do we go out and finance it on debt side so the equity side is fairly straight forward 50% we financed in equity through the BLRA and 11% ROE.
The 50% that we financed with debt we’re doing with first mortgage bonds.
We had originally estimated in our BLRA filing based upon our embedded cost of debt at the time.
A debt of about 6.4% whereas overall we issued bonds at slightly under 5% life to-date on the project and all of those are fixed rate bonds.
And so what we’ve disclosed is we estimate that the savings on those over the life of the bonds will be $700 million about $20 million a year and then additional bonds that we expect issue in the next two years that we’ve already hedged the rate on we estimate to save another 500 - 25 million on those over the life of those bonds.
So that’s the 1.225 billion in interest savings we expect to occur over the life of those bonds that are outstanding and completely independent of the escalation to lower inflation on the construction as well.
So if I understand correctly the project currently from the date started is coming in current dollar 500 or 75 or whatever the number is below projected cost as you stand today.
And so we created because of lower inflation or management or whatever a cushion of $575 million from the initial estimates that we gave to the commission.
And that is in the pocket I guess the rate peers of South Carolina are going to benefit from that which has already occurred.
And now I guess the next step is what is the additional cost which has to be of course settled with the consortium which would be on the project from that lower estimated cost that we are currently on.
That’s almost --.
In essence we could come out pretty close to or slightly above there is no cost that we started off at? We could -- one minor clarification of what you just said the 500 million or so that we’re projecting to be below at this point some of that has already occurred some of it is what we project to happen between now and the completion of the project.
So not all of that has occurred yet with that lower escalation escalation could be even lower in the future it could be higher in the future.
So that could change between now and the completion.
Okay that’s further great news.
So how much can you tell me how much of that is banked and how much is not banked? You know I don’t have that in my fingertips Ashar but it's I think it's available in our public filing and I'll have IR file assuming it is.
And second if I can end up Jimmy now based on the spending being moved a little bit further out and reducing the equity needs and of course now you have lowered the pace and all that.
When can you be in a situation and you've been growing more on the kind of in the higher portion of the growth rate when can you be in the situation of moving the growth rate upwards? I don’t know the answer to that question if that will occur or when it will occur we continually evaluate our look and I would say that really the wild card in that is the whole issue we've discussed with two or three Q&amp;As today around base on electricity consumption.
So if it were just a matter of modeling in the BLRA it'd be fairly simple to answer that question you could kind of model it after the peak construction years but when the foundation of the business is changing somewhat even though it's only 0.06% negative when you've got 700 000 customers you're projecting to use slightly less that makes it difficult to answer your question.
So we updated it best to our experience each year and at this point we still feel like it's our best estimate.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Jimmy Addison SCANA's Chief Financial Officer for any closing remarks.
Well thank you.
2014 was certainly a very unusual year relative to weather but aside from the weather we're very pleased with our underlying economic growth the operation of our businesses and the refinement of our focus around our core retail businesses.
Accordingly we're really optimistic about our future.
And finally I mentioned that Steve and I will be on the road the first week of March in New York and Boston at investor conferences and we hope to see many of you there.
Thank you for joining us today and for your interest in SCANA.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period [Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Thursday April 30 2015.
Anyone who does not consent to the taping may drop off the line.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Susan Wright Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Thank you and welcome to our Analyst Call.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the first quarter of 2015.
Joining us on the call today are Jimmy Addison SCANA's Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer of SCE&amp;G.
During the call Jimmy will provide an overview of our financial results and related matters and Steve will provide an update on our new nuclear project.
After our comments we will respond to your questions.
The slides and earnings release referenced to in this call are available at scana.com.
Additionally we post information related to our new nuclear project and other Investor Relations information directly to our Web site at scana.com.
On SCANA's home page there is a yellow box containing links to the new nuclear development and other Investor information section of the Web site.
It is possible that some of the information that we will be posting from time to time may be deemed material information that has not otherwise become public.
You can sign up for e-mail alerts under the investor relations section of scana.com to notify you when there is a new posting in the nuclear development and or other investor information section of the Web site.
Finally before I turn the call over to Jimmy I would like to remind you that certain statements that may be made during today's call are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as shown on Slide 2.
The Company does not recognize an obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Additionally we may disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation.
The required Reg G information can be found in the investor relations section of our Web site under Web casts and presentations.
I'll now turn the call over to Jimmy.
Thanks Susan.
And thank you all for joining us today.
I'll begin our earnings discussion on Slide 3.
GAAP earnings in the first quarter of 2015 were $2.80 per share compared to $1.37 per share in the same quarter of 2014.
The improved results in the first quarter are mainly attributable to the net of tax gains on the sales of CGT and SCI and higher electric margins due primarily to a Base Load Review Act rate increase and customer growth.
Also O&amp;M presented a favorable variance which is primarily attributable to CGT only operating as part of the SCANA family for one month.
These were partially offset by lower electric margins due to weather lower gas margins and expected increases in CapEx-related items including interest property taxes and share dilution.
Note that even though weather had a negative impact on earnings year over year it was still abnormally cold and earnings increased by $0.05 per share in the first quarter 2015 compared to $0.10 per share in the first quarter of 2014.
Slide 4 shows earnings on a GAAP-adjusted weather-normalized basis.
Earnings in the first quarter of 2015 were $1.34 per share compared to $1.27 per share in the same quarter of 2014.
This excludes the impact of abnormal weather and the net of tax gains on the sales of CGT and SCI in the first quarter of 2015 of $1.41 per share.
Now on Slide 5 I'd like to briefly review results for our principal lines of business.
On a GAAP basis South Carolina Electric and Gas Company's first-quarter 2015 earnings were relatively flat when compared to the same quarter of 2014.
However exclusive of the previously mentioned impacts of weather earnings per share were up $0.05 in the first quarter of 2015 over the first quarter of 2014.
Increases in earnings were due primarily to the continued recovery of financing costs through the BLRA customer growth and a decrease in operation and maintenance expenses.
These items were offset by a decrease in gas margins as well as increases in expenses related to our capital program including interest expense property taxes depreciation and share dilution.
PSNC Energy's earnings were $0.24 per share for the first quarter of 2015 consistent with the prior year.
SCANA Energy our retail and natural gas marketing business in Georgia showed an increase in first quarter earnings of $0.03 per share in 2015 over last year.
This improvement was primarily attributable to increased margins.
On a GAAP basis SCANA's corporate and other businesses reported earnings of $1.48 per share in the first quarter of 2015 compared to $0.08 per share in the prior year.
Excluding the net of tax gains on the sales of CGT and SCI of $1.41 per share GAAP-adjusted EPS was down $0.01 over the prior year.
This is mainly attributable to lower interest expense at the Holding Company being more than offset by the foregone earnings contribution from the subsidiaries that were sold.
I would now like to touch on economic trends in our service territory on Slide 6.
We continue to see new business growth and expansion of existing businesses.
So far in 2015 companies have announced plans to invest over $600 million with the expectation of creating over 1 600 jobs in our Carolinas territories.
Most significantly Mercedes Benz announced plans last month to invest about $500 million to build a new commercial van assembly plant in Charleston creating approximately 1 300 jobs.
South Carolina continues to be seen as a favorable place to start and/or expand existing businesses.
At the bottom of the slide you can see the national unemployment rate along with the rates for the three states where SCANA has a presence and the SCE&amp;G Electric territory.
South Carolina's unemployment rate is now 6.7% and the rate in SCE&amp;G's Electric territory is estimated at 5.6%.
While the South Carolina unemployment rate has slightly increased over the past few quarters March marked the 64th consecutive month of employment growth and the 14th consecutive month of labor force expansion as the number of people entering the workforce is at an all-time high.
Approximately 50 000 more South Carolinians are working today than a year ago.
Slide 7 presents customer growth and electric sales statistics.
On the top half of the slides are the customer growth rates for each of our regulated businesses.
We continue to see strong customer growth in our businesses and in the region.
SCE&amp;G's electric business added customers at a year-over-year rate of 1.5%.
Our regulated gas businesses in North and South Carolina added customers at 2.6% and 2.9% respectively.
Of particular note is the fact that all of these rates accelerated over rates a year ago.
The bottom table outlines our actual and weather-normalized kilowatt hour sales for the 12 months ended March 31 2015.
Overall weather-normalized total retail sales were flat on a 12 month ended basis.
We continue to see slightly lower weather normalized consumption at the residential level reflecting anticipated energy efficiencies which are offset by increases in industrial demand.
Now please turn to Slide 8 which recaps our regulatory rate base and returns.
The pie chart on the left presents the components of our regulated rate base of approximately $8.9 billion.
As denoted in the two shades of blue approximately 85% of this rate base is related to the electric business.
In the block on the right you will see SCE&amp;G's base electric business in which we're allowed a 10.25% return on equity.
The earned return for the 12 months ended March 31 in the base electric business is approximately 9.6% meeting our stated goal of earning a return of 9% or higher to prevent the need for non-BLRA-related base rate increases during the peak nuclear construction years.
We continue to be pleased with the execution of our strategy.
Continuing down the page on our new nuclear business we're allowed an 11% return on equity.
Last year the Public Service Commission of South Carolina approved our 2014 request for revised rates under the BLRA which added incremental CWIP of approximately $561 million to our rate base and increased rates by approximately 2.8% in November.
As Steve will discuss shortly we will be filing our new revised request for rates in May.
Our regulated gas businesses in the Carolinas continued to perform well.
We're allowed a return on equity of 10.6% and 10.25% in North and South Carolina respectively.
And we continue to operate these businesses within a reasonable range of those returns.
Slide 9 presents our CapEx forecast.
This forecast reflects new nuclear spending as reflected in the petition filed with the Public Service Commission of South Carolina on March 12 2015.
At the bottom of the slide we recapped the new nuclear CWIP from July 1 through June 30 to correspond to the periods on which the BLRA rate increases are historically calculated.
Now please turn to Slide 10 to review our estimated financing plan through 2017.
As a reminder in January we issued approximately $14 million in equity through our 401(k) and DRIP plans before turning the plans off to new shares.
By acquiring shares on the open market to satisfy the needs of these plans we can further utilize the cash proceeds from the sales of CGT and SCI.
We do not anticipate the need for further equity issuances until 2017 and currently expect we could satisfy future needs without follow-on offerings.
While these are our best estimates of incremental debt and equity issuances it is unlikely that these issuances will occur exactly as presented as they are subject to changes in funding needs for the planned project expenses.
And we continue to adjust the financing to match the related CapEx on a 50-50 debt and equity basis.
Finally on slide 11 we are reaffirming our GAAP-adjusted weather-normalized earnings guidance of $3.60 to $3.80 per share along with our internal target of $3.70 per share.
Our long-term GAAP-adjusted weather-normalized average annual growth guidance remains unchanged as we plan to deliver 3% to 6% earnings growth over the next three to five years using a base of 2014's GAAP-adjusted weather normalized EPS of $3.58 per share.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve to provide an update on our nuclear project.
Thanks Jimmy.
Please turn to slide 12.
I'd like to begin by discussing the petition that SCE&amp;G filed with the Public Service Commission of South Carolina on March 12.
The petition is seeking approval to update the construction milestone schedule as well as the capital cost schedule for the two new nuclear units.
The construction schedule without consideration of all mitigating strategies includes a substantial completion date of June of 2019 for Unit 2 and June of 2020 for Unit 3.
The new capital cost schedule includes incremental capital costs that total $698 million of which $539 million are associated with the delay and other contestant costs.
As previously noted negotiations continue with the Consortium and neither SCE&amp;G nor Santee Cooper has accepted responsibility for any contested and or delay-associated costs.
Further we cannot predict when these negotiations will be resolved.
I'd now like to discuss some of the activities at the new nuclear construction site.
Slide 13 presents an aerial photo of the site from last December.
Here you can see the layout of the site.
I've labeled both Units 2 and 3 as well as many other areas that make up the construction table top.
The site changes daily and for those of you that have been tracking the project for some time you can see that progress continues to take place.
On Slide 14 you can see a picture of the Unit 2 nuclear island.
In this picture you can see module CA20 along with containment vessel Ring 1 which has been placed on the containment vessel lower bowl.
Also visible in this photo are the personnel and equipment hatches which are located in the first ring section.
Work continues on the containment vessel prepared for placement of CA01 which we will discuss shortly.
Progress continues on achieving what we term elevation 100 as auxiliary building walls are being built up.
Once elevation 100 has been reached work will begin on the annex building which will house the electrical switch gear for the plant as well as placing of the shield building panels.
Slide 15 presents a schematic of the large structural modules that will be located inside the containment vessel.
And here you can see the locations of modules CA01 02 03 and 05 which we will further discuss shortly.
Slide 16 is another schematic view of the modules inside of the containment vessel.
This exploded view of CA01 through 05 gives you a better feel of how they fit spatially inside said containment vessel.
Slide 17 shows a recent picture of Unit 2 module CA01.
CA01 houses the steam generators the pressurizer and forms a refueling canal inside of the containment vessel.
On the right-hand side of the photo you can see an arc flash from the automatic process that's seam welding the sub-modules together.
This seam welding on all sub-modules in preparation for lifting has been completed in the module assembly building or MAB.
Once support concrete has been placed and cured the CA01 module will be moved outside of the MAB rigged to the heavy lift derrick and set in the Unit 2 containment vessel.
After the placement of CA01 for Unit 2 the next module to be placed will be module CA02.
Slide 18 shows a picture of CA02 as it is currently being fabricated.
We now have all five sub-modules on site with three standing upright for assembly in the MAB.
Module CA02 has a wall section that forms part of the in containment refueling water storage tank located inside that containment vessel.
Slide 19 shows a picture of the Unit 3 nuclear island.
The containment vessel lower bowl has been placed and the auxiliary building walls continue to take form.
On the left side of slide 20 you can see a picture of the Unit 2 turbine building.
And I've added an arrow showing where the construction is taking place for the turbine pedestal.
On the right you can see a picture from the top of the turbine building of the turbine pedestal.
The turbine pedestal will be concrete 10 feet thick and will support the Unit 2 turbine when completed.
Slide 21 shows some of the shield building panels that have arrived on site for Unit 2.
The shield building surrounds the containment vessel.
These panels will be welded together and concrete will be poured inside of the panels to create the shield building.
On the left you can see one of these panels up close.
On the right you can see the lay-down yard where we have been receiving these panels.
We currently have received about 60 of the 167 Unit 2 panels that were manufactured by Newport News Industries.
On Slide 22 you can see where we have begun assembly of the shield building panels.
Once joined and welded together panel sections will be placed starting at elevation 100.
On Slide 23 you'll see the new nuclear CapEx actual and projected over the life of the construction.
This chart reflects our company's current actual and estimated new nuclear CapEx during the years 2008 to 2020; reflecting petition filed March 12 with the Public Service Commission.
As you can see the next several years are the peak nuclear construction period.
The green line represents the related actual and projected customer rate increases under the BLRA and is associated with the right hand axis.
Please now turn to slide 24.
We have two BLRA filings coming up in May.
In mid May we will file our quarterly status update with the Public Service Commission.
And as mentioned earlier on May 29 we will make our annual request for revised rates under the BLRA.
Finally please turn to slide 25 to briefly discuss our solar initiative in South Carolina.
Our customers and other South Carolina stakeholders have expressed a desire for solar energy and we've been looking for ways to economically integrate additional solar into our generation portfolio.
As a part of the Distributed Energy Resource Program which was filed with the Public Service Commission in February SCE&amp;G plans to add approximately 95 megawatts of renewable energy by the end of 2020.
In 2015 we plan to install approximately 10 megawatts of solar generation to our system.
As you can see from the slide the first two solar farms will be a 3.8-megawatt solar farm in Cayce South Carolina adjacent to our corporate headquarters and a 500-kilowatt solar farm that will be constructed in North Charleston South Carolina.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We will now be glad to respond to any questions you might have.
[Operator Instruction] The first question comes from Travis Miller of Morningstar.
Good afternoon thank you.
I'm going back to the previous CapEx estimate for the 2015 2017 from the previous quarter.
Looks like the delta there is about a $250 million or so on the new nuclear? Right.
Is that part of that $698 million such that the balance of the $698 million would be post 2017? Am I getting that timing right there? That's correct.
Okay.
And then how much cash did you get from the CGT and SCI sales that could go into offsetting that equity? It was a little over $425 million Travis.
And now like you said you plan to use as an equity investment to fund the CapEx? Right over time.
It will take us the next couple of years to fully utilize that through displacing otherwise planned equity.
The next question comes from Michael Weinstein of UBS.
Just wondering if you could give us any update or color on how the negotiations are going with the Consortium? Michael this is Steve.
I think the only color I can put around it is they are ongoing.
The positive aspects are they haven't completely broken down yet.
And we always would reserve the right or the opportunity for other dispute resolutions down the road whether that be arbitration or litigation.
But as of right now we're still in the discussion phase with the Consortium.
Obviously arranging schedules with our executives has been challenging but we haven't given up on the negotiation discussions.
And we feel that there's an opportunity for a settlement in the future.
If there is no settlement what is the other alternative? Is it litigation? The contract has in it a variety of dispute resolution provisions.
Arbitration is one of those but litigation would be the ultimate one.
Okay.
I was wondering if you could go over a little bit more about your strategic plan for solar.
How much rate base potential is there going forward? Are there new initiatives new legislative initiatives that might expand that even further? Are you going to be going outside of the state at all expand beyond your borders? Michael this is Steve again.
As of right now the legislation in South Carolina is through Act 236 and that will be restricted to the state.
Our current plans do not take us outside of the state borders.
As of right now what we're looking at is -- it works out to be like 2% of peak load and so that works out to somewhere in the 50-megawatt range of industrial-scale solar.
And roughly 50 megawatts of nonindustrial or residential commercial scale solar.
So that's what our goals are from between now and about 2020.
What we've outlined here are the first of the projects that we have planned.
Now whether we own those up front or not will be a question and right now we're not thinking that we will own those necessarily up front.
Other entities can take advantage of things like tax credits that we are not able to take advantage of.
I think eventually we will probably own them.
We also have about 300 or so customers on our system right now with solar all relatively small commercial and residential scale in addition to about a 2.3-megawatt facility we have down at Boeing.
Now we do anticipate that we'll end up with somewhere in the range of 5 000 commercial and residential customers after 2020 through this state-approved program.
And when you say that eventually you think you'll own them you mean after the five-year period after the ITC? Yes I think so.
We'll have to see how the tax legislation plays out but that's our current thinking anyway.
The next question comes from Jim von Riesemann from Mizuho.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon guys.
Hello Jim.
How are you? Great how are you? I'm okay.
I've got three questions if you don't mind so one question three parts.
First one is your trailing 12-month earnings on a weather-normalized basis of $3.62.
How do you get to the midpoint of your range of $3.60 to $3.70 so you guys hit your $3.70 target? Yes $3.60 to $3.80 with a $3.70 target right.
So the way we get there is through customer growth and through the growth in rate base which is driving the BLRA increases.
So those are the two main contributors.
Can you explain it's okay thank you.
Second question is can you explain why the nuclear rate base has stayed flat for the last three consecutive quarters at $2.667 billion? I'm looking at your pie chart on page 8.
No I can't off the cuff Jim.
That doesn't sound rational.
I'll have to check on that and follow-up.
Okay.
And then my last question is with this petition that you're supposed to put in later this month and at the end of the month will you ask specifically for the special petition and then normal the BLRA filing to be consolidated? Or is that something that the regulators will have to do? And part B of that question is that a function of the status in negotiations? Jim this is Steve.
The two proceedings before the Commission will stay separate.
Remember that what we file for in May is a trailing 12-month so it's what we've actually spent and really does not have anything to do with what we're proposing going forward.
In large measure what we're asking for with the update petition and again we expect a hearing in the July time frame and an order in the September time frame will be on forward-looking.
So that's money we haven't yet spent.
But it's our best projection to date as to what we will end up spending on the project.
So those two will stay distinct and separate.
Okay.
And then I guess the last question is related to PTCs and what you might think might happen with nuclear PTCs.
I know you're coming up against the time clock and I noticed today that DTE press release was a little bit skittish but they're putting in for a new nuclear plant.
Is that part of the PTCs network? Would that take away from the PTCs that you guys have applied for? I think DTE applied for a combined operating license for another nuclear facility some time ago.
And I think the press release today is around successful culmination of that process for them.
They will not qualify for production tax credits because you had to have your license issued by a date certain.
We're past that date certain so that will not change the production tax credit basis for us.
We believe that I think it was outlined in our filings that we will actually be qualifying for more production tax credits than we had originally anticipated in our original filing.
So that's a positive aspect.
We fully anticipate that the Consortium will be able to bring the plants in by June of 2019 and June of 2020 for the second unit.
So the production tax credits you qualify for them by having the plan in service before the end of 2020.
So while I'm not satisfied with only having about six months' margin we do believe that there are some opportunities particularly on that trailing unit or Unit 3 for us to bring that in a little bit earlier.
The next question comes from Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys congrats on a good quarter.
A couple of nuts and bolts questions.
Jimmy can you give a little more clarity about what happened year over year in O&amp;M? Was it at one of the utilities? Or was it just losing the O&amp;M related to the businesses you sold? Yes well there's a little fluctuation in all of the business.
There have been pay increases earlier in the year for the employee base across all of the businesses et cetera some minor inflationary increases with outside vendors.
But the most significant change would be the two months of CGT O&amp;M not being in there.
That's the most significant one.
Got it.
And also when you look at O&amp;M for the year relative to last year at both SCE&amp;G and PSCNC what are you expecting in terms of growth or kind of growth rates? If you look at it on the face of the financials with the GAAP O&amp;M as reported last year to include the two businesses we've sold we would expect them to be down for the face of the financials of 2015 compared to 2014 in the 1% to 2% range because you don't have the O&amp;M for those two businesses for the majority of 2015.
If you strip those out from the prior year related to those two small businesses then we would expect it to be up maybe 1% something like that but fairly close to flat.
Apples to apples.
Got it.
So traditional utility O&amp;M flat to up 1%? Yes that's our expectation.
Understood.
Last question just real quick.
When do you think -- I know you're trying to avoid it -- when do you think you'll have to come in on either the SCE&amp;G gas or electric side? Maybe looking more a little bit at the gas side given the earned ROE there is a little lower than what it is on the electric? On the electric side our strategy continues to be to do everything we can possibly do to stay out of a base rate increase other than the BLRA increases each year during these peak nuclear construction years.
So that hasn't changed and we've defined our internal goal of staying above a 9% return to be able to achieve that.
On the gas side we've got the Rate Stabilization Act in South Carolina which measures it each year so at the end of the heating season at the end of the first quarter.
And of course the numbers we disclosed there for the gas business were at 12/31.
But once they settle out that and make the pro forma adjustments the Office of Regulatory Staff will review it.
And if it's more than 50 basis points either way off of the 10.25% allowed return there will be a recommendation to the Public Service Commission that rates be adjusted.
For example last year we were above the allowed return by more than 50 basis points so there was a small rate decrease of ballpark $3 million.
And that same measurement will happen this year.
Got it.
One other item real quick.
SCANA Energy.
Anything unusual on the positive side in the quarter? Or is this more of a return to normal and last year was a bit of abnormal? Well the main difference is in 2014 we worked very hard to work on the costs of our storage gas that's there.
With the weather that had been there the last few years and the embedded price of that we weren't able to use a lot of that storage to fully respond to the current market price.
And we were able to move through a lot of that higher-cost gas in 2014.
That's put us in a better position to use that storage to be able to compete in 2015.
So we're in a much better position now.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from Mitchell Moss of Lord Abbett.
Hey guys.
I just wanted to get your views on the importance of being investment-grade at all three rating agencies for your Holding Company for SCANA Hold Co.
And particularly having an investment grade rating at Moody's.
Well it's critically important at the Operating Company where we expect to issue a substantial amount of debt the next few years.
Most of the organizations have a linking methodology so that they are going to ratchet down the HoldCo slightly less.
It's clear that especially with the extended period of construction for the new nuclear plants that it's going to be difficult on some of the metrics to maintain some of the current ratings at the Operating Companies.
And that's likely going to put more pressure on those.
If those were to change then by methodology it's probable that the HoldCo ratings could change as well.
So it's possible those could slip slightly below investment-grade at the HoldCo but we expect that the OpCo would be able to maintain the investment-grade ratings.
So in other words you don't see any need to be investment-grade at the Holding Company? I wouldn't say we don't see any need to.
It's a matter of juggling everything we have to juggle and running the Operating Company at reasonable equity levels that the regulators will endorse.
There's only so much we can do with that.
The real strain on the metrics is the longer -- although the BLRA is a very effective mechanism all it allows us to do is to recover the financing costs during the construction period.
We're not recovering the actual construction cost of the plants until they start depreciation.
That's when we get the recovery of the actual cost of the plants.
So the longer that period is drawn out with increased cost of the plants it's going to put more pressure on the cash flow ratio.
So I wouldn't say we don't think it's important.
It just may be very very difficult to do with juggling all of the factors we have to juggle.
So in other words when Moody's has discussed that FFO to debt needs to improve above 13% and RCF needs to improve above 8% or 9% you don't see that likely happening over the next two years based on how the BLRA recoveries are designed.
Is that effectively what you're saying? It's going to be a challenge that's fair.
The next question comes from Andy Levi from Avon Capital Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
I actually wasn't going to ask a question but just interesting the last question so back to the question for me.
Just to understand because SCANA Corp's BBB.
So obviously you wouldn't defend that BBB rating is that what you're saying if need be? I don't understand what.
I don't mean defend it verbally I mean defend it financially.
So if the BBB rating at SCANA Corp was in jeopardy you wouldn't issue equity or come up with some equity to defend that BBB? We would have to look at the situation as we get there.
But in the short run here we've strengthened the balance sheet a great deal in one quarter with the $400 million-plus of cash we brought in.
So it's significantly stronger today than it was 90 days ago.
What we've got to do is move through the project see how these negotiations go see what the schedule looks like and respond dynamically during the situation.
But I can't say that in every case we would issue additional equity just to keep that bond rating at investment-grade at the HoldCo.
Okay.
And just to understand because I guess I had a different impression.
Maybe I'm just misinterpreting but the sale of the pipe was that to defend the rating? Or was that done because it made the most economic sense? Or a combination of the two? It was actually done for strategic focus on our retail businesses.
The by-product was what I was mentioning earlier in the short run here has strengthened the balance sheet substantially.
But it was really about focusing on retail business which is core at what we do.
So everything that's left in the portfolio is about being focused on those retail businesses in these three states.
Okay I'll discuss it with you next time I meet with you.
Thank you very much.
The next question comes from Tim Winter of Gabelli &amp; Company.
please go ahead.
Good afternoon guys.
I was wondering if you could update us on the development of the Sanmen units over in China.
What the target completion dates are there and if there's any issues that we should be aware of as it relates to summer.
Tim this is Steve again.
I can only give you what our understanding is of the schedule at Sanmen.
I can't speak for Sanmen either the utility the construction company or even Westinghouse.
But our understanding is that they have made good progress the plant physically looks like a complete plant.
They would plan to go into production or be operational at the end of 2016.
So they continue to be about two and a half years ahead of us and they are making good progress.
The latest holdups for them the reactor coolant pumps are probably two-thirds to three-quarters of the way through an extended engineering and endurance run with no problems noted to date.
So with that behind them that should allow them to get into high drilling the primary side or the reactor cooling system side which they hope to get to late this year.
But I believe they've made very good progress there.
I know they've been into flushing the secondary side of the plant or the turbine building side.
I think they've started the flush of the primary side of the plant or the reactor side.
We're heartened by good progress there.
And our team will be making another trip to China I guess in next week.
So we'll be visiting China next week with a team that includes some members of SCE&amp;G and Santee Cooper.
The next question comes from Dan Jenkins of the State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
Please go ahead.
I just wanted to make sure that I understand correctly.
I'm looking at your Exhibit 1 that you filed in March related to the construction schedule at the nuclear plant along with your slide 16.
Just want to make sure I understand kind of the order here.
So CA04 is already set right? And then is the next thing going to be CA03 followed by CA01 and CA02? Am I looking at that properly? We have set CA04.
We've also set CA05.
And then not inside of the containment vessel itself but just outside forming most of the auxiliary building is a module called CA20 which we set.
So the CA01 is actually being fabricated.
The weld-out is finished to the point where we could lift it.
So we're just waiting for some concrete to be prepped and poured and cured inside of that containment vessel to set CA01.
And then after 01 I think it's 02.
So 03 is actually one of the later ones to set.
So CA01 CA02 and then CA03? Right 04 and 05 are already set.
Right.
And then are those critical paths so that 02 can't go in until after 01 has been set? And 03 can't go in until after 01 and 02? Is that true or not? Yes Dan there is a definite sequence to it and 01 has to be next.
Okay.
One is also constraining the lift of the second containment vessel ring section just because of the height of that module.
Okay that's the only question I had thank you.
The next question comes from David Paz from Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
A question is the settlement with the ORS and other parties in your pending new nuclear petition possible absent a resolution with the Consortium on the costs and schedule? Dave I think we're certainly going to pursue that option because right now we don't know when the negotiations might be concluded with the Consortium.
We are going to pursue that with the Office of Regulatory Staff and other interveners to be settled as in enter into a settlement agreement prior to the conclusion of the negotiations.
Now if the negotiations take a very positive turn and they're concluded obviously that will impact how we proceed.
But as of right now we're proceeding assuming that we will not have a settlement of the negotiations.
And we'll be pursuing a settlement agreement with the Office of Regulatory Staff.
[Operator Instructions] We have a follow-up from Jim von Riesemann from Mizuho.
Hi there again sorry about this.
I'm just listening to the call.
I'm getting a little confused maybe you can help me out.
So what's more important for SCE&amp;G is my question.
Is it fixing the variable component cost component of the contract? Or is it having the plants come online ahead of the construction timeline that the Consortium has proposed? Jim I'm not sure that I would say either is necessarily more important than the other.
We believe that getting the costs right is very important but it's also critical to us to have the plants come online no later than when the Consortium says they can deliver them to us which from our perspective is already late.
So I don't know that I would say one is necessarily more important than the other.
Okay I'll follow-up off-line with you thank you.
Thanks.
Jim let me follow-up on your earlier question that I did not know the answer to at the time about why the $2.667 billion on the chart number eight hasn't changed.
That chart reflects the amount of NND CapEx that's included in rates in cash rates.
So as we don't get new rates except once a year the additional CWIP that's been incurred since the middle of 2014 that's earning AFUDC is not included in that chart.
That's right I should have known that.
Sorry for asking that question.
I should have known too sorry.
We have a follow-up from Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Hey guys.
Heard all of the commentary regarding the Holding Company credit rating.
Just want to make sure and I may have missed this.
Have you guys either gotten commentary from the rating agencies but been put on some kind of watch? Have they made any proactive steps that would result in a downward change to the rating? And can you talk about if any covenant issues that would create or any cross entity-related issues something like that would create? Or even if it would have a material impact on your cost to borrow it? Yes Michael at the HoldCo we've had negative outlook with S&amp;P and Fitch at BBB and BBB+.
So there's room for a notch or two respectively in both of those and still remain investment-grade obviously.
And we're currently stable at Moody's.
The only thing I was mentioning is that some of them and frankly I don't remember which one right now have -- and maybe most all of them even -- have these methodologies so that if the OpCo moves the HoldCo has to move by methodology by definition.
We don't have anything other than that.
I think they're all watching the outcome for the HoldCo just like they are on the OpCo of this very very important filing before the PSC and BLRA update.
So I think that is the key issue.
Not aware of any covenant issue or anything like that would cause any additional concerns.
But what about cost to borrow? Meaning how do you think about what it does to either short-term debt or borrowing costs in general? You've got a lot of capital to spend.
You've got a lot of debt coming to help fund that capital.
We do and this whole conversation has been about the HoldCo debt.
We don't have any additional new debt that we plan to issue at the HoldCo.
I think there's maybe $500 million that would need to be refinanced at some point out 2019 2020.
That's well beyond the critical period where these ratios are going to be stressed.
So we don't expect any incremental impact on borrowing costs at the HoldCo because frankly we don't plan to do anything for the next four to five years there.
Got it.
Thank you Jimmy much appreciated.
You're welcome.
I appreciate the clarifying question.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Jimmy Addison Executive Vice President and CFO for any closing remarks.
Thank you Andrew.
The first quarter of 2015 has certainly been an eventful one from the successful closings of the sales of the two subsidiaries to the petition filed with the PSC seeking approval of schedule and cost changes to our new nuclear project.
We're very pleased with the results for the quarter and we look forward to another successful year.
We thank you all for joining us today and for your interest in SCANA.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Thursday July 30 2015.
Anyone who does not consent to the taping may drop off the line.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Susan Wright Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Thank you and welcome to our analyst call.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the second quarter of 2015.
Joining us on the call today are Jimmy Addison SCANA’s Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer of SCE&amp;G.
During the call Jimmy will provide an overview of our financial results and related matters and Steve will provide an update on our new nuclear project.
After our comments we will respond to your questions.
The slides and the earnings release referenced to in this call are available at scana.com.
Additionally we post information related to our new nuclear project and other investor information directly to our website at scana.com.
On SCANA’s homepage there is a yellow box containing links to the new nuclear development and Other Investor Information sections of the website.
It is possible that some of the information that we will be posting from time-to-time may be deemed material information but has not otherwise become public.
You can sign up for e-mail alerts under the Investor Relations section of scana.com to notify you when there is a new posting in the nuclear development and/or Other Investor Information sections of the website.
Finally before I turn the call over to Jimmy I would like to remind you that certain statements that may be made during today’s call are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as shown on slide two.
The company does not recognize an obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Additionally we may disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation.
The required Reg G information can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website under Webcasts and Presentations.
I’ll now turn the call over to Jimmy.
Thanks Susan and thank you all for joining us today.
I will begin our earnings discussion on slide three.
GAAP earnings in the second quarter of 2015 were $0.69 per share compared to $0.68 per share in the same quarter of 2014.
The improved results in the second quarter are mainly attributable to higher electric margins due primarily to a Base Load Review Act rate increase and customers growth.
These were partially offset by lower gas margins primarily due to lost gas margins of $0.06 per share resulting from the sale of CGT and expected increases in CapEx related items including interest and share dilution.
Note that even though weather had no impact on earnings quarter-over-quarter abnormal weather increased electric margins by $0.06 per share in the second quarter of both 2014 and 2015.
Please turn to slide four.
Earnings per share for the six months ended June 30 2015 were $3.49 per share versus $2.05 in 2014.
The improved results are mainly attributable to the net of tax gains from the sales of CGT and SCI and higher electric margins due primarily to Base Load Review Act rate increase and customer growth.
Also O&amp;M presented a favorable variance which is primarily attributable to CGT only operating as part of the SCANA family for one month.
These were partially offset by lower electric margins due to weather in the first quarter lower gas margins primarily attributable to $0.09 per share from the sale of CGT and expected increases in CapEx related items including depreciation interest property taxes and share dilution.
Although electric margins reflected a negative $0.05 per share due to weather year-over-year abnormal weather increased electric margins by $0.11 per share year-to-date 2015 compared to $0.16 per share in 2014.
Slide five shows earnings on a GAAP adjusted weather-normalized basis.
Earnings in the second quarter of 2015 were $0.63 per share compared to $0.62 per share in the same quarter of 2014.
Year-to-date June earnings were $1.97 per share in 2015 compared to $1.89 per share from the prior year.
As a reminder GAAP adjusted weather-normalized EPS excludes the impact of abnormal weather on electric margins and the net of tax gains on the sales of CGT and SCI from the first quarter of 2015.
Now on slide six I would like to briefly review results for our principal lines of business.
On a GAAP basis South Carolina Electric &amp; Gas Company’s second quarter 2015 earnings were up $0.07 compared to the same period of 2014.
Increases in earnings were due primarily to the continued recovery of financing costs through the BLRA and customer growth.
These items were offset by increases in expenses related to our capital program including interest expense property taxes depreciation and share dilution.
Year-to-date earnings were also higher by $0.07 due primarily to the same drivers.
PSNC Energy’s earnings for the second quarter of 2015 decreased $0.01 per share over the second quarter of 2014 primarily due to increased O&amp;M and depreciation.
For the six-month period ended June 30 earnings were also down $0.01 per share.
SCANA Energy a retail natural gas marketing business in Georgia showed a decrease in second quarter earnings of $0.02 per share in 2015 over last year.
This was primarily attributable to lower margins resulting from lower residential volumes during the month of April which was normal [ph] than in 2014.
Year-to-date earnings were $0.15 per share compared to $0.13 per share in the prior year.
Additionally I am pleased to report that SCANA Energy has been approved to serve as the regulated provider for the State of Georgia through August 2017.
SCANA Energy has served as a regulated provider since the program’s inception in 2002.
On a GAAP basis SCANA’s corporate and other businesses reported a loss of $0.04 per share in the second quarter of 2015 compared to a loss of $0.01 per share in the prior year.
This is mainly attributable to foregone earnings contributions from the city areas that were sold during the first quarter of this year.
For the six-month period these businesses reported earnings per share of $1.44 in 2015 compared to $0.08 in 2014.
Excluding the net of tax gains on the sales of CGT and SCI on $1.41 per share GAAP adjusted EPS was down $0.05 from the prior year.
I would now to touch on economic trends in our service territory on slide seven.
So far in 2015 companies have announced plans to invest approximately $750 million with the expectation of creating over 1 800 jobs in our Carolinas territories.
This growth reinforces that the Carolinas continue to be seen as a favorable business environment.
At the bottom of the slide you can see the national unemployment rate along with the rates for the three states where SCANA has a presence and the SCE&amp;G electric territory.
South Carolinas unemployment rate is now at 6.6% and the rate in SCE&amp;G’s electric territory is estimated at 6.1%.
Approximately 60 000 more South Carolinians are working today than a year ago.
Slide eight presents customer growth and electric sales statistics.
On the top half of the slide is the customer growth rates for each of our regulated businesses.
We continue to see accelerating customer growth in our businesses and in the region.
SCE&amp;G’s electric business added customers at a year-over-rate of 1.6%.
Our regulated gas businesses in North and South Carolina added customers at 2.7% and 3% respectively.
This is the first time any of our businesses have hit 3% growth since 2008.
The bottom table outlines our actual and weather-normalized kilowatt hour sales for the 12 months ended June 30 2015.
Overall weather-normalized total retail sales were up 1.1% on a 12-month ended basis.
We continue to see slightly lower weather normalized consumption at the residential level reflecting anticipated energy efficiencies which is offset by increases in industrial demand.
The residential construction decline has been slightly more moderate than we anticipated but we expect the peak summer months to continue to trend.
Now please turn to slide nine which recaps our regulatory rate base and returns.
The pie chart on the left presents the components of our regulated rate base of approximately $9 billion.
As denoted in the two shades of blue approximately 85% of this rate base is related to the electric business.
In the block on the right you will see that SCE&amp;G’s base electric business in which we’re allowed 10.25% return on equity.
The earned return for the 12 months ended June 30 in the base electric business is approximately 9.5% meeting our stated goal of earning a return of 9% or higher to prevent the need for non BLRA related base rate increases during the peak nuclear construction years.
We continue to be pleased with the execution of our strategy.
Continuing down the page on our new nuclear business we’re allowed an 11% return on equity.
I wanted to briefly mention that under the terms of our recently announced settlement agreement if approved by the Public Service Commission of South Carolina the allowed ROE for the new nuclear business will drop to 10.5% for all prospective requests for revised rates under the BLRA beginning in 2016.
We have had net incremental CWIP over the last year of approximately $547 million and as Steve will discuss shortly we filed our 2015 request for revised rates back in May.
Our regulated gas businesses in the Carolinas continued to perform well and we are allowed a return of equity of 10.6% and 10.25% in the North Carolina and South Carolina respectively and we continue to operate these businesses within a reasonable range of those returns.
Slide 10 presents our CapEx forecast.
This forecast reflects new nuclear spending as reflected in the recently filed annual request for revised rates with the public service commission of South Carolina in May.
At the bottom of the slide we recap the estimated new nuclear CWIP from July 1 through June 30 to correspond to the periods on which the BLRA rate increases are historically calculated.
Now please turn to slide 11 to review our estimated financing plans through 2017.
This plan is the same as was presented last quarter.
On May 19th of this year SCE&amp;G issued $500 million of 50-year bonds at 5.1%.
Also in January we issued approximately $14 million in equity through our 401-(k) and DRIP plans before turning off the plans to new shares.
By acquiring shares on the open market to satisfy the need of these plans we can further utilize the cash proceeds and the sales of CGT and SCI.
We do not anticipate the need for further equity issuances until 2017.
While these are our best estimates on incremental debt and equity issuances it is unlikely that these issuances will occur exactly as presented as they are subject to changes and funding needs for planned project expenses.
And we continue to adjust the financing to match the related CapEx on a 50-50 debt and equity basis.
Finally on slide 12 we are reaffirming our GAAP adjusted weather-normalized earnings guidance of $3.60 to $3.80 per share along with our internal target of $3.70 per share.
Our long-term GAAP adjusted weather-normalized average annual growth guidance remains unchanged as we plan to deliver 3% to 6% earnings growth over the next three to five years using a base of 2014’s GAAP adjusted weather-normalized EPS of $3.58.
As a reminder our projected effective tax rate for 2015 exclusive of the taxes on the gains on the sales of those subsidiaries remains approximately 31%.
I’ll now turn the call over to Steve to provide an update on our nuclear project.
Thanks Jimmy.
Please turn to slide 13.
I would like to begin by again touching base on the petition that SCE&amp;G filed with the Public Service Commission of South Carolina on March 12 this year that is seeking approval to update the construction milestone schedule as well as the capital cost schedule for the two new nuclear units.
The construction schedule without consideration of all mitigating strategies includes a substantial completion date of June of 2019 for Unit 2 and June of 2020 for Unit 3.
The new capital cost schedule includes incremental capital costs that total $698 million of which $539 million are associated with the delay and other contested costs.
Negotiations continue with the Consortium and neither SCE&amp;G nor Santee Cooper has accepted responsibility for any contested and/or delay-associated costs.
Further we cannot predict when these negotiations will be resolved.
Our hearing with the Public Service Commission took place last week on July 21st and 22nd.
The Sierra Club was the only active intervener in the hearing and SCE&amp;G and the Office of Regulatory Staff or ORS were the only parties that presented witness testimony.
The ORS one of the parties who entered into a settlement agreement with SCE&amp;G also presented the terms of the agreement at the hearing.
A decision by the PSC will come no later than September the 12th.
We are hopeful that PSC will approve the settlement agreement we entered into with ORS and South Carolina Energy Users Committee related to the aforementioned petition.
This settlement agreement signifies that no contested issues exist among settlement parties and supports the approval of the revised construction and capital cost schedules.
As Jimmy has already mentioned the settlement parties also agree to revise the allowed return on equity to 10.5% from 11% for calculating prospective revised rates sought under the BLRA on or after January 1 of 2016.
I’d now like to discuss some of the activities at the new nuclear construction site.
Slide 14 presents an aerial photo of the site from March.
This photo gives you a view of the layout of the site.
And I’ve labeled both Units 2 and 3 as well as many other areas that make up the construction table top.
On slide 15 you can see an aerial photo come in different perspective.
This angle shows the couple of the parking lots for the construction staff of the new units.
And currently there are approximately 3 500 workers at the site.
I would like to mention also that we’re having great success of having the permanent staff for the new units.
We’ve already hired almost 600 of the anticipated 800 full-time positions that will be needed when the units are on line.
On slide 16 you can see a picture of the Unit 2 Nuclear Island.
In this picture you can see Module CA20 along with containment vessel ring 1 which has been placed on the lower bowl.
We continue to make progress with the fabrication and placement containment vessel structural modules.
Slide 17 presents a schematic view of the five large structural modules that are located inside of the containment vessel.
This exploded view of CA01 through 05 gives you a better feel of how they fit spatially inside that containment vessel.
Slide 18 shows the lift and placement of the Unit 2 module CA01 which took place on July 23rd.
The 2.4 million pound CA01 houses the steam generators and the pressurizer and forms a refueling canal inside of the containment vessel.
This module is the heaviest lift that will occur during the nuclear construction project.
On the top left you can see one of the module assembly building or MAB walls was removed in order to move the module outside for rigging to heavy lift area.
CA01 was then lifted and placed into the Unit 2 containment vessel.
Slide 19 shows the picture of CA02 which will be the next structural module placed in the Unit 2 containment vessel.
All five sub-modules have been assembled in the MAB and CA02 is now structurally complete.
Module CA02 is a wall section that forms part of the in-containment refueling water storage tank.
Fabrication is nearing completion and the containment vessel rings for both units.
On slide 20 you can see the fabrication as the Unit 2 containment vessel top head.
Once all three containment vessels rings have been placed for Unit 2 this closure head will be placed on top to seal the containment vessel.
Slide 21 shows a picture of the Unit 3 Nuclear Island.
The containment vessel lower bowl has been placed and the auxiliary building walls continue to take form.
Slide 22 shows the June 29th lift and placement of the Unit 3 Module CA04 into the containment vessel lower bowl.
Module CA04 is a reactive vessel cavity that will house the reactor.
Please turn to slide 23.
On day prior the placement of CA04 the Unit 3 reactive vessel was received on site.
The Unit 3 reactive vessel arrived in the Port of Charleston on June 26 and was transported over the next two days via rail on a specially designed railcar due to the excessive weight of the component.
Once the Unit 3 CA04 is fully encased in concrete this reactor vessel which houses the fuel assemblies will be lowered into it and mounted on top.
Slide 24 shows the placement of the first Unit 2 shield building panels.
Six of the panels each weighing approximately 33 000 pounds and spanning 40-feet were lifted and placed outside of the containment vessel earlier this month.
As the shield building panels are placed and welded together concrete will be poured inside of the panels to create a shield building.
On slide 25 you will see the new nuclear CapEx actual and projected over the life of construction.
This chart reflects our company’s current actual and estimated new nuclear CapEx during the years 2008 to 2020.
It’s reflected in the annual requests for revised rates with the Public Service Commission.
As you can see this year and the next several years are the peak nuclear construction periods.
The green line represents the related actual and projected customer rate increases under the BLRA and is associated with the right hand access.
Please now turn to slide 26.
As you can see we’ve filed our BLRA quarterly status update for the first quarter of 2015 in May as well as our annual request for revised rates under the BLRA.
The Office of Regulatory Staff has completed their review of our request and is recommending to the Commission a $64.5 million revenue increase or a rate increase of about 2.6%.
We concur with their recommendation and anticipate the requested increase in rates effective for bills rendered on or after October 30th.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We’ll now be glad to respond to any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Travis Miller at Morningstar.
I was wondering if you could give a lot of more around your thinking on that settlement why come to settlement why not go to the hearing some thoughts around the terms of settlement general thinking on that.
Hello? So in the State we are encouraged… You heard my question.
Okay.
I heard the question I got the question.
So we’re encouraged entering into settlement agreements.
The Office of Regulatory Staff is also encouraged and likes to promote settlement agreements.
And so we always try to present a settlement agreement to the Commission whenever we go in for any case.
Now we’re not always completely successful.
And in this case the Office of Regulatory Staff ourselves and one of the interveners which is the Energy Users Committee entered into that settlement agreement.
There were a couple of interveners who did not sign on to the settlement agreement the Sierra Club which actively participated and then there was one other entity that did not actively participate in the hearing which is not unusual.
There are a lot of people that sign on as interveners just to get information; they don’t really participate in the process.
So from our perspective it was very positive that we entered into the agreement and we only had one intervener against us in the hearing process.
I think what the interveners got out of it was that they are concerned with rates and by lowering the ROE; they had a small reduction in rates over the term of the construction process.
And it just made it a much more positive hearing process than we had in the past.
Okay.
What do you estimate that rate impact or for you guys an earnings impact from that 50 basis points? Yes we are looking at about a $15 million reduction over about a five-year period.
So that’s the cumulative rough $15 million.
Okay.
And apply only to the rate base effectively that starts from 2016 on? Correct correct that’s prospective.
Okay.
And what if you were to get that money back that contested money do you then get the 50 basis points back or would there be any kind of change there? No the agreement is the agreement.
If we were to -- I think what you’re talking about is if any of the contested amounts we come to some kind of a settlement and/or a lawsuit and were get… Yes.
…to get a refund of some description on some of those costs we would credit those costs back to customers but it would not impact the settlement agreement.
Our next question comes from Stephen Byrd at Morgan Stanley.
I just had one question on new nuclear and just curious your take on in China at the Sanmen project how that project is going lessons learned sort of general timeframe as you understand from that and just trying to think about that in the context of sort of paving the way for the U.S.? We go to China relatively frequently.
We’ve had folks there within the last two months.
So we would like to try to gauge what’s going on the China project.
They have been and continue to be about two and half years ahead of us.
Now some of their issues are different than our issues.
They actually get some issues resolved for us.
I would say that my impression now is that critical path for them really is the reactor coolant pumps getting those installed and getting to their primary side hydros our functional testing.
So they are pushing on those reactor coolant pumps means that they will not be an issue for us.
So they will be off our critical path.
Our best estimate of when they will start up is probably sometime late 2016.
So again they continue to be about two and half years ahead of us.
And just broadly with Westinghouse and just watching what some of the issues with Mitsubishi internationally.
Any further color you can provide in terms of -- it sounds like the issues that have occurred on cost accounting [ph] they’ve been really more international not really U.S.
based.
But any additional color that you can add based on your conversations? The only thing that we could add and I am assuming you’re talking about the Toshiba issues are that we are not aware that our project is involved in any of the cost reporting improprieties.
I know that the report that was just recently translated from Japanese to English indicates that there was a project; I think they call it Project G so they don’t actually identify it but it is a Westinghouse project.
We don’t believe that we have that Westinghouse project.
And I know that they had irregularities one quarter to the next but it did point that over the year things equaled out.
So we don’t anticipate any adverse actions to our project based on anything that’s going on at Toshiba.
Sorry Toshiba not Mitsubishi.
And Project G; was that indicated to be an American project or it was unclear in terms of how it was disclosed? It did not indicate whether it was a U.S.
project or where it was just said Project G.
But it sounds like from your perspective no issues there.
That’s all I had.
Thank you very much.
Our next question is from Jim von Riesemann at Mizuho Securities.
Hey questions for you if bonus depreciation goes through what’s the cash flow impact to you guys? It’s by ballpark 75 million a year.
Okay.
Would that help albeit the need to have to do any equity in 2017 either under the old plan or the new special petition? Yes.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Michael Lapides at Goldman Sachs.
I just wanted to check in the BLRA rate increase for November of this year about $64.5 million; I recall a higher number the $69 million or so.
Was the adjustment just due to the change in ROE or were there other changes as well? No nothing to do with the ROE.
So the ROE change only impacts revised rate fillings in 2016 and forward not pretending one.
The difference is that we make our following in May but it’s as of the end of June so we have to project the spending as of the end of June; and then the ORS when they do their work they true it up to the actual expenditure.
So it’s simply just the difference in what we projected versus the actual expenditures.
And did expenditures through the middle of the year come in lighter than what you would have forecast and do you expect that to be made up on the second half of the year or does that get pushed out to some future year? Yes the first part of your question Michael is slightly lighter than we had forecast but it’s really not possible to answer the second part of that; it’s really out of our control; it’s consortium related so don’t know if it will all be caught up in the second half of the year or trickle over.
So there is a shot and you will find out in the course in coming months or so that some of the 2015 CapEx may actually get moved out to later years? Yes.
It could and that’s obviously what’s happened in the past but at some point the points are going to be finished and it’s got to catch up right? So I just can’t tell you exactly what bucket that will fall in.
Totally different the corporate and other costs in the quarter that’s -- I think it was $0.04.
Is that kind of a good run rate to think about and is that all just the holding company debt the 800 million or so kind of the after tax interest on that or there something else that’s in that? No.
It’s mostly the holdco debt.
And I’m not sure if the classification you’ve got has the other subsidiaries broken out or not the smaller ones.
But if they are other -- let me see which ones are broken out there.
Yes so we have like the SCANA Energy marketing businesses grouped in that as well so there is some volatility between -- some cyclical nature to that business too.
So you can’t really take one straight run rate so just the debt would be of the holdco would be probably in the ballpark of $0.08 or so negative per year.
I’m just looking at slide six.
So you’ve got a separate line for corporate and other.
Yes.
And so that was $0.04 in the quarter.
Right.
But what I’m saying is in that the Georgia business is in the line above but the SCANA Energy marketing to the industrial customers is grouped in that line with corporate and other and there is some cyclical nature to that piece of the business.
So it’s not a flat $0.04 times four.
The debt carry itself is probably more than $0.08 range per year.
[Operator Instructions] We have a follow-up question from Julien Dumoulin-Smith at UBS.
Hi guys.
It’s Mike Weinstein actually.
Hello Mike.
A quick question on solar.
I know you guys have a plan to build about 95 megawatts by 2020 under Act 236.
I’m just wondering if you can give us an update on that and where you think solar in the states going even beyond that act? We think that we are going to be on target for the build out under that Act 236 which is going to call for roughly 45ish megawatts of utility-scale solar and then another 45ish megawatts of non-utility-scale solar.
So that’s really aimed at rooftop or community solar.
So the process is continuing.
We’ve had a number of filings with our State Public Service Commission relative to distributor to energy resources and net metering and we’ve gotten some orders out; we expect another one the process I think it’s in -- we expect it in the July or August.
So it’s moving.
We are continuing with our plans.
We’ve got two solar utility scale solar that we intend to construct hopefully we will make some good ground before the end of the year one of them here at our corporate campus on the order of 4 megawatts and then we got about 500-kilowatt system going to going down near the Charleston area.
We do have a number of requests for interconnection to our system from solar generators.
So I would imagine that we will far exceed the 90 megawatts by 2020 but just won’t fall under that Act 236.
Our next question comes from Dan Jenkins State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
I had a question on page eight where you talk about the sales and customer growth in particular on the industrial sales.
It looks still pretty good at 3.8 but I notice that’s the 12-month number.
I was wondering if you’ve seen any change in the most recent quarter versus prior quarters is it any slower quicker if you give any color on particular industries as well.
The industry distribution continues to be fairly spread out among chemicals paper metals.
The most recent quarter is right upon top -- is right on top of the 12-month average right at that same number 3.75%.[Ph] Okay.
So you haven’t seen any slowing -- just some other utilities they’re seeing a little slowing in industrial but you haven’t seen that in your territory.
We have; we’ve had quite the history of industrial announcements here in the State.
The governor has made it a platform of hers and she has been very aggressive about it.
And we’ve got several that have been announced that are yet to really put jobs on the ground and the most recent was expected 2500 jobs in the next two to three years.
So we’ve got some of those things that are still coming around from announcements one two three years ago.
Then a couple of questions just on the new nuclear build.
I think I heard you say the next big modules to places the CA02 is that correct? And if so when… Yes Dan that’s right.
Is that going to be a third quarter event or later than that? We would anticipate that will be a third quarter event.
Okay.
Are there any other key third quarter items besides the CA02 in the critical path? Well we’ve placed the first of our shield building modules and so we would hope to continue to place more shield building modules but we once we get in the first course of the shield building as a relatively short course.
And as you can see from the photographs it’s about 3-foot panel section.
So we’ve placed a number of those sections now; we’re fitting them up; we’re going to start welding on those probably within a week.
Once we get those welded we will be in a position to do our first concrete pour that will be short lift because it has less than 3 feet.
And then we’ll start that with taller panel.
So the panels from here are going to be either 8-foot or 10-foot tall.
So we’ve got different height panels.
But this first course which is the short course and then we’ll go up vertically from there.
So we’ll make some progress on the shield building.
Okay.
How about for Unit 3 what’s next -- kind of next in the queue for it? Unit 3 there will be some -- we’ve got some concrete pours both outside and inside of the containment vessel.
So you probably saw a release that we set the CA04 module on Unit 3 earlier this year that module is kind of sleeve if you will for the reactive vessel.
The concrete pours will go around that and you try to balance the inside containment with the outside containment concrete pours and so it become enough of those.
We continue to make progress on the walls and we’re going to be focusing same on the turbine building.
We’ve completed the base map pour for turbine building.
We’ve got some large structural steel modules that we got assembled outside of the excavation that will be fine into the excavation putting them on the concrete basement.
So you’ll see some turbine building as well as some nuclear island progress on Unit 3.
Okay.
We also should be finishing up on the cooling towers.
Three of the four cooling towers are structurally complete; fourth one is probably 25% along.
So I would imagine we’ll be making good headway on that last cooling tower.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I’d like to turn the conference back over to Jimmy Addison for closing remarks.
Thank you.
In closing we’re very pleased with our mid-year results as we continue to hit our plan.
We continue to make large strides with our new nuclear construction and are diligently working with the regulators to obtain approval of our new construction and cost schedules.
Thank you for joining us today and for your interest in SCANA.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Thursday October 29 2015.
Anyone who does not consent to the taping may drop off the line.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Susan Wright Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you and welcome to our analyst call.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the third quarter of 2015 and earlier in the week we released an update on our settlement with the Consortium regarding disputes on our new nuclear project.
Joining us on the call today are Jimmy Addison SCANA’s Chief Financial Officer; Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer of SCE&amp;G; and Kevin Marsh our CEO.
During the call Jimmy will provide an overview of our financial results Steve will provide an update of our new nuclear project and Kevin will cover the key points of our settlement.
After our comments we will respond to your questions.
The slides and the earnings release referenced to in this call are available at scana.com.
Additionally we post information related to our new nuclear project and other investor information directly to our website at scana.com.
On SCANA’s homepage there is a yellow box containing links to the new nuclear development and Other Investor Information sections of the website.
It is possible that some of the information that we will be posting from time-to-time maybe deemed material information that has not otherwise become public.
You can sign-up for e-mail alerts under the Investor Relations section of scana.com to notify you when there is a new posting in the nuclear development and/or Other Investor Information sections of the website.
Finally before I turn the call over to Jimmy I would like to remind you that certain statements that maybe made during today’s call are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as shown on slide two.
The company does not recognize an obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Additionally we may disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation and the required Reg G information can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website under Webcasts and Presentations.
I’ll now turn the call over to Jimmy.
Thanks Susan and thank you all for joining us today.
I’ll begin our call by thanking those of you who reached out to us during the historic rainfall and flooding that hit South Carolina earlier this month.
It was and continues to be a trying time for our state and we appreciate your thoughts and prayers as things continued to progress.
While our systems was restored very quickly property damage of the citizens of South Carolina will take a long time to restore and tragically several lives were lost and families altered forever.
Now on slide three we will begin our earnings discussion.
GAAP earnings in the third quarter of 2015 were a $1.04 per share compared to a $1.01 per share in the same quarter of 2014.
The improved results in the third quarter are mainly attributable to higher electric margins due primarily to weather a Base Load Review Act rate increase and customer growth as well as lower depreciation expense as I will discuss shortly.
These were partially offset by lower gas margins primarily due to lost gas margins of $0.06 per share resulting from the sale of CGT and increases in O&amp;M expense and expected increases in CapEx related items included -- including interest and share dilution.
Note that abnormal weather contributed $0.11 per share and $0.07 per share of additional electric margin in the third quarters of 2015 and 2014 respectively.
SCE&amp;G periodically conducts depreciation studies related to electric plant to better determine the proper annual depreciation accrual rates.
A new depreciation study performed earlier this year resulted in the adoption of depreciation rates which produced an annual decrease to depreciation expense of approximately $29 million.
The PSC authorized SCE&amp;G to implement the new depreciation rates effective January 1 2015 and at the company's request the retroactive $14.5 credit from the application of the new rates from January through June of this year has been used to offset a portion of the deferred fuel balance related to its retail electric operations.
For the third quarter of 2015 and all subsequent periods the incremental reduction to depreciation expense will flow through income.
Now please turn to slide four.
Earnings per share for the nine months ended September 30 2015 were $4.53 per share versus $3.06 in 2014.
The improved results are mainly attributable to the net of tax gains on the sales of CGT and SCI higher electric margins due primarily to a Base Load Review Act rate increase and customer growth as well as lower depreciation expense as described earlier.
These were partially offset by lower electric margins due to weather from the first quarter lower gas margins primarily due to lost gas margins of $0.15 per share resulting from the sale of CGT and increase in O&amp;M expense and expected increases in CapEx related items including interest property taxes and share dilution.
Although electric margins reflected a negative $0.01 per share due to weather year-over-year abnormal weather increased electric margins by $0.22 per share year-to-date 2015 compared to $0.23 per share in 2014.
Slide five shows earnings on a GAAP adjusted weather-normalized basis.
Earnings in the third quarter of 2015 were $0.93 per share compared to $0.94 per share in the same quarter of 2014.
Year-to-date September earnings were $2.90 per share in 2015 compared to $2.83 per share in the prior year.
As a reminder GAAP adjusted weather-normalized EPS excludes the impact of abnormal weather on electric margins and the net of tax gains on the sales of CGT and SCI from the first quarter of 2015.
Based upon our results to-date and our expectations for the balance of the year we are reaffirming our 2015 GAAP adjusted weather-normalized earnings guidance of $3.60 to $3.80 per share.
Now on slide six I would like to briefly review results for our principal lines of business.
On a GAAP basis South Carolina Electric &amp; Gas Company’s third quarter 2015 earnings were up $0.06 compared to the same period of 2014.
Increases in earnings were due primarily weather the continued recovery of financing costs through the BLRA and customer growth.
The application of the previously mentioned new depreciation rates also positively contribute to earnings for the quarter.
These items were offset by increases in O&amp;M expenses and expenses related to our capital program including interest expense and share dilution.
Year-to-date earnings were higher by $0.13 due primarily to the same drivers as the quarter with the exception of weather.
PSNC Energy’s reported a seasonal loss of $0.04 per share in the third quarter of 2015 compared to a loss of $0.02 per share in the same quarter of the prior year primarily due to increased O&amp;M depreciation and property taxes partially offset by customer growth.
Year-to-date 2015 earnings are $0.21 per share compared to $0.23 per share in the prior year.
SCANA Energy our retail natural gas marketing business in Georgia showed a decrease in third quarter earnings of $0.01 per share in 2015 over the same quarter of last year primarily due to increased O&amp;M.
For the nine-month period ended September 30 earnings were up $0.01 per share.
On a GAAP basis SCANA’s corporate and other businesses reported a loss of $0.06 per share in the third quarter of 2015 consistent with the prior year.
Lower interest expense at the holding company and increased margins in our marketing business were primarily offset by foregoing earnings contributions from subsidiaries that were sold during the first quarter of this year.
For the nine-month period these businesses reported earnings per share of $1.37 in 2015 compared to $0.02 in 2014.
Excluding the net of tax gains on the sales of CGT and SCI of a $1.41 per share GAAP adjusted weather-normalized EPS was down $0.06 from the prior year again due to foregoing earnings from the sale of the businesses earlier this year.
I would now to touch on economic trends in our service territory on slide seven.
So far in 2015 companies have announced plans to invest over a $1 billion with the expectation of creating over 3 000 jobs in our Carolinas territories.
We are excited by the continues growth in our service territories as Carolina continued to seen as a favorable business environment.
At the bottom of the slide you can see the national unemployment rate along with the rates for the three states where SCANA has a presence and the SCE&amp;G electric territory.
South Carolinas unemployment rate is now at 5.7% and the rate in SCE&amp;G’s electric territory is estimated at 5.3%.
Of particular interest and attesting to our states strong economic growth approximately 80 000 more South Carolinians are working today than a year ago.
Slide eight presents customer growth and electric sales statistics.
On the top half of the slide is the customer growth rate for each of our regulated businesses.
SCE&amp;G’s electric business added customers at a year-over-rate of 1.6%.
Our regulated gas businesses in North and South Carolina added customers at an accelerated rate of 2.8% and 3.1% respectively.
We continue to see very strong customer growth in our businesses and in the region.
The bottom table outlines our actual and weather-normalized kilowatt hour sales for the 12 months ended September 30 2015.
Overall weather-normalized total retail sales were up 1.7% on a 12-month ended basis.
We continue to be encouraged by the strong industrial expansion that has in turn led to strong sales growth not only in the industrial sector but also in the residential and commercial markets.
Now please turn to slide nine which recaps our regulatory rate base and returns.
The pie chart on the left presents the components of our regulated rate base of approximately $9.5 billion.
As denoted in two shades of blue approximately 86% of this rate base is related to the electric business.
In the block on the right you will see SCE&amp;G’s base electric business in which we allotted 10.25% return on equity.
The earned return for 12 months ended September 30 in the base electric business is approximately 9.7% meeting our stated goal of earning a return of 9% or higher to prevent the need for non-BLRA related base rate increases during the peak nuclear construction years.
We continue to be pleased with the execution of our strategy.
Our regulated gas businesses in the Carolinas continue to perform well.
We are allowed to return on equity at 10.25% and 10.6% in South and North Carolina respectively.
Slide 10 presents our CapEx forecast.
This forecast has been updated to reflect our most current CapEx projections for 2016 and ‘17 and is now inclusive of our 2018 estimates.
This forecast also reflects the company’s current estimate of new nuclear spending through 2018 including an estimate of the impact of the settlement with the consortium which Kevin will address later.
At the bottom of the slide we recapped the estimated new nuclear equip from July 1 through June 30 to correspond to the periods of which the BLRA rate increases are historically calculated.
Now please turn to slide 11 to review our updated estimated financing plans through 2018.
As a reminder on May 19th of this year SCE&amp;G issued $500 million of 50-year bonds at 5.1%.
Also in January we issued approximately $14 million in equity through our 401k and drill plans before turning off the plans to new shares.
By acquiring shares on the open market to satisfy the needs of these plants we can further utilize the cash proceeds from the sales of CGT and SCI.
We do not anticipate the need for further equity issuances until 2017 and will turn back on the 401k and drill plans to satisfy those needs.
On the debt side and based upon cash flows and planned construction payments to date we have deferred $325 million of Q4 planned debt issuances and accelerated some issuances from the out years to better align with our expected funding needs.
This plan also anticipates debt to be issued at PSNC to fund its anticipated CapEx spending.
While these are our best estimates of incremental debt and equity issuances it is unlikely that these issuances will occur exactly as presented as they are subject to changes in our funding needs for planned project expenses and will continue to adjust the financing to match the related CapEx on a 50-50 debt and equity basis.
Now I’d like to discuss our 2016 earnings guidance and related assumptions as shown on slide 12.
Our 2016 GAAP-adjusted weather-normalized preliminary earnings guidance is $3.90 per share to $4.10 per share and our internal target is $4 per share.
Due to the cyclical nature of our business we expect to earn approximately 30% of this amount in the first quarter approximately 25% in each of the third and fourth quarters and the remaining 20% in the second quarter.
In computing this guidance range we have included the impact of a base rate increase from our new nuclear filing under the BLRA the accretive impact of the sales of CGT and SCI and our view of their economy.
This guidance also incorporates the CapEx and financing plans we presented earlier.
We forecast electric customer growth to be at approximately 1.5% offsetting our assumption that customer average use of electricity will be slightly lower in 2016.
We anticipate overall weather normalized retail and electric sales growth for 2016 to decline by approximately 0.2%.
We expect operating and maintenance expenses to be approximately 2% higher in 2016 than where we project to finish for the end of 2015.
We also expect continued growth in the CapEx related cost property taxes depreciation and interest.
For the remainder of 2015 exclusive of the taxes on the gains on the sales of the subsidiaries and looking out into 2016 we projected an effective tax rate of approximately 32%.
We continue to be cautiously optimistic about our long-term view and are reaffirming GAAP-adjusted weather normalized average annual growth guidance as we plan to deliver 3% to 6% earnings growth over the three to five years using a base of 2014’s GAAP-adjusted weather normalized EPS of $3.58 per share.
Hopefully this will provide you with some clarity of our view of 2016 as you update your models.
I’ll now turn the call over to Steve to provide an update on our nuclear project.
Thanks Jimmy.
I’d like to begin by addressing the impact that the recent rainfall and flooding at South Carolina had on the new nuclear construction project.
As you’ve probably already seen on our website we estimate that this weather event resulted in a loss of about four days of work effort.
I wanted to clarify that the construction schedule has a contingency for weather delays and other events so that missed day should not impact planned in-service dates for the new units.
We have had very little weather impact to date which is why this event should not have an impact on the project.
Please turn to slide 13.
I’d now like to address the public service commission of South Carolina’s unanimous approval for the petition that SCE&amp;G filed in March of this year seeking approval to update the construction milestone schedule as well as the capital cost schedule for the two new nuclear units.
The approval of the petition along with the settlement agreement entered into with the South Carolina Office of Regulatory Staff and South Carolina Energy Users Committee adjusted the commission approved substantial completion dates to June of 2019 for Unit 2 and June 2020 for Unit 3.
This agreement also allowed for the inclusion of incremental capital cost that totaled $698 million and revised the allowed return on equity to 10.5% from 11% for calculating prospective revised rates sought under the BLRA on or after January 1 of 2016.
Moving on to some of the activities at the new nuclear construction site.
Slide 14 presents an aerial photo of the site from June.
This photo gives you a view of the layout of the site.
And I’ve labeled both Units 2 and 3 as well as many other areas that make up what we call the construction table top.
On slide 15 you can see a picture of the Unit 2 Nuclear Island and this picture you can see module CA20 on the left side of the slide along with the containment vessel first ring which has been placed on and welded to the lower bowl.
If you look through the personnel and equipment hatch openings in the containment vessel ring you can see super structure of module CA01 which as you recall was placed back in July.
We continue to make progress with the fabrication and placement of containment vessels structure and modules.
Slide 16 presents a schematic view of the five large structural modules that are located inside the containment vessel.
This exploded view of CA01 through 05 gives you a better feel for how they fit spatially inside said containment vessel.
As you may know we have now placed CA01 CA04 and CA05 for Unit 2.
Slide 17 shows a picture of CA02 which will be the next structure of module placed in the Unit 2 containment vessel.
Module CA02 is a wall section that forms part of the in-containment for filling water storage tank.
As you see here all five sub-modules have been assembled and CA02 is now structurally complete and has been moved outside of the Module Assembly Building or MAB.
This module is scheduled to be placed sometime in the first half of 2016.
Slide 18 shows a picture of CA03 which is the west wall of the in-containment we’re filling water storage tank.
Four of CA03’s 17 sub modules are on site and three have been fabricated in the MAB.
Slide 19 shows a picture of the Unit 3 Nuclear Island.
Module CA04 was placed inside of the containment vessel lower bowl back in June and the auxiliary building walls as you can see continue to take form.
Slide 20 shows an aerial view of the low profile cooling towers from June.
Three of the four cooling towers are now structurally complete with the fourth 2 Bravo shown on the slide -- sorry -- showed on the slide 21 being about 50% complete.
Please now turn to slide 22.
Here you can see the placement of the concrete foundation for Unit 2 Turbine Building first bay.
The 6-foot thick base mat took 27 hours to pour and consisted of 2100 cubic yards of concrete.
This first bay is the transition from the aux building to the turbine building.
Slide 23 shows the completed Unit 2 transformer base.
These transformer base are constructed with reinforcing bar and concrete and serve as a firewall partially in closing transformers.
These nine transformer base for Unit 2 were completed during August.
Components continue to arrive on site.
On slide 24 you can see some pictures of the Unit 3-Pressurizer arriving in the Port of Charleston.
It was then transferred via rail car to the site.
The pressurizer will be hard inside the containment vessel and will be used to control the pressure and react to coolant system.
Please now turn to slide 25.
As we mentioned during our second quarter call we filed our annual request for advised rates under the BLRA in May.
In response to their request in September the PSC approved an increase of $64.5 million.
The new rates are reflected for bills rendered on or after October 30th.
Our BLRA filings for 2015 are shown at the bottom of the slide and as you can see in August we filed our quarterly status report on our new nuclear project with the commission and the office of regulatory staff for the second quarter of 2015.
We intend to file our quarterly status report for the third quarter in November.
I will now turn the call over to Kevin.
Thanks Steve.
I’m glad to be with you today to provide some details in connection with our amendment to the EPC agreement for the new AP1000 units at the VC Summer site we announced earlier this week.
A number of the key points are summarized on slide 26.
As you know these plants were being constructed under an EPC agreement with consortium of Westinghouse and Chicago Bridge and Iron Subsidaries Stone &amp; Webster.
Westinghouse has announced that it intends to acquire Stone &amp; Webster from CB&amp;I.
Following that acquisition Stone &amp; Webster will continue to be a party to the EPC agreement but as a subsidiary of Westinghouse instead of CB&amp;I.
The amendment to the EPC agreement allows CB&amp;I to exit as guarantee obligation for the project.
Obligations under the EPC agreement are joined and several obligations of Westinghouse and Stone &amp;Webster.
In the October 2015 amendment provides for Toshiba Corporation the parent company of Westinghouse to reaffirm it's a guarantee of the Westinghouse payment obligation.
In exchange for the relief of the CB&amp;I guarantee the amendment of the EPC contract and an option to fix project cost SCE&amp;G Santee Cooper and Westinghouse have agreed to a full resolution and settlement of substantially all loan claims and disputes outstanding under the EPC agreement.
Under this amendment SCE&amp;G has agreed to pay Westinghouse incremental capital cost of approximately $245 million over the $5.247 million approved in the public service commissions’ recent Order Number 2015-661.
This along with estimated escalations and AFUDC would bring the total gross construction cost of the project to approximately $7.113 billion.
The amendment also revises the guarantee to central completion dates of units two and three through August 31 through 2019 and 2020 respectively.
SCE&amp;G share of liquidated damages would increase from $86 million to $509 million.
The new liquidated damages are tied to the new guaranteed substantial completion dates and the eligibility of the units to earn federal production tax credits.
Westinghouse also has opportunity to earn from SCE&amp;G completion bonuses of approximately $303 million or $151.5 million for each unit depending on the timing of the plans being placed into service.
In addition this amendment provides SCE&amp;G for itself and as agent for Santee Cooper an exclusive and irrevocable option until November 1 2016 to further amend the EPC agreement to fix for total amount remaining to be paid for the entire scope of work on the project after June 30 2015 at approximately $3.345 billion which is SCE&amp;G’s 55% portion of $6.082 billion.
This fixed price option would result in SCE&amp;G’s paying Westinghouse incremental project costs of approximately $774 million over the previous escalated amount approved by the PSC of $6.826 billion.
Combined with estimated escalations and AFUDC this would bring the total gross construction cost of the project to approximately $7.601 billion.
If the fixed price option is exercised SCE&amp;G share of a delay related liquidated damages amounts previously referred to would then be capped at approximately $372 million or $186 million per unit.
The completion bonus to be paid by SCE&amp;G with this option is approximately $165 billion or $82.5 million each unit depending on the timing of the plants being placed in service.
Our team worked very hard to include the unilateral fixed price option into this settlement.
We will be evaluating the potential benefits of this option over the next several months.
If elected this option would fix all costs of Westinghouse at an approximate 11% increase over the current PSC approved budget.
We along with our partner Santee Copper believe this option has significant value.
Once final evaluation of this option is complete we will discuss with the South Carolina office of Regulatory Staff our conclusion regarding our decision whether to exercise the option and make a filing with the public service commission of South Carolina.
And important part of the amendment is the development of a new revised construction payment milestone schedule.
Over the next five months or until the new payment schedule is agreed upon SCE&amp;G will make monthly payments of approximately $100 million per month which our share is $55 million.
Thereafter payments will be made to Westinghouse based on construction milestones achieved.
After this milestone schedule is agreed upon and if the fixed price option is elected and approved our CapEx schedule Jimmy reviewed on slide 10 will be updated and our financing schedule will be confirmed as well.
The amendment also modifies the EPC agreement to explicitly define what constitutes a change in law to reduce the likelihood of certain commercial disputes.
A Dispute Resolution Board will be established for resolution of disputes as the requirement or ability to bring suit before substantial completion of the project is then eliminated.
Finally I’m excited to have full cooperation involved in the project.
Fluor was established in South Carolina and has a deep nuclear pedigree with this nuclear division being headquarter in Greenville South Carolina.
We’ve had a long relationship with Fluor and believe they have an excellent record of delivering on commitments.
That concludes our prepared remarks and we will now be glad to respond to any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Andrew Weisel of Macquarie Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon guys.
Hey Andrew.
First question is on the option to switch to the fixed costs for the construction.
What would be some of the reasons not to do it? You mentioned a lot of benefits.
What might be some reasons why you won’t exercise it and when do you think you might make that decision? Well we will make the decision over the next 6 to 12 months.
We have 12 months to make the final decision.
We want to take some time to let Fluor get acclimated to the project and have them look at the project schedule the timetable associated with the completion dates and get their opinion combined with our valuation of how they intend to approach the completion of the project.
So we can evaluate the option we are under today which is to complete the project with the target pricing along with the fixed and firm.
Both of the project will have to be done is in that target category which means we pay the costs that they incur.
That’s important to us because when we get their feedback on the achievement of the milestones and what risks we think we may have there.
We think we’ve strengthened our risk position there because we’ve increased the LDs on the project significantly.
I think at 6 times if we go under the existing option today.
So once we get the change to fully evaluate the schedule the new completion dates along with their oversight and our complete evaluation I think we will be in a better position to make that decision.
We certainly think the fixed price option is very appealing.
We work hard to negotiate that option into our settlement because it does give us additional protections for rising cost.
Certainly interest rates and projected escalation rates between now and the time we make that decision will have an impact on which way we might so.
But we just need some more time to evaluate that more fully.
Okay.
But it sounds like you are leaning towards taking that option or is it -- do you seem to take that? No.
I wouldn’t make that decision today.
I still think it’s very appealing and certainly it gives us a backstop if we weren’t comfortable with the existing option.
But I don’t want to leave the impression that we have made that decision today because we want that time to evaluate where the projects going what we think interest rates might do in the future what impact that could have on escalation and just the overall time schedule  Got it.
Okay.
Next question is my understanding is that so far your payment schedule hasn’t really been based on the completion of milestones so you need to have a true-up of what’s been paid so far.
Are you expecting to be ahead or behind? In other words are you expecting to get some cash back from cost over today? We are certainly ahead on the schedule because that was one of the things that drove but it was behind many of the speeds on the project that we resolved with this amendment.
In the original agreement there were two types of payments we made.
Some of those were based on time just passing the timetable on the schedule and others were based on actual work done.
That got to be fairly contentious because we felt like in some circumstances we were being billed for work that was not being completed consistently with the schedule we had agreed to in the original contract.
What this amendment does is it resolves those differences.
So everything that’s being paid today is I think I’m confident saying that was below -- it's actually been performing on the project.
We are certainly not ahead of schedule.
So what we will do is we are going to work with Westinghouse in Fluor very carefully to come up with a new construction payment milestone schedule.
We will take about five months to do that.
We’ve estimated during that time.
On a 100% basis we will be paying $100 million per month and then at the end of six months that will be trued-up.
So it won’t be ahead or behind at that point.
And then from that point on once we agree to the schedule payments will be made as milestones are achieved and that will be very simply.
If the works done they will be paid.
If the works not done in accordance with the schedule regardless how much time has passed there won’t be a payment required from us.
So that $100 million is 100% basis so our 55% share will be $55 million.
That’s right.
Thanks Steve.
Okay.
And all of that is embedded in the financing slide you showed through 2018? It is Andrew.
So what we did in updating that schedule is simply took the formula that Kevin and Steve just alluded to and recast the first seven months according to that basis and then the next five months of 2016 we will just use an estimate of what we had there existing.
So we have at least improved for what we know for those first five to seven months and we are just going to need to refresh everything once we get to that point where we are ready to take this before the commission and we will refresh our CapEx and financing schedule at that point.
Okay.
Great.
And then just lastly since we assume that the financing plans being equity in particular assumes no bonus depreciation and what will that look like if you do have an extension? Bonus depreciation is in the ballpark of $75 million a year.
So that’s the value of it to us.
And you are right it does not assume that.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thanks Andrew.
The next question will come from Julien Dumoulin Smith of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
So with the depreciation benefits in earnings now helping you I supposed and you tell me drive towards close to your authorized ROE how are you thinking about your earnings growth rate here? Obviously it’s better than the 3 to 6 just thinking more dramatically here.
Yeah.
First of all we do -- we have historically done and had an informal kind of commitment with the commission to refresh your depreciation rates every five years or so.
And that’s simple enough to do and get into the rate process when you have inflation related driven rate case every two three four years.
Since we have this strategy of staying out of any base rate increases other than the BLRA we were getting on the outside of that timeframe.
So we refreshed it went to the commission ask them to approve it they did and we’ve implemented that now for 2015 and forward.
So it is a kind of a one-time reset if you will.
Ultimately it will all be kind of put back into the whole rate process at some point down the road or after the BLRA is over and the new units are in place.
But in the mean time you can say we might be on the upper edge or slightly outside the band in the very short run.
But that guidance is a three to five year intermediate band and not just a one year band.
So I don’t know that that really puts us outside of it outside of that three to five year band because we reset that every year.
Right.
But just to clarify real quickly in terms of earning your ROE next year there is no reason why this step-up that you are seeing with the depreciation study that’s a real sustainable benefit occurring to you guys.
It is.
Until the next rate case presumably as you said.
That’s right and everything gets reset.
But we are comfortable with our strategy of earning in that 9% to 10.25% range on the base electric business for the next three years.
Got it.
Based on what we know today obviously.
Right.
And then let me cut back to the sales growth expectations did I hear you right in saying a slight decline next year in the baseline forecast for the '16 guidance and can you expand on why that might be given the year-to-date experience? Yeah the year-to-date experience is inconsistent with the last two years.
If we’re confident that we’re going to get growth year-over-year for '15 to '16 we would have more upside.
And honestly I hope we experienced that because that’s a great signal of the economy in South Carolina if that’s the case.
But at this point our best modeling says that for the first time there will be almost a wash between the incremental margin from new customers offset by the slight margin decline from all customers due to energy efficiency etcetera.
And honestly that’s a good sign for us because as our whole industry has dealt with the last several years the customer growth has been overwhelmed by the efficiency in the decline in average use.
So we are glad we are back to be able to project the breakeven and hope we have the challenge that you alluded to because that’s good news for the economy.
Right.
And then there is no specific customer class here that you’re highlighting that you would drive that right? No but the predominant of it is in the residential commercial classes.
Right absolutely.
All right.
Great.
Well thank you.
You are welcome.
The next question will come from Jim von Riesemann of Mizuho Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys congratulations on a settlement.
Thank you Jim.
I just wanted to follow up on some of the Julien’s questions.
How much is the depreciation affects post the impact fourth quarter earnings? Jim it’s about a $0.03 per quarter run rate so $0.12 a year.
Okay.
And then so I guess the follow-up question to that is your trailing 12 is what 365 366 and your internal midpoint before was 370 on a weather normalized basis.
Do you expect to hit that number? Do we expect to hit which number? The 370 number your internal target number? We do.
Okay.
Secondly switching over to the settlement are the bonus payments included in the capital cost are those incremental? They would be incremental Jim.
They are not included in the base costs we disclosed in the amendment.
Are those shareholders born or customer born? That has not been determined.
They will be before the commission and have a chance to explain both of these options and then which one we choose to go with.
Since we don’t know exactly whether or not those will be paid out or what amounts it might be paid out in for one or both things because it’s done on a per unit basis.
We can’t exactly determine if it’s going to be paid.
We would like to have these projects completed on time and have that a nice problem to have.
We will address that with the commission unlikely to ask commission how we proceed that and my recommendation would be we wait till the end of the project to see where the final cost comes in.
So that’s most likely recommendation to the commission since we can’t determine exactly what that would be today and that might be influenced by which option we take too.
Have you guys chat with the rating agencies yet? Yes.
What was the response? Well those not published anything yet I expect they will in the near term but just to characterize the oral discussions I think it was generally neutral deposit with each of the agencies.
Okay.
Can you just talk about? And then lastly could you talk about how the risk get rebucketed from under this settlement I mean obviously you’ve absorbed some of your own risk that you bought but how much -- what sort of risk would you say that you still retain and the risk that the construction consortium retains? Well I would say our risk profile under either options is significantly enhanced.
And in fact under the existing option that we’ve resolved all of these outstanding issues eliminates the risk of potential litigations and there was issues in the risk that are just inherent and going through that process over time.
And I think the fact that we’ve significantly raised the liquidated damages gives us a lot more protection under the existing contracts arrangement our liquidity damages are 6 times what they were in the original contract.
We still bear the risk of potential increased escalation and just increased interest expense during that time on the targeted dollars and the majority dollars to be spent between now and the completion of the project or in that target bucket.
But I think when you add all of those together our risk profile is certainly reduced from where it was before we signed the amendment.
On the fixed price option that we have in front of us I think that really enhances our risk profile as we shift that escalation risk back to Westinghouse and our only risk would be changes in law or change orders it might be associated with the project and we still got incentives payable under either option it would encourage them to complete the units on time.
So anything that helps that happen in accordance with the schedule and the guaranteed completion date would lower our risk profile.
Jim this is Steve.
I would give one amplification to that under either scenario I think we have enhanced our risk profile because where we get into commercial disputes with the consortium today they largely revolve around the definition of a change in law and they would use the term commercially driven or regulatory driven change and the language around changes that we’ve worked on and incorporate into this agreement significantly restricts what will be allowed as a regulatory driven change.
So we certainly improved it from that perspective.
We also have a contract the EPC contract remember that was signed in about 2008 early '08 and that was based on the -- at that time our current revision of the design certification document or DCD which is about 16.
We were licensed to Rev 19.
So they submitted a couple of revisions between signing it and the final approval.
And so that has caused us some commercial issues in the interim and we resolved that with this agreement by updating the contract to DCD Rev 19 which is what we’re licensed to.
And Jim so I will get a pitch in on this and one other from a financial perspective.
And under the old agreement anytime we disputed an invoice we paid 90% of it as you are aware.
Under the new arrangement if we disputed we don’t pay anything and we get a fairly rapid resolution from a resolution board.
So we think that’s a much better situation too to get all the parties to the table and of course there is one less probably to get to the table than it was in the past.
So let me ask like a worse case basis type question so has Fluor and Westinghouse looked at the quality of work that has been done by CB&amp;I? Yeah I think that Fluor has not had an opportunity to look at the quality.
Fluor will not take over until the deal is effective.
There is a period of time for regulatory approvals of the deal standard stuff perhaps compete slightly by the fact that Toshiba is a foreign entity.
So there are regulatory approvals that need to take place that’s why we think that that will be about a 45-day window and that’s when Fluor will have their first opportunity to assess things like quality.
But Westinghouse has had an opportunity to assess quality as of our folks.
And so we don’t just rely on the quality from the vendor in this case CB&amp;I.
We have our own quality group and own quality inspectors and we send our folks not just at the site but we will send them to facilities that are manufacturing components whether it would be CB&amp;I or somebody else and we will send them whether it’s domestically or internationally.
Our QA QC inspectors have got a lot of stamps on their passports.
So we will be able to assure Fluor of the quality in construction so far.
So you are happy with the quality so there is going to be no aha moment is what you’re saying? Yeah we don’t anticipate any aha moment.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you Jim.
The next question will come from Travis Miller of Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Hey Travis.
Just wondering on this regulatory stuff in terms of a settlement.
One how much were regulators involved in this either the federal level or state level? Was anybody involved and what was that makeup in terms of regulatory involvement? They were not directly involved into negotiations.
Certainly we briefed also regulatory staff before we made up the final announcement of the settlement agreement.
It was our commitment to the commission when we were in there this year talking about the contract changes and getting approvals at that time from the existing contracts that we would come back to them and let them know of any changes in the status of the project.
So we expect to be before the commission here in the near future and ex-partake communication which is a quickest way for us to get in front of them and educate them on more of the details of the contractual amendments involved and how the options would work for the company going forward.
And of course once we make the final decision we would be obligated to go back and make that filing to adjust the timetables and the entity -- excuse me and the cost associated with it.
Okay.
You answered most of my second question there in terms of the regulatory process there but is there a chance that regulators could deny the settlement say it’s not in customers interest? Certainly they have got that option every time we go in but our commission has been very supportive of what we’ve done on this project in the past.
They view it as critical not just to provide energy to customers of South Carolina but it’s a key component of our response to the 111(d) Clean Power Plan.
So it is critical to not just us but also for our partners Santee Cooper.
So we feel like we are within the guidelines of the challenges we put before us to try to complete the project depending on which option we elect.
We will go back and present our case to the commission as to why we decided to continue down the same path why we believe it’s the best interest to elect the fixed option and they generally listen to our testimony and evaluated that and made a fair decision.
I certainly can’t guarantee that but I feel like we would do a good job explaining our position to the commission in a way that they could make a very fair valuation of our election.
Okay.
And what kind of timeline would that be on? When we make the decision or once we make the filing they have six months to render a decision.
So if we were to make a decision for example to elect the fixed price option in early June next year they will have to make that decision by early December.
So it’s a six month window from start to finish.
Got it.
Thanks so much.
I appreciate it.
Yes sir.
The next question will come from Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Hey Paul.
Does the fixed price option cover all materials and labor or just some of the…? It covers all remaining work to be done under the contract from now or actually from June 15th until completion.
So it covers everything.
Yes.
Okay.
And then is there any change in your financing expectations or anything as a result of if you did move to the fixed price things like that? Paul let me go back and add one thing to my previous answer it does cover the construction cost.
We still have transmission work to be done but that’s included in the total expected project cost we provided.
So those numbers all included then because the transmission is outside of the EPC contract as well as owners cost.
Okay.
And on to your next question about financing no change in our philosophy of 50-50 debt and equity we just need to get through the process of reassessing with Fluor making our option choice going to the commission and getting that approval hopefully.
And then recasting the payments accordingly and confirm our financing schedule to that.
Okay.
And then the -- there is some fabrication discussion of moving the fabrication from Florida to other places is that affected by the amended agreement? Yeah.
Paul this is Steve.
The discussion about our facility in Florida that was fabricating some of the sub-modules that was going to be the case whether we stayed under the existing contract or go under either the two options that we’re proposing.
So there's a facility in Florida and they are moving that work from that facility in Florida back to the Lake Charles facility for the trailing unit.
And for the leading unit we’re actually taking those components to our site and we’re finishing the sub-module fabrication there before we found them into the larger modules.
And why is that why isn’t being from what was the reason for the change? I think its two things one it’s that that facility had some commercial issues between themselves and CB&amp;I.
And secondly they had a lot of work to do things were backing up.
They did have some quality issues while they came up speed and we just think we can do it more expeditiously at our site.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Thanks Paul.
The next question will come from Feliks Kerman of Visium Asset Management.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Congratulations on the quarter.
So this was answered just wanted to clarify.
In our 2016 guidance number what ROE are we assuming for the base electric business? Yeah.
We have been explicit about on ROE but today we’re at about 9.7% and more comfortable will be in the band of 9% to 10.25% for the next three years based on our assumptions to-date.
So is it okay to assume that the next time we follow rate case there would be at the three-year cycle? We clearly said our strategy is to not follow base rate increase while we’re during these nuclear peak construction years so yes that is a safe assumption.
Okay.
Thank you.
Sure.
The next question will comes from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Congrats on the arrangement with Westinghouse Toshiba et cetera.
Sounds like a great deal and look forward to chatting with you about it in more detail at EI.
A couple of minor questions first of all can you give us an update on how 2015 nuclear CapEx is progressing? I noticed the table didn’t have 2015 numbers on it.
Just wanted to see relative to your last disclosure whether there's been any change to the expected spend this year on the project? Yeah.
Michael we are a little behind our expected spend there I’d say in the $100 million or so range.
I don't know that a lot of that will be made up between obviously with only a couple months left in the transition going on them but that’s kind of where we are through the year -- through to-date.
Got it.
Okay.
So we should bring down our 2015 number a little bit and just assume that’s embedded in either those 2016 to ‘18 timeline or in the last year or so of the project? You can in your assumptions I would tell you that from our basis it’s in our guidance both for ‘15 and ’16.
Got it.
Okay.
Real quick on the DNA study and the impact I want to make sure I’m capturing the EPS impact to this correctly.
So next year what is the incremental EPS impact in 2016 that you're not going to recognize in 2015? About $0.06 will impact 2015 and an incremental $0.06 in 2016 for an aggregate $0.12 and that will be the run rate for ‘16 forward.
Got it.
And can you -- I want to make sure I tie that back.
In the slide deck it mentions $0.10 in this quarter -- in third quarter is that just its not the full $0.10 because of rate credit that was done or the reduction that was done on the deferred fuel balance? That’s exactly right.
So we did record three quarters worth in 2015 into third quarter because it applied back to January 1st but the first two quarters went to offset the fuel and so we only got net income impact of one quarter in ‘15 though the Q3 recording.
Got it.
Last thing and looking at the CapEx schedule the utility CapEx in North Carolina the gas utility there seems like that a good bit higher when we get out to 2017 and 2018.
Can you talk about that talk about the timing and plans for potential rate case filings? And how you would or are there other mechanisms that can give you rate relief after spending significant capital level there? Yeah.
Well obviously the low price in natural gas is driven a lot of opportunity for industry for electric generation from gas plants et cetera and that is certainly been the case in North Carolina.
So we’ve had enough lot of opportunities that have popped up.
We have executed some contracts in the last quarter or two that have driven this need to enhance some of our existing plants to grow the transmission system so that was really driving these numbers.
And clearly it’s starting to drive down the earned return and so it will drive the need for a rate proceeding at sometime in the near future.
We’ve not made any final decisions on that but I expect we will have someone announcement around that in 2016.
Got it.
So maybe a case in '16 implemented in '17 or a case in '17 implemented in '18 kind of somewhere in that time horizon? Yeah.
Again haven’t made any final decisions but today I would say it’s more likely your first scenario than the second.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Much appreciated.
Sure.
The next question will come from Dan Jenkins of State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Hey Dan.
Just kind of following on Michael’s question there on the CapEx changes.
And I was looking at the prior one and it looks like 2016 is up by about $260 million or now about a $120 million and 2017 is up by about a $120 million versus why you had in last quarter slides is that due to the additional delays? Or is that due to the work not getting done in 2015 is being pushed in 2016? Or how should I think about that? Yeah.
Dan are you talking about the total CapEx because the numbers I have are that we’re up about $60 million for '16 and down about $60 million for '17 overall.
I'm looking at the bottom of the total estimated capital expenditures at the bottom.
We only have about -- sorry you go ahead.
The slide I’m looking at last quarter for '16 estimated at'17 38 and for '17 at 1617.
That’s not what I have here in front of me.
We’ll have to clear that up.
This is what I -- I’m just holding up part from the website so… Let me give you a little color on what we have changed.
So we’ve made the best estimate we can on the nuclear as I described earlier for 2016 based upon the revised agreement.
The other thing we've done is there are reductions in the SCE&amp;G base electric business just based upon our commitment to scrub the CapEx for that business and try to avoid any base electric rate increases.
The other significant change is adding the CapEx to the North Carolina gas system PSNC Energy and so we added about 75 in '16 and 46 in '17 for PSNC.
So those are the three large changes.
For '16 135 down in electric 53 -- 75 up at PSNC and 115 up in nuclear.
Okay.
Then on a question on slide eight on the sales and customer growth.
Yeah.
And again looking at last quarter’s release I realized these are 12 -- I’m looking at the table at the bottom for kilowatt hours the last I realize this is 12 months ending numbers but there are big changes and why they’re normalized so that the residential went from basically negative 30 basis points to a positive 170 and commercial from positive 30 to positive 140.
And then conversely the industrial went from 3.8% to under 2.3%.
So are you seeing that kind of big changes from quarter-to-quarter? And can you give me some more color on what's going on in the demand from the various customer segments? We are seeing that kind of change from quarter-to-quarter.
And I would tell you that it probably has more to do with the slide before that on the economy than anything else in our opinion.
Let me give you a little more depth on that.
So as I said in my earlier prepared comments there are 80 000 more South Carolinians working today than they were a year ago.
The unemployment rate has dropped from 6.6 to 5.7 but that only tells part of the story.
The workforce has expanded 3%.
So if the workforce were the same level today than it were a year ago the unemployment rate would be less than 3% in South Carolina.
So the industrial recruitment in the state has been a real homerun.
Our governor has made that central to a platform and she has been extremely successful.
And we’ve seen it in the RNC markets as a result of that.
Now contrast that to North Carolina where the workforce is expanded 1.8% contrasted to Georgia where it’s actually slightly down almost breakeven year-over-year.
The South Carolina is really growing.
I guess kind of the concern though is the big slowdown in the industrial sector and what that might being going forward do you have any color down as to why that drop so much? I don’t have any specific no large closings or anything like that that has driven that I’m aware of.
I’m not too concerned about that in the short run.
I know the pipeline of projects that we’re talking about that could be coming around the corner.
I was just met this week with two with our head of industrial area about two new potential large projects in the area.
So I really don’t have any specific concern there.
I think some of those might be related to real-time pricing customers that chose to come off the system during the heat of the summer rather than pay some of the prices they might have had to pay.
Okay.
And then my last set of questions is related to the nuclear construction schedule and kind of the critical mix kind of critical path items.
It sounds like maybe for unit three it’s the CA02.
Is that correct? Say again Dan.
The critical path items both for Unit 2 and 3 so is the next one for Unit 2 that CA02 that you said is going to be placed in first half of ‘16 or is there something else before that? Yeah.
The next one of the structural modules to be placed will be that CA02 that you mentioned.
The critical path right now on the units really is still running through the shield building.
And we did placed first role of those shield building panels last quarter and we anticipate doing some more of those in the near future.
But the critical path for the units really for both units still run through that shield building.
We see the shield building panels fit up the shield building panels and then pour the concrete in the panels once they’re in place and welded.
What about so for Unit 3 is it -- it's pretty much the same as Unit 2 or is there given that there is a year difference in kind of the … Now Dan it’s basically the same story three and three.
Okay.
Thank you.
That’s all I had.
Thanks Dan.
Sorry.
Our next question will come from Mitchell Moss of Lord Abbett.
Please go ahead.
Hi just want to get a couple clarifications on the nuclear cost.
Looking at the slide with -- that’s show different option.
I’m sorry -- I’m aging forward to that.
That slide 26.
Slide 26 yeah.
Of the updated amounts comparing the old order to the amended EPC is there a rough break down how much of that is related to the two months delay in the substantial complete dates versus increase in construction cost or others stuff? Yeah.
The biggest part of that would be about $10 million a month and owners cost so approximately $20 million of that would be related to that category.
Okay.
And then if I think about the added cost of going from the amended EPC to the fixed price options it looks like it's around $500 million I guess of the additional project costs.
If I do the math from prior presentations 2017 to 2019 CapEx is projected to be around $2 billion.
So should I think that that incremental $500 million effectively would fix but 2017 to 2019.
If you are not going to make your decision necessarily until late 2016 then effectively you’re really just fixing the 2017 to 2019 CapEx? Well Mitchell we are fixing if we elect the fixed price options but it doesn’t directly correlate any kind of the specific burn rate.
Remember the real different as you look there are about $500 million difference that you point out that really is the risk that the contractor will price and to fix it to us.
So what you’re doing is you are paying risk premium and then they have to make assumptions around things like inflation what the escalation rates are going to be.
So that really is -- was a negotiated number but it really is reflective of the risk but now the contractor will have to take on.
Mitchell we’re reflective of all payments made after June 15th of this year.
If we elect the fixed price option anything we pay or paid since June up until the time we elect that option we get credit for 100%.
Mitchell the CapEx schedule on page 10 we’ve made our best estimate of how those amendments will affect the cash flow in the short term.
But as Kevin said in his prepared comments once this milestone payment schedule is developed we are going to have to confirm the CapEx schedule no matter which option we go with to match that.
So those numbers will change.
I’m sure I just don't know exactly at this point.
Sorry.
They will change based on what? The milestone payment schedule that Kevin covered earlier so we are going to develop -- this milestone payment schedule is going to be tied to specific milestones being accomplished.
And then we’ll confirm our CapEx and financing schedule to that depended upon which option we elect.
Okay.
But once the fixed price option is selected that milestone payment schedule won't matter so much? No.
It will.
It is really critical because what we are going to do here from the next four or five month is develop the schedule.
So there's clarity as to what need to be completed for a payment to be made to Westinghouse.
And so once that schedule is completed there will be dollars assigned to that if we continue under the existing contract.
And then there will be the dollars assigned to that if we were going under the fixed price contract.
So the schedule will remain employed under either option.
But the payment that go along with it will be based on whether we take the fixed price option or continue under the option we’re working under today.
So the contrast that we are going to make any payments in the future after this payment schedule is agreed to based upon the calendar they are going to based upon actual results.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Yes sir.
[Operator Instruction] We have a follow-up question from Julien Dumoulin-Smith of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hey there again.
Sorry to follow-up here.
I just wanted to reach back on this fixed price auction and just kind of understand where the potential liabilities still lie on your side if there is indeed a protracted schedule here? So could you perhaps give us a sense a little bit more? I know you covered a little bit with Paul.
But to the extent you have a timeline shift where are you responsible what specific costs do you responsible for in the fixed price options that you’ve laid out if you choose to go that way? Okay.
The total fixed price options would be $7.601 billion as we’ve laid out on slide 26.
It’s the third or fourth lying down.
That would be the total expected project cost.
Of that the capital cost portion over the year the construction contract EPC contract will be $6.757 billion.
So the additional amount would be escalation to date on the existing work that's been done.
And then some additional dollars the additional $20 million associated with the schedule moving out two months for owner’s cost.
Both of that is fixed in the fixed price contract and that would be based on the guaranteed substantial completion dates of unit two August of 2019 and unit three August of 2020.
And the liquidated damages are key to all of us for each of those dates for specific units.
Got it.
But could you give us a sense of how much would be exposed to and by what variables? If you were to have for instance the shift off of that August of 2019 and 2020 date? Just to kind of give us a sense of the magnitude there I appreciate that a lot of it would be presumably fixed but..? Julien.
This is Steve.
The only thing that would not be fixed would be the things that we would be responsible before outside of the EPC contract so that will be our owners’ cost and then the transmission.
But we can finish the transmission even if the plans are not finished.
So really it comes down just to owners’ costs.
And can you remind us what that is per month? Yeah.
We are looking at a burn rate and owners’ costs at somewhere in the range of $10 million a month.
Got it.
Excellent.
Well.
Thank you again.
Yes sir.
The next question will be a follow-up from Jim von Riesemann of Mizuho Securities.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
I’m going to go back to depreciation a second if you guys don’t mind.
So what were the assets that were changed in the depreciation lines to get such a big number on an EPS business? I’m sorry I forgot that.
No.
I don’t know that you forgot.
And I don’t know I don’t think it’s been published anywhere.
But what we really did we refreshed our entire comprehensive depreciation study across the whole electric systems.
So it includes the T&amp;D and the generation system.
What gen -- can you buck it which was -- might have been generation versus the T&amp;D? And then I’m trying to think what’s your big generation assets are because the older ones already got a long useful life right.
Yeah.
We are down to about five significant generating plants outside of new nuclear.
So I really can't give you the buckets here Jim.
You can probably go to the PSC website and get more details on it and publicly there.
Okay.
But Jim -- big picture Jim it is trying to match up the real expected lives to the depreciation schedule.
And for example at our nuclear facilities we would anticipate that as opposed to just the 20-year life extension that we will be pursuing a second life extension.
So that would take that plant out to 80 years total.
And then we are using actual history on some of the plants that we've been operating and we are extending the depreciation scales out on those plants to get match up with what we really think is the useful life.
Okay.
That’s what I was after.
Thanks Steve.
Our next question will come from David Fishman of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my call.
I just have a quick follow-up on what Michael asked about.
I was just wondering does PSNC have a historical or forward test years.
Historical.
Historical.
All right.
Great.
Thank you.
Yes.
Congrats again.
And our next question will be a follow-up from Feliks Kerman of Visium Asset Management.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
Just a quick follow-up.
When we come down to the point of making decision between the fixed option and the current would it makes sense to get commission approval prior to choosing the fixed option or how should we think about that? No.
The way the process would work is we have an obligation to go back to the commission if there was a change in the price the capital call schedule that they’ve already approved.
So either option would require us to go to the condition at some point so we need to make an election of which options we believe is superior.
So we can go back to the commission ask for approval of that option.
It wouldn’t be likely that we will go back to a commission and say you tell us which one you like and we will hit down that road.
They will look for us to make a recommendation a specific recommendation to them.
And when can we expect that to happen.
We have 12 months from the effective date to make that option.
So -- excuse me it run in November 1 2016 that’s the specific date in the contract.
Okay.
Thank you.
When we will go and ask for it? And ladies and gentlemen that will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to hand the conference back over to Jimmy Addison for his closing remarks.
Well.
Thank you very much and certainly so far this year has been very eventful.
We are very pleased with our progress with the resolutions to the negotiations and with our financial results through the first three quarters.
We continue to focus on the new nuclear construction and on operating all of our business in a safe and reliable manner.
And we thank you all for joining us today and for your interest in SCANA.
Have a good day.
And the conference has now concluded.
We thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
I will be your conference facilitator for today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Thursday February 18 2016.
Anyone who does not consent to the taping may drop off the line.
At this time I would like to turn the conference call over to Susan Wright Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Thank you and welcome to our analyst call.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2015.
Joining us on the call today are Jimmy Addison SCANA’s Chief Financial Officer and Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer of SCE&amp;G.
During the call Jimmy will provide an overview of our financial results and Steve will provide an update of our new nuclear project.
After our comments we will respond to your questions.
The slides and the earnings release referenced to in this call are available at scana.com.
Additionally we post information related to our new nuclear project and other investor information directly to our Web site at scana.com.
On SCANA’s homepage there is a yellow box containing links to the new nuclear development and other Investor Information sections of the Web site.
It is possible that some of the information that we will be posting from time-to-time may be deemed material information that has not otherwise become public.
You can sign-up for e-mail alerts under the Investors section of scana.com to notify you when there is a new posting in the nuclear development and/or other Investor Information sections of the Web site.
Finally before I turn the call over to Jimmy I would like to remind you that certain statements that may be made during today’s call are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as shown on Slide 2.
The Company does not recognize an obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Additionally we may disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation and the required Reg G information can be found in the Investor Relations section of our Web site under Webcasts &amp; Presentations.
I’ll now turn the call over to Jimmy.
Thanks Susan and thank you all for joining us today.
I'll begin our earnings discussion on Slide 3.
GAAP earnings in the fourth quarter of 2015 were $0.69 per share compared to $0.73 per share in the same quarter of 2014.
The decrease in earnings in the fourth quarter is mainly attributable to the negative impact of weather on electric margins as well as on gas margins in our Georgia business.
Lower gas margins also reflect $0.07 per share of lost margins due to the sale of CGT early in the year.
These losses were partially offset by higher electric margins due primarily to a Base Load Review Act rate increase and customer growth as well as lower depreciation expense as a result of a new depreciation study.
And lower O&amp;M expense due primarily to labor savings and the impact of the sales of CGT during the first quarter of 2015.
Note too that abnormal weather decreased electric margins by $0.14 per share and $0.02 per share versus normal in the fourth quarters of 2015 and 2014 respectively.
Please turn to Slide 4.
Earnings per share for the year ended December 31 2015 were $5.22 versus $3.79 in 2014.
The improved results are mainly attributable to the net of tax gains on the sales of CGT and SCI higher electric margins due primarily to a Base Load Review Act rate increase and customer growth as well as lower depreciation expense and O&amp;M as described earlier.
These were partially offset by lower electric margins due to weather lower gas margins -- primarily due to lost gas margins of $0.23 per share resulting from the sale of CGT and the impact of abnormal weather on the Georgia business.
And normal increases in CapEx related items including interest property taxes and share dilution.
Although electric margins reflected a negative $0.13 per share due to weather year over year abnormal weather increased electric margins in both years accounting for $0.08 per share in 2015 compared to $0.21 in 2014.
Slide 5 shows earnings on a GAAP Adjusted Weather Normalized basis.
Earnings in the fourth quarter of 2015 were $0.83 per share compared to $0.75 per share in the same quarter of 2014.
Full-year earnings were $3.73 per share in 2015 compared to $3.58 per share in the prior year.
As a reminder GAAP Adjusted Weather Normalized EPS excludes the impact of abnormal weather on electric margins and the net of tax gains on the sales of CGT and SCI from the first quarter of 2015.
Abnormal weather on gas margins is not adjusted in this measure as gas margins are weather-normalized for the North and South Carolina businesses.
And the direct impact of abnormal weather on the Georgia business is generally insignificant.
However the extremely mild weather in the fourth quarter of 2015 was seen in that business as standalone results as I'll discuss later.
Now on Slide 6 I'd like to briefly review results for our principal lines of business.
On a GAAP basis South Carolina Electric &amp; Gas Company's fourth-quarter 2015 earnings were down $0.01 per share compared to the same period of 2014.
The decrease in earnings is due to lower electric margins due to abnormal weather and higher expenses related to our capital program including interest expense and property taxes.
These decreases more than offset increases due to the continued recovery of financing costs through the BLRA customer growth in both the electric and gas businesses the application of the previously mentioned new depreciation rates and lower O&amp;M due primarily to labor savings.
For the full-year 2015 earnings were higher by $0.12 per share due to increased electric margins primarily from the continued recovery of financing costs through the BLRA and customer growth improved gas margins due to customer growth and the application of new depreciation rates.
These items were partially offset by the effective abnormal weather on electric margins and higher expenses related to our capital program including interest expense property taxes dilution and continued increases in depreciation exclusive of the impact of the depreciation study.
Although weather in both years contributed favorably to electric margins versus normal 2015 was milder than 2014 with weather contributing $0.08 of margin versus normal in 2015 compared to $0.21 in 2014.
PSNC Energy reported earnings of $0.17 per share in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to $0.16 per share in the same quarter of the prior year primarily due to higher margins from customer growth.
For the year ended December 2015 earnings are $0.38 per share compared to $0.39 per share in the prior year.
SCANA Energy our retail natural gas marketing business in Georgia showed a decrease in fourth-quarter earnings of $0.06 per share in 2015 over the same quarter of last year.
Primarily due to lower throughput and margins attributable to the extremely warm weather during the fourth quarter of 2015 as compared to 2014 partially offset by lower bad debt expense.
For the 12 months ended December 31 2015 earnings were down $0.05 per share compared to the same period of 2014 due to the same drivers as the quarter.
On a GAAP basis SCANA's corporate and other businesses reported a loss of $0.01 per share in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to $0.03 in the comparative quarter of the prior year.
Lower interest expense at the holding company and increased margins at our marketing business were primarily offset by foregone earnings contributions from the subsidiaries that were sold during the fourth quarter of this year.
For the 12 month period these businesses reported earnings per share of $1.36 in 2015 compared to $0.01 loss in 2014.
Excluding the net of tax gains on the sales of CGT and SCI of $1.41 per share GAAP Adjusted Weather Normalized EPS was down $0.04 from the prior year due primarily to foregone earnings from the sale of the businesses earlier this year.
Offset by lower interest expense at the holding company and increased margins in our marketing business.
I would now like to touch on economic trends in our service territory on Slide 7.
In 2015 companies announced plans to invest over $2 billion with the expectation of creating over 6 000 jobs in our Carolinas territories.
The Carolinas continue to be seen as a favorable business environment and we're pleased by the continuous growth in our service territories.
At the bottom of the slide you can see the national unemployment rate along with the rates for the three states where SCANA has a presence and the SCE&amp;G electric territory.
South Carolina's unemployment rate is now at 5.5% and the rate in SCE&amp;G's electric territory is estimated at 4.7%.
At the top of Slide 8 you can see the South Carolina employment statistics as of December 2015 and 2014.
Over the course of 2015 South Carolina's unemployment rate has dropped over a percentage point from its level at the end of 2014.
December of 2015 also marked all-time highs for the number of South Carolinians employed and in the labor force.
Of particular interest and attesting to our state's strong economic growth almost 80 000 or 3.8% more South Carolinians are working today than a year ago.
Said another way had the labor force not increased during 2015 the unemployment rate would be approximately 3%.
The expansion of the labor force is simply evidence of the confidence of some of the workforce to re-enter the market and the positive migration to the State of South Carolina.
As depicted on the bottom of the slide United Van Lines recently released its annual mover study for 2015 which tracks migration patterns state to state.
For the third consecutive year South Carolina finished ranked second in terms of domestic migration destinations corroborating our realized customer growth statistics.
North Carolina has also been ranked in the Top 5 for the last three years.
Slide 9 presents customer growth and electric sales statistics.
On the top half of the slide is the customer growth rate for each of our regulated businesses.
SCE&amp;G's electric business added customers at a year-over-year rate of 1.5%.
Our regulated gas businesses in North and South Carolina added customers at a rate of 2.5% and 2.7% respectively.
We continue to see very strong customer growth in our businesses and in the region.
The bottom table outlines our actual and weather-normalized kilowatt hour sales for the 12 months ended December 31 2015.
Overall weather-normalized total retail sales are up 1.3% on a 12-month ended basis.
In conjunction with the continued improvement of economic conditions in South Carolina the past two quarters have shown an accelerating improvement in usage in the residential market.
And now please turn to Slide 10 which recaps our regulator rate base and returns.
The pie chart on the left presents the components of our regulated rate base of approximately $9.6 billion.
As denoted in the two shades of blue approximately 86% of this rate base is related to the electric business.
In the block on the right you will see SCE&amp;G's base electric business in which we are allowed a 10.25% return on equity.
The earned return for the 12 months ended December 31 2015 in the base electric business is approximately 9.75% meeting our stated goal of earning a return of 9% or higher to prevent the need for non-BLRA-related base rate increases during the peak nuclear construction years.
We continue to be pleased with the execution of our strategy.
As a reminder we're allowed a return on equity of 10.25% and 10.6% in our LDCs in South and North Carolina respectively.
In response to the normal attrition and the earned returns in our North Carolina business yesterday PSNC notified the North Carolina Utilities Commission of its intention to file a rate case.
We plan to file the detailed case within the next 60 days where more clarity will be provided.
As you will recall in South Carolina if the earned ROE of the gas business for the 12 months ending in March falls outside a range of 50 basis points above or below the allowed ROE then we will file to adjust rates under the Rate Stabilization Act in June.
Slide 11 presents our CapEx forecast.
This forecast reflects the Company's current estimate of New Nuclear spending through 2018 and has been updated to reflect what was filed in our quarterly BLRA report which also reflects the amended EPC that was announced in October 2015.
At the bottom of the slide we recap the estimated New Nuclear CWIP from July 1 through June 30 to correspond to the periods on which the BLRA rate increases are historically calculated.
Slide 12 presents the transition payments information and an expected timeframe for our filing with the Public Service Commission of South Carolina.
Once these events are complete we will update the CapEx schedule and the corresponding financing plan.
And now please turn to Slide 13 to review our estimated financing plan through 2018.
As a reminder we have switched to open rocket purchases instead of issuing new shares to fulfill our 401(k) and DRIP plans at least until we have fully utilized the net cash proceeds from the sales of CGT and SCI.
We do not anticipate the need for further equity issuances until 2017.
And again the election of the fixed price option would likely change planned equity issuances after 2016.
While these are our best estimates of incremental debt and equity issuances it is unlikely these issuances will occur in the exact amounts or timing as presented as they are subject to changes in our funding needs for planned project expenses.
We continued to adjust the financing to match the related project CapEx on a 50/50 debt and equity basis.
On Slide 14 we are reaffirming our 2016 GAAP Adjusted Weather Normalized earnings guidance as $3.90 per share to $4.10 per share with an internal target of $4 per share.
We continue to be cautiously optimistic about our long-term view and are increasing the lower band of our long-term growth rate from 3% to 4%.
We are also resetting our base year to 2015 GAAP Adjusted Weather Normalized EPS of $3.73.
Therefore our new GAAP Adjusted Weather Normalized annual growth guidance target will be to deliver 4% to 6% earnings growth over the three to five years using a base of 2015 GAAP Adjusted Weather Normalized EPS of $3.73.
This increase represents our projected earnings momentum driven by our BLRA filings our stated goal to manage base retail electric returns and our view of the economy balanced with our continued assumption of the impacts of energy conservation and efficiency standards.
I also wanted to mention that earlier today we announced an increase of $0.12 in our annual dividend rate for 2016 to $2.30 per share a 5.5% increase.
We continue to anticipate growing dividends fairly consistent with earnings while staying within our stated pay-out policy of 55% to 60%.
And finally on Slide 15 we are very pleased to report that in late December we successfully completed the syndication of an expanded and extended credit facility.
The additional liquidity is important to our nuclear construction project and accelerated CapEx spending at PSNC.
The committed lines of credit now total $2 billion.
I would like to thank our banks for their enthusiastic support of our liquidity needs and therefore the support of our nuclear expansion plans.
We are pleased that we continue to receive an excellent response for our nuclear construction from our equity and debt investors as well as our banks.
And I'll now turn the call over to Steve to provide an update on our nuclear project.
Thanks Jimmy.
I'd like to begin by addressing the status of the settlement with the Consortium.
Slide 16 presents the outline we have shown in previous discussions as a recap.
As you may be aware Westinghouse closed on the transaction to acquire Stone &amp; Webster from CB&amp;I at the end of December and Fluor began work as a subcontracted construction manager at the New Nuclear construction-site on January 4.
We continue our analysis of the fixed price option and will include input from Fluor as they progress.
As a reminder we have until November 1 of this year to unilaterally elect the fixed price option or not.
And we plan to take as much time as needed to insure that we make the most prudent decision.
Regardless of which scenario we choose once a decision has been made we will file a petition with the Public Service Commission to amend the capital cost and schedule for the project.
As Jimmy said earlier we expect to reach a conclusion in the second quarter.
Moving on to some of the activities at the New Nuclear construction-site Slide 17 presents an aerial photo of the site from September of 2015.
I've provided this photo to give you a view of the layout of the site.
And I've labeled both Units 2 &amp; 3 as well as many other areas that make up what we call the table top.
On Slide 18 you can see a picture of the Unit 2 Nuclear Island.
In this picture you can see Module CA20 on the right hand side of the slide along the containment vessel Ring Number 1 which was placed on and welded to the lower bowl.
Several of the large structural modules have now been placed inside the Unit 2 containment vessel.
As we will discuss shortly you can also see the beginnings of the shield building as three courses have now been placed.
Slide 19 shows a picture of the Unit 3 Nuclear Island.
Module CA04 was placed inside the containment vessel lower bowl back in June and the auxiliary building walls continue to go further.
As you'll see shortly we are making progress with the fabrication and placement of containment vessel structural modules on both units.
Slide 20 presents a schematic view of the five large structural modules that are located inside the containment vessel.
I've shown this schematic numerous times before because this expanded view gives you a better feel for how CA01 through CA05 fit spatially inside the containment vessel.
As we you may know we have now placed CA01 CA04 and CA05 for Unit 2 and CA04 for Unit 3.
Slide 21 shows a picture of the Unit 2 CA02 module.
CA02 is a wall section that forms part of the unit containment refueling water storage tank.
As mentioned last quarter CA02 is now structurally complete and awaiting installation.
Slide 22 shows a picture of the Unit 2 CA03 which is the west wall of the unit containment refueling water storage tank.
15 of CA03s 17 sub-modules are on-site and 12 are now on their assembly platform.
Slide 23 shows a picture of the Unit 3 module CA05.
This module comprises one of the major wall sections within the containment vessel.
Fabrication on the Unit 3 CA05 has been completed and it has been staged outside the modular assembly building or MAB.
Slide 24 shows a picture of the Unit 3 CA20 which is the auxiliary building module that will be located outside and adjacent to the containment vessel.
68 of the 72 sub-modules are on-site and 20 of those sub-modules have been upended on the construction platform or flattened for fabrication in the MAB.
Slide 25 shows a picture of the beginnings of the Unit 3 module CA01.
Module CA01 houses the steam generators and the pressurizer and forms a refueling canal inside the containment vessel.
Currently we have 15 of the 47 sub-modules on-site and three of those sub-modules are upright and being welded together in the MAB.
Slide 26 shows the progress of the placement of the Unit 2 shield building panels.
The first six-panel course was placed during the first half of 2015.
During the fourth quarter of 2015 the second six-panel course was set on top of the first course.
And at the beginning of this month we placed the third six-panel course.
As the shield building panels are placed and welded together concrete is poured inside the panels to create the shield building.
Concrete has been placed in the first two courses.
Slide 27 shows a couple of pictures from the Unit 2 turbine pedestal concrete placement from December of 2015.
Overall more than 2 300 cubic yards of concrete was placed over the course of about 20 hours.
Slide 28 shows a picture of the single phase for the 230-ton Unit 2 main transformers.
There are four such transformers for each unit.
And here you can see one of the four being rigged for placement adjacent to the Unit 2 turbine building.
Each unit will have these four plus six other transformers.
All 10 of them in place for Unit 2 and all 10 have been received for Unit 3.
On Slide 29 you'll see the New Nuclear CapEx actual and projected over the life of the construction.
This chart shows CWIP during the years 2008 to 2020 reflecting the Q4 of 2015 BLRA quarterly report that we filed in February.
As a reminder the BLRA report now reflects the cost from the October 2015 amended EPC.
As you can see we're currently in the middle of the peak nuclear construction period.
The green line represents the related actual and projected customer rate increases under the BLRA and is associated with the right-hand axis.
Please now turn to Slide 30.
As we mentioned during our third-quarter call in September the PSC approved a rate increase of $64.5 million.
The new rates were effective for bills rendered on and after October 30.
Our BLRA filings for 2016 are shown at the bottom of the slide.
And as you can see we recently filed our quarterly status report for the fourth quarter and our next quarterly update will be filed in mid May.
Not depicted here but in the update filing I addressed earlier the timing of that petition isn't yet known.
Finally I wanted to mention the results of an analysis performed at the direction of the South Carolina Office of Regulatory Staff.
As you may be aware the ORS contracted an independent accounting firm to determine whether the revised rate provision under the Base Load Review Act is cost-beneficial to SCE&amp;G customers consistent with our claims.
This independent attestation and concluded in January and reaffirmed the significant cost advantage of the BLRA as envisioned when the law was originally passed.
This report is available on the ORS's Web site and a link to the independent accounting firm's report can be found in the regulatory document section of the Nuclear Development area of SCANA's Investor Web site.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll now be glad to respond to any questions you might have.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jim von Riesemann of Mizuho Securities.
Please go ahead.
A couple questions on the 4% to 6% growth rate can you just elaborate again on how that's calculated? How we should think about the out years? Because if somebody were to do a linear analysis 2016 would be less than the 4% if you are just growing 2016 versus 2015 did I make sense or have I been on too many conference calls today? The first part of your question made sense.
So how we calculate it is the average of the annual increases over that three- to five-year period.
So we're comfortable that that average growth in our plan today is at that 4% to 6% level.
Now the second part I'm not sure I followed.
Yes I don't think I followed it either.
But it's just really to get to 2016 versus 2015 because you're not on a 4% plain year over year especially with your guidance of $4.
You are saying it’s above it right? Yes.
Yes and so -- but that's why we consider it over the entire period not just any one year.
So every year wouldn't necessarily be within that cone but overall the average would be.
Okay that I understand.
So the question then becomes with the fixed price option and your updated CapEx on the slides how much of that is reflective -- is anything reflected in I guess either your growth rate or for the fixed price option in your CapEx or even your earnings growth rate? So the CapEx is based upon the amended agreement.
It does not include the fixed price option.
And that's what our growth rate is based upon.
I'm not sure that if we were to adopt that option that it would have a material impact on the earnings growth rate.
But if we do later this year and if it's approved we will certainly consider that.
Okay.
And then I guess I have a question on bonus depreciation.
Sure.
Previously that was about 75 million a year.
Have you updated those numbers given the tax extenders from December? Yes that still is a good reference the 75 million a year in the base business.
And of course what's different now is the five-year view; so we have not had that in the past.
So there's obviously the potential for the New Nuclear units themselves to qualify for bonus depreciation.
Although not at the 50% level because it phases down to 40% and 30% in 2018 and 2019 respectively so that's the only thing that's outside that $75 million estimate.
Okay.
And then I guess the last question really maybe is for Steve.
How -- if you think about all of the components to build the two summer units how much of them are still say overseas and still need to be shipped to the place? Or are most of the components on-site at this point in time? A majority of the major components are on-site.
I would say about 85% and the remainder would be either overseas or domestic production.
Of the major components left outstanding that would be overseas -- let's see one of the -- we've got two steam generators in Tucson.
One of those is being shipped; the other one is nearing completion.
I think all of the turbine generator stuff is on-site condenser stuff is on-site containment is on-site.
We've got a couple of passive heat exchangers that are being reworked in Italy.
Those should be finished shortly.
We had cone pumps; those are domestic but those won't show up until 2017.
That's most of the major stuff.
Now when we get into sub-modules we still have some of the sub-modules for the structural modules particularly for the trailing unit Unit 3.
They are still in fabrication.
And so for example CA01 is being fabricated between Toshiba in Japan and IHI in Japan.
There are 47 different sub-modules that are associated with the unit.
15 have been delivered 15 of the 47.
Seven have shipped.
It just takes awhile for them to get here.
And so the 25 are yet to be shipped.
So we've got almost half of those are either on-site or on the ocean.
So I think if I were to categorize it 85% of the major equipment is on-site.
And of the remaining stuff a lot of it is physically complete.
Some of it is waiting to be shipped; some is on the ocean now on its way to our site.
Our next question comes from Julien Dumoulin-Smith of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi this is Mike Weinstein a couple of questions.
One did you say what was causing the drop-off in industrial growth weather-adjusted? No I really didn't address that.
It's not a significant change just showing down there about 0.5%.
The one thing that makes it difficult to really address this quarter is as you'll probably remember from the national news is we had a historic flood in central South Carolina.
And there was an extensive impact on our industrial customers -- everything from as simple as logistics of workers not being able to get to plants to industrial intakes malfunctioning because of the extremely high water to impacts on rail.
So it's really difficult to quantify that so I'm not too alarmed by one period here of slightly down.
Okay.
And what's causing the steep drop in SCE&amp;G's on the gas side on its ROE versus PSNC.
Which when you look at the September numbers there's almost no change in North Carolina but South Carolina really seems to have come off.
Yes it's a function of obviously the rate base additions as well as the operating cost et cetera involved in the units and as well as the timing.
I believe the South Carolina number is as of September 30 and the PSNC number is I believe at December 31.
We just haven't filed the South Carolina report yet so we haven't updated that one.
All right that makes sense.
And on the nuclear side the CapEx looks like it's about $200 million higher in the peak spending years 2017 and 2018.
And it seems to flow through right into the CWIP.
And I'm just wondering does that mean that -- does that result in higher BLRA rate increases going forward? And is that a result of the new -- that's all as a result of the settlement right? Yes so the CapEx numbers haven't changed at all from what we presented in the third quarter.
And this assumes just the amended agreement not the fixed price option.
All that's changed is the timing of when they occur in this presentation Michael so that's really the only adjustment.
Okay it's just a timing issue.
Yes.
Okay all right and I guess thank you.
Our next question comes from Travis Miller of Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
You mentioned the second quarter wanted to make the decision then on the fixed price option.
Wondered if you could give me a timeline and thoughts on why you wouldn't wait until November? And then secondly if you do make that decision in the second quarter what's the regulatory schedule look like from that point? Let me start and then let Steve jump in.
So we said that it's likely to be Q2.
That's our best judgment.
But Steve also said in the opening comments that we have until November.
And if we think we need all that time we will take all that time.
So we're just giving you our most likely estimate of when we think we'll have a good assessment of Fluor's input et cetera to make that call.
And at the point that we feel like we have that and have our information together we'll make a filing with the Public Service Commission.
And then they have their statutory six months to rule on that.
And ballpark sometime in the middle of that six months we would be before them to present our information to ask for their support.
Travis this is Steve.
One train of thought would be take as long as you've got to make the decision which we fully understand.
But we did in an ex parte fashion brief our Public Service Commission on the two options that we would have going forward.
And what we told them was as soon as we were complete with our evaluation we would come back to them with the option that we selected.
So we intend to do that.
One complicator that you might not see that makes my life a little more difficult is that in the interim I have to sort of keep two sets of books.
So I have to base assumptions on both where we're exercising the fixed price option and we're not exercising the fixed price option.
And if we're going to exercise one or the other it's a lot simpler for me -- I can drop the other set of the books.
So it takes all kinds of commercial issues off the table and just makes our lives a lot easier.
So you briefed the regulators.
Has there been any conversation or interaction with interveners or other groups that you think might have opposition to say the fixed price option or at least a preference to one or the other? Yes we've done a number of briefings some of which were public.
We did a briefing for the legislature for example.
We've done briefings with the governor's Nuclear Advisory Council.
And some of the interveners were present during the ex parte briefing we had last November with the Public Service Commission.
But there was no interaction with them at that point in time.
So we have and will continue to have some interactions but we don't know who all of the interveners might be until we file something.
And then they're given the opportunity to intervene.
So it's not a surprise but we won't have any more conversation with our Public Service Commission until we make a filing.
We aren't allowed to have any conversation with them about the topic.
Our next question comes from Steven Byrd of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
I wanted to just talk about Toshiba for a moment.
Toshiba has been in the press of late.
And at a high level just wanted to understand as you think about their credit position and safeguards and protections for you how should we think about ways that you can receive protection against potential deterioration in credit quality at Toshiba? Yes well let me just talk briefly about some contract provisions in a conceptual form and then I'll let Steve talk some operationally about the project.
So we do have some security provisions in the contract if their ratings fall below a certain grade and they have triggered those now.
And we have initiated that security.
And for confidentiality reasons I'm just not going to get into the details of what that is how much it is et cetera.
But it's essentially meant to handle any kind of payment obligations were they not to be able to pay subcontractors things of that nature.
As well as performance obligations if they don't live up to their terms of the contract so that's kind of the financial construct that's in the contract that we have pulled the trigger on.
And I'll just let Steve talk a little about the project itself.
Yes we've been tracking the situation at Toshiba.
Obviously a very large company I think the Japanese government would be loath to see them fail.
But they have submitted obviously a restructuring plan.
We were heartened to see in their restructuring plan that they intend to stay in the energy business.
While they do intend to shed some of their business lines they are going to stay in the energy business which would include nuclear so that's a good thing for us.
Also we are glad to see that with the significant changes in leadership and the board at Toshiba that the person that we have been largely dealing with in the nuclear arena survived that turmoil.
And again we think that's a good thing.
I do believe that Toshiba has been successful at securing some debt from some large Japanese banks just recently.
Bankruptcy also doesn't necessarily mean that things would stop.
There are various kinds of bankruptcies.
Not that we think it will get to that point but it doesn't necessarily mean things at the site will stop.
And in addition to the sort of the financial protections that Jimmy just alluded to we did actually forecast a situation like this back when we were negotiating the EPC contract.
Not necessarily that we thought that the larger corporation Toshiba might have financial difficulties.
But we were really focusing on perhaps the smaller corporations like Westinghouse and/or Shaw might have some financial difficulties.
So we do have in the contract some provisions to escrow intellectual properties such that if there were to be a succession of operations by the contractor that we could finish the plant on our own.
And just shifting over to the Sanmen project in China just wondered if you had any update there in terms of the status of Sanmen? I don't have any recent updates on Sanmen.
We have a team that's supposed to go over there I think it's in the April or May timeframe.
So we'll get more firsthand information then.
My understanding is that we still anticipate that Sanmen 1 will come online sometime this year.
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Weisel of Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Two questions first one is about the new long-term growth rate.
Could you maybe talk outside of whether a major pick-up in the economy what are some factors that could potentially take you to or above the high-end of that 6% level? Yes I think the largest kind of at-risk variable from a positive or a negative standpoint Andrew is probably what happens with usage on electric on the electric side unrelated to weather.
So what goes on in that area I mean it's obviously related to the economy but what do people do with everyday electric consumption? And that's been very difficult for our industry to model the last several years.
It flattened out and was slightly up for us in 2015.
That surprised us in a good way a little.
But that continues to be the most difficult thing for us to model.
Anything on the capital side obviously the nuclear CapEx estimates are constantly being adjusted.
But anything in the base business that might get you like I said toward or above the high-end? Or potentially anything that can go wrong that would take you below that low-end? We feel pretty good about our CapEx plan.
I mean setting aside the New Nuclear as you said in your question which has the dynamic adjustment due to the project.
We are doing in the base business the things we need to do to have safe reliable power.
But we aren't doing a great deal of things beyond that in order to maintain no base rate increases during this period or pressure on returns if we were not to have increases.
PSNC is probably the biggest story outside of that with the growth in that area particularly in the transmission area.
And of course we said earlier that we filed yesterday a notice of a pending rate increase there.
But that is fairly well laid out.
That could change some based upon price of steel and compression and that kind of thing over time.
But I don't expect it to vary a great deal.
And then my other question is about the dividend.
Obviously a bigger increase today than what we've seen in the past few years.
And that takes you right to the midpoint of your targeted pay-out ratio if we assume the midpoint of the EPS guidance.
Going forward should we expect the dividend to grow more of that kind of 5% range which is the midpoint of the EPS growth? Or would it be more likely to revert back to the 3% or 4% range like what we've seen in the past several years? Yes if you'll bear with me let me give you 30 seconds of history here.
When the recession hit and earnings slowed a great deal we got outside of our pay-out policy of 55% to 60%.
We got up close to 65% -- 63% to 65%.
We continued to grow dividends during those next few years but we grew them at about half the rate of earnings growth so that we could get back within the policy.
And now we're comfortably back within the policy and our position at this point is we expect to grow those dividends fairly consistent with earnings growth.
Our next question comes from Dan Jenkins with The State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
Please go ahead.
So first of all I was just curious on your financing plan for 2016 you show about $1 billion for SCE&amp;G.
I was wondering if you could give any insight as to the timing would that be like throughout the year or first half second half? Yes so today we would model in roughly half of it about mid-year and half of it near the end of the year.
That is definitely going to need to be dynamically adjusted to which option we end up electing and the payment schedule that goes along with that that we've talked about on the last call as well as briefly on this one.
So that's really going to cause adjustments in that schedule.
So I'm fairly sure it will adjust from this but today's best guess is about half mid-year and about half near the end of the year.
Going to the nuclear unit and in particular I looked through the report you just filed for the fourth-quarter report.
And in particular it mentioned how the shield building is one of the primary critical path of things -- items that's potentially could I guess -- some of those modules you're having trouble with or whatever.
So I was wondering if you could expand on that and what the timing is you think when that item will be able to be resolved? Yes I think the shield building items -- when you say resolved I think we resolved most of our shield building issues there.
The biggest issue that we had really was they anticipated that the fit-up of this first-of-a-kind items taking these individual panels that come from Newport News Industrial or NNI and then putting them together at the site welding them up within the tolerances and then filling them with concrete -- was going to be very difficult.
We've done a lot of mock-ups.
We've received probably half the panels for the first unit and maybe 25% for the second unit.
The placement so far ought to be categorized as going a little better than we had anticipated.
So we've got 16 courses of steel panels that go in a ring that we eventually will fill with concrete.
We've placed the first three of those courses already.
The first two have been welded fit and we poured concrete in.
And the third course we recently placed so we're welding that.
But again that's going I think better than we had anticipated.
So now our focus since that is the critical path is insuring that we get the sub-modules the pieces the panels from NNI in a timely fashion.
So Westinghouse has taken over the contract that CB&amp;I used to have so that's now exclusively a Westinghouse-to-NNI deal which we think is good.
And then the delivery schedule looks to be good.
And they're negotiating a mitigation strategy.
And in effect I'll be going to NNI tomorrow to talk through the mitigation strategy that will accelerate some of those panel deliveries to the site.
So I think the shield building right now it's going pretty well.
But it is our focus area because it is critical path.
And then similarly it talks a little bit about secondary critical paths being the CA20 and CA01 for Unit 3.
Are those like parallel paths to the shield building issues or are they dependent on the shield building path? No Dan not necessarily dependent on the shield building.
But they would come in right in line after the shield building.
So once we demonstrate proficiency with shield building then you focus on whatever is next.
So we're always looking at primary secondary tertiary critical paths.
So the secondary critical path is as you mentioned that CA20 module for the trailing Unit 3.
We've already set CA20 for Unit 2 obviously.
And we did come up with an interesting mitigation strategy for the CA20 module whereas on the first unit on Unit 2 we set it as one piece.
On the second one we're going to set it in two halves.
And so that will save us probably a couple of months in the fabrication.
And that's important because it actually forms a part of the concrete form work for the rest of the plant.
So it's important that we set that half of that and use it as a form concrete while we're working on the second half and then set the second half.
So as of right now I thought that that was -- that the team on-site came up with that plan we're executing on that plan and we ought to set that first half CA20 for the second unit in Q1 late Q1.
And then we should set the second half of CA20 for Unit 3 probably early in Q2.
And somewhat related to that it mentions on -- I don't know if you have the report in front of you -- on page 15 of it in the middle of it kind of related to the CA01 and CA20.
That on the current schedule the date doesn't support the construction schedule for the units so how is that being impacted in the overall schedule? How should we think about that? How much can that be mitigated? Yes I think a good example of mitigation is the plan that we came up with to split the CA20 module into two halves.
And CA01 we're looking at similar things there.
We're looking to expedite the delivery of the sub-modules from IHI and Toshiba in Japan.
Toshiba obviously has all the incentive in the world under the agreement that we negotiated in October to expedite whatever they can.
So they both have -- since they're the parent company of Westinghouse there are both penalties if they don't do things on time and there are significant bonus incentives if they do finish on time.
So they've got as much incentive as we could possibly put into an agreement.
So we'll look to accelerate the schedule for the modules coming out of Japan for CA01.
And we're implementing a strategy to split CA20 set it in two halves instead of one large piece [indiscernible] CA20 portion.
Our next question comes from Jonathan Reeder of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
One quick point of clarity so if Fluor's assessment of the schedule comes back that the current schedule isn't kind of feasible how does that work then? Do you have to then negotiate another amended EPC contract before you would file that with the Commission so that the benchmarks the milestones are set appropriately in the next kind of approved BLRA? Jonathan I think the short answer is it depends on how far out they are.
If you'll remember with our last order from the Public Service Commission we had a plus 18 months for each of the milestones.
So as long as we stay within that 18 months we don't need to go back in on the schedule.
So really it's going to depend on how far.
But what I more envision is that Fluor might come back and say -- in order to get the schedule on time you have to accelerate this you might have to bring in more resources than we have in the current plan.
So where we think we're going to peak at say 4 000 craft employees they might come back and say -- you need to get 4 500 craft employees.
And that kind of an input might drive us towards opting for the fixed price because more people mean more dollars.
Right so that would impact I guess the non-fixed price option and probably lend more credibility towards selecting the fixed price.
That's the way to think about it? Correct.
Our next question comes from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
A couple of nuts and bolts questions on the gas side of the business.
First of all at PSNC if you filed later this Spring when would rates go into effect? I forget is that a 6- or a 12-month process in North Carolina? 6.
Okay.
So rates would go in no later than like January 1 next year.
And that's a historical-looking rate case there or can you do a forward or a big known immeasurable? It's a bit of both.
It's a base historical test year but you can kind of update for CWIP as well as cap structure kind of concurrent with the information being presented and any settlement being discussed or hearing before the Commission.
And on the gas side at SCE&amp;G when would you file under the Rate Stabilization Act to get a revenue increase? When does that normally happen and when would that go into effect? Yes so that runs through the end of the heating season the measurement period through the end of March and we make the filing in May of each year.
And any adjustment either way if we're 50 basis points out would be effective the first of November for the implementation of the typical heating season in the fall although that did not happen this past year.
And then Steve one question I just want to make sure I understood that your comments about Toshiba and some of the financial and credit metric issues Toshiba has.
And you've mentioned that you already started the process with Toshiba to kind of recover some of the security-related funds.
Did you do that because of their downgrades? Did you do that because Toshiba is having issues paying some of the local subcontractors or some of the vendors or suppliers? What was the main driver for starting the process now? Hi Michael this is Jimmy I commented on that earlier so I'll clean it up here.
No that's just procedural.
It's just an option afforded us under the contract.
We've had no issues that we're aware of at all with any subs being paid or anything like that.
Our next question comes from Claire Tse of Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi this is actually David Paz.
Sorry if I missed this earlier.
Does your 4% to 6% EPS growth rate assume any bonus depreciation impact on the New Nuclear units when they come into service in 2019 and 2020? Yes the guidance assumes the bonus depreciation on the base business.
We've really not contemplated yet or modeled exactly what might happen with the bonus depreciation on the new units themselves.
There's a lot of consideration has to go into that along with the production tax credits et cetera to make sure we maximize the value for the customer.
I see.
So it's not -- it essentially hasn't been modeled in the 4% to 6%? Right.
Okay.
Do you happen to know or can I find somewhere in the BLRA filings what the cumulative costs for Unit 2 would be through 2019 as you currently stand today? Well on the amended contract it's about -- the total price of the units is about $7.1 billion so you can roughly estimate 50% of that.
Okay.
David are you looking for what’s been spent to-date? Well not just to-date but obviously you have the BLRAs by year.
But if I knew just what Unit 2's portion was through that 2019 that's what I was trying to get a more exact number.
But obviously I can ballpark it.
Yes.
We’ve not broken it out between Unit 2 and Unit 3 so yes you’d have to ballpark it.
And then just can you go through the process for how each unit goes into rate base? Like is there a formal filing with the PSC when each unit is completed? How is that process? So what we do is we have to prepare a projected operating cost-year if you will so an implementation year.
The first phase of the BLRA is to get the plans approved.
The second phase happens each year are the revised rates.
And the third is the operating cost going in.
And so we'll have to project what the depreciation and the operating costs et cetera are.
And that does not require a hearing.
It just requires us to present it to the Office of Regulatory Staff and to the Commission like we do the revised rates each year.
Our next question comes from Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
Please go ahead.
I wanted to touch base with you on the last question there on the BLRA and the bonus depreciation.
It sounds like you guys were trying to -- that you were analyzing the PTC and the impact of taking bonus and what have you.
And I'm just trying to get a sense as to what that process is kind of like and sort of some of the factors that sort of go around that if you follow me? And how that might change the 4% to 6% potentially? Well the only real impact is likely to be just on financing itself and any temporary benefits on financing.
I mean bonus depreciation is simply accelerating a deduction that you're going to get at some point in the future to an earlier point in time.
So you aren't going to change your total taxes per books because you're going to change your deferred taxes.
So if you end up with a larger deferred tax credit because of the bonus depreciation you're going to end up with lower rate base there in the short run.
But in the very short run it's just going to have some financing benefits to it just like the bonus depreciation does on the base business.
Well that's what I was wondering.
I'm just wondering whether or not -- I mean I understand that.
I guess what I'm wondering is is there any potential impact in the near term if the bonus depreciation was factored into it? In other words how should we think about the potential sensitivity in the near term if bonus depreciation which my understanding is not being factored in now if it were to come in can you give us any rule of thumb or thought process as to if there would be impact and what that impact might be? No we're talking about something that would potentially be a cash impact in the second half of 2019 so I don't really see any near-term impact on it.
Okay.
So in other words if the bonus depreciation there's no potential for it to take -- it would happen then regardless it wouldn't be happening any time earlier in terms of your analysis? That’s right.
That’s correct.
Okay thanks so much for the clarity.
And then just finally on the sales growth I believe you guys in your last IRP were around 1.4% for retail sales growth I think just over the long period.
Is that still pretty much what you guys are looking at? Yes we’re going to be filing a new IRP what in the next few weeks Steve? Yes.
Within the next two weeks.
And we were just reviewing a draft of that earlier this week and I don't think where we are at at this point is materially different.
But we'll be filing that in the next few weeks.
Our next question comes from Mitchell Moss of Lord Abbett.
Please go ahead.
Mitchell we can’t hear you.
Sorry about that.
Okay.
Okay good.
Just to follow-up on some of the questions on Toshiba's credit ratings and downgrades.
In terms of next steps if there are further downgrades for Toshiba is there a -- is it kind of like incremental steps of if there's a single -- if Toshiba's rating moves down one more notch there's sort of one or two more steps? Or is there sort of Toshiba has to fall several rating notches from here before you guys would need to I guess do further action regarding taking any security actions? Right so the contractual security provisions I mentioned earlier are binary.
Their ratings meet the criteria for us to elect those or they don't.
And they've met those so there's no further impacts there's no graded scale or anything.
Okay.
So the ratings where they're at now you haven't needed to take any -- there haven't been any security provisions activated or there have been? There have not been in the past we recently initiated those and they have 60 days for those to be fulfilled.
Okay.
And those are all of the provisions once fulfilled.
Okay.
And just on a more of a technical question your Slide 13 I believe yes Slide 13 shows debt refinancings at SCANA in 2018 are 170 million utility is 550.
Last quarter you had combined it at about 720 all that SCANA and so I just wanted to find out to better understand I see the 550 in terms of just that at the utility I just want those understand 170 million of SCANA debt is? Yes that relates to the South Carolina Generating Company.
But it's one plant that operates solely for SCE&amp;G.
All the power goes to SCE&amp;G.
So it's a separately financed plant but it's solely related to -- we call it GenCo -- South Carolina Generating Company.
Okay.
So it's not really a holding company debt.
That’s right but it technically is a subsidiary of SCANA and that’s the reason we presented it that way.
And this concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Jimmy Addison for any closing remarks.
Well.
Thank you so far this has been a very eventful and productive year and we're excited about the new arrangement with Westinghouse and Fleur.
We continue to focus on the new nuclear construction and on operating all of our businesses in a safe and reliable manner.
We thank you all for joining us today and for your interest in SCANA.
Have a good afternoon.
The conference has now concluded.
We thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Have a great day.