Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Service Corporation International Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Ragina and I will be your operator today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to SCI management.
Good morning.
This is Debbie Young Director of Investor Relations at SCI.
Thanks for joining us this morning as we talk about our first quarter results.
Let me just briefly read our Safe Harbor language.
In our comments today we will make statements that are not historical facts and are forward-looking.
These statements are based on assumptions that we believe are reasonable.
However there are many important factors that could cause our actual results in the future to differ materially from these forward-looking statements.
For more information related to these statements and other risk factors please review our periodic filings with the SEC that are available on our website.
Also on the call today we may use terms such as normalized EPS or normalized or adjusted cash flow.
These are of course non-GAAP financial terms.
Please see our press release and 8-K that were issued yesterday where we had provided a detailed reconciliation for these measures to the appropriate GAAP term.
And with that I’ll begin with our President and CEO Tom Ryan.
Thank you Debbie and thanks everybody for joining us on the call today.
I am excited to report that we started off the year with strong results that exceeded both external expectations as well as our internal expectations for earnings per share and for cash.
We reported a normalized earnings per share of $0.17 versus $0.13 in the prior year quarter.
This is the growth of $0.04 per share or some 31%.
This quarter-over-quarter improvement was primarily driven by four things.
First the acquisition contribution from our Keystone businesses.
Remember we closed Keystone on March 26 of last year there really wasn't in our result until the second quarter of 2010.
Secondly positive comparable funeral volume.
I never thought I'd say that but I am and very proud to say that had a very positive impact on the quarter.
The third item was higher cemetery preneed sales production which again we've seen some trends of that past quarters that continued in the first quarter of this year.
And lastly we had higher trust fund impact.
Now I am going to shift to talk a little more detail about the funeral operations.
In the first quarter our comparable funeral revenues we reported was $379 million which is a growth rate of 4.3% or some $15.6 million.
This was driven by the same-store volume which was up 1% for the quarter and this was a trend which began in the last two months of 2010 and continued really through February of this year.
March was a bit softer and we have to believe that this was generally caused by the severe weather we experienced in the winter and actually experiencing right now unfortunately and a dissipated impact on the volumes associated with the stronger flu season.
In Q1 our funeral average grew 1.9% which takes into account higher trust fund income and a positive Canadian currency effect.
Excluding these favorable impacts we experienced a growth of 0.9% quarter-over-quarter which was in line with our expectations.
This growth in overall average occurred despite the 230 basis points decrease in cremation.
This increase is larger than what we typically have seen in any given period but remember it's only three months.
I don't think this is something to overreact to.
Keep in mind that last year the cremation rate only grew at 70 basis points.
So this can be volatile and again we'll continue to monitor but it did have an impact on this quarter because while we saw a healthy increase in the burial average this quarter it was offset as all of the increase in the cremation mix during the quarter really fell to the direct cremation category for us.
That put pressure on the overall average.
Also aiding the increase in funeral revenue was higher G&amp;A revenue of $5.4 million on increased production as well as a continuing shift to an insurance fund product.
From a profitability standpoint comparable funeral profits increased $9 million and the margins grew 140 basis points.
This is what you'd expect on a revenue increase of $15.6 million or about 60% drops to the bottom line.
We managed our cost well and the revenue increases are reflected in the margin but slightly offset by increased selling costs of $4.2 million from higher preneed production in the current quarter.
Remember that the cost recognized immediately in the period incurred while the revenue is deferred and delivered.
Our reported preneed funeral sales declined 1.2% or roughly $1.5 million for the quarter.
Included in these results is a one-time adjustment of $7.3 million to reflect insurance cancellations that occurred in November and December of last year that did not get reported as we transitioned the new system.
As this adjustment does not have a GAAP impact remember insurance funded contracts are even on our balance sheet we chose to run it through the first quarter period for reporting purposes.
If you exclude the out of period cancellation adjustment we actually grew preneed funeral sales by 4.8% or $5.8 million.
But it is fair then when you look back at 2010 we’d originally reported a 10% increase which after incorporating this adjustment we still grew preneed funeral sales last year some 8.4% and we continue to demonstrate that we can grow preneed funeral sales in the low to mid single digit range.
In 2009 we had a 3.2% growth 2010 8.4% and again in the first quarter growth of about 5%.
And we expect this trend to continue.
As far as the revenue goes when you think about the rest of the quarters remember that Q2 last year had a benefit of tax changes in Canada which generated lot of sales.
So it’s is going to be difficult comp for us I think in the second quarter.
Having said that remember sales fell off in Q3.
So we’d expect to get a lot of that back as we enter the back of the year and the softness that we experienced in the Canadian operations associated with preneed sales.
Now I’m going to shift to cemetery operations.
Our comparable cemetery revenue increased $10 million or 6.2% quarter-over-quarter.
This was mainly attributable to increased cemetery sales production and higher trust fund income.
Our comparable preneed sales production in cemetery grew $15.1 million in the quarter or some 16.1%.
Recognition rates were down some 10% but we had the impact of some of the revenue that’s going to come in future periods which we bore all of the costs in the current period.
This growth as you can expect 16% growth and again a lot less payments of 10% is really happening as we radiate outside of our cemetery.
As we grow cemetery sales we’re moving farther and farther away from the property and this growth tend to have lower down payment and is beginning to work.
So I view this a very very positive trend and as we collect those dollars in future periods those revenues will flow through our profit statement in having those selling costs associated with them the way that our GAAP accounting works.
Another exciting part cemetery trust fund income increased $2.4 million quarter-over-quarter it came in a little ahead of our expectation.
Despite the increases in revenues cemetery profits declined $1 million for the quarter margins dropped 160 basis points.
Let me just address the key factors here because we had a number of unusual items that impacted our results and when isolated shows that the cemetery segment margin were actually pretty good.
Within our margins this time we had $1.2 million of higher selling compensation on unrecognized revenues.
So the point I made before we sold some things in the backlog recognized the selling costs but don’t have the revenue shift.
That’s about $1.2 million in our profit stream.
We had an additional item that relates to property.
We had two very large sales that occurred in previous periods I think one was in 2007 one in 2009.
We recognized some extraordinary profits on these in California in those periods relating to the land sale.
Now we have to turn around and build the [morgue] as we bid this project competitively.
There is not a lot of profit in the completion of that morgue.
We had about $2.2 million of revenue $2.2 million of cost associated with completing this morgue.
Again this is an unusual item to occur.
So that two negated some of the profitability in the quarter.
And lastly just had some adjustment as it relates to our inventories and again in installing the new system and putting in new cost we have about $1 million impact to that as well.
So excluding these unusual items there is couple more cemetery profits are really –would be above what we would expect on this incremental revenues that came to probably 18% 19%.
These items are expected to be non-recurring and therefore we anticipate that our cemetery cost structure would return to a more normalized levels when you think about how we roll out the rest of 2011.
In conclusion we’re very pleased with our performance for the quarter.
As we look ahead we’re very optimistic about the remainder of 2011.
Again cemetery should benefit as we collect on the less than 10% out sales made during the first quarter.
And we return to a more normalized cost structure which we’d expect to happen beginning next quarter.
We continued to have great cash flow and liquidity our premium sales efforts continued to be very successful.
And remember these are not capital-intensive initiative.
We will deploy our cash to capitalize on the value enhancing opportunities with you.
First and foremost through strategic acquisition at the appropriate returns.
M&amp;A environment has been steadily improving and we’re well positioned to take advantage of that.
In the first quarter we purchased two funeral homes which combined our annual revenues of approximately $6 million and our (inaudible) business.
Secondly we will return cash to shareholders through share repurchase and dividend.
Our current share price we have a free cash flow yield of some 10% or 11% which we believe repurchasing our shares continues to be a prudent use of our capital.
Eric will talk about our investments and share repurchases that we made in the first quarter in just a moment.
And lastly we will reduce liquidity risk and manage our debt maturity profiles.
Finally jut remember the baby boomer impact is coming.
Baby boomers turn 65 this year and every day 10 000 Americans celebrate their birthday.
We believe this will have a very positive effect on our free need programs in the near term.
And towards the latter half of the decade we will begin to see some impact on the (inaudible).
We believe we’re very well positioned to capture differential growth associated with these trends.
This concludes my prepared remarks.
Now I am going to turn it over to Eric.
Good morning.
As Tom just said I’m going to talk about our cash flow and our trust fund performance for the quarter.
Then I’ll briefly discuss our current financial position liquidity and I’ll end with some comments about our cash flow deployment during the quarter.
So let’s start with cash flow.
As you saw in the press release our cash flow from operations for the quarter was about $108 million and this is basically flat to last year but is higher than our internal expectations primarily because of the better than anticipated earnings that Tom just walked you through.
Included in this cash flow number for the quarter was about tax rates funds about $8 million.
And this primarily related to the tax accounting method changes that I had previously described and talked you about on our February conference call.
Excluding these tax refunds the cash flow then declined by approximately $9 million quarter-over-quarter.
And although we had higher EBITDA as we described in slightly lower cash interest in cash tax payments these cash flow benefits were offset our working capital timing differences which by the way that we anticipated in our internal expectations.
And most importantly overall our cash flow operations for the quarter came in slightly better than what we anticipate.
Total CapEx for the quarter as you saw in the release is $25 million as the recurring maintenance and cemetery development CapEx was about $23 million of this amount.
This is generally inline with our expectations and again recall as we discussed in February we will anticipate recurring CapEx to range about $85 million to $95 million for the full year of 2011.
When we deduct our current CapEx that I just mentioned we calculate our free cash flow for the first quarter to be about $85 million.
This is slightly above our expectation even if you exclude the tax refund about $8 million that we received which is included in that $85 million.
And I really want to note something important here again about our free cash flow in the first quarter.
The free cash flow is impacted by the timing of cash interest payments as we know and remind you they are primarily concentrated for SCI in April and in October.
So we want to caution you that using our first quarter free cash flow and annualizing it to a full year amount.
If taken as a full year we still believe our guidance up $235 million to $295 million of free cash flow for full year 2011 is achievable.
And as we said on many occasions that a share price in the middle $11 range this represents a very attractive free cash flow yield in the 10% to 11% range.
Couple of quick income statement items.
Our normalized effective tax rate for the quarter was about 36.4% compared to 36.0% last year.
This is lower than our guidance for the full year of 37% to 38% due to certain discrete items or one-time items positively affecting our effective tax rate in the quarter and it is primarily related to changes in state income tax laws that lowered slightly our state tax rate.
We would still anticipate the full year guidance being above 37% to 38% on a normalized effective tax rate.
Our general and administrative expenses for the quarter as you saw were about $28 million.
These were slightly higher than our original expectations.
Since we talked about this in our February call our stock price has increased about 30% and this affects our long-term incentive plan which is tied to total shareholder return and causes to accrue about $3.5 million in the first quarter above our original expectations.
And again while we can’t predict the total shareholder return for the rest of 2011 at this current share return levels we would possibly accrue only another $3 million in total over the rest of 2011.
Let’s then talk about our trust funds our combined trust fund assets increased by about 3.8% in the first quarter.
This compares to the S&amp;P of about 5.9 – aggregating that up by about 0.4% in the quarter.
So this performance was slightly ahead of our expectations.
The total trust fund income recognized in our income statement for the quarter was $24.4 million which is $3.2 million more than the first quarter of 2010.
This is a little ahead of our expectations on better than anticipated trust fund performance that I just mentioned to you.
At this point our assumptions for the trust fund returns in 2011 remain unchanged.
Recall that we’re assuming that our consolidated trust fund assets will realize an annual positive return in the low single digit percentage range.
And again its measure correlates to the percentage we provided in our press release every quarter and is consistent with the first quarter performance.
Let’s talk about our financial position and our liquidity as well.
Our cash balance at the end of the quarter as you saw was up $210 million.
Today we’re about $175 million in cash on hand and generally the difference in our cash balance is due to about $36 million in cash interest payments that we had in April.
In terms of our credit capacity in March you may have seen that we completed an amended bank credit facility.
This new facility was filed in an 8-K in late March.
This is substantially similar to our previous facility that some other changes are the size and the span of the facility from $400 million to $500 million.
The maturity was extended from November 2013 to March of 2016 and we had slightly better interest rates as well.
We had no borrowings on the $500 million facility but we do use it just report just over $40 million of letters of credit.
At the end of the quarter our total debt was about $1.85 billion.
Our debt maturity profile at the end positions us well to explore value-enhancing opportunity.
And again we’ve no meaningful debt maturities until October 2014 and that amount is right around $180 million.
And really when you look at our near term maturities for 2016 we believe they’re manageable within the levels of normalized free cash flow that we are consistently generating.
Our current leverage continues to be favorable and at the low end of our target range that we’ve discussed on a net debt basis of 3.0 to 3.5 times.
At the end of the quarter we are approximately 3.1 times.
Let’s talk about our capital deployment in the first quarter.
Tom mentioned this that we closed two acquisition during the quarter for a total spend of about $10.5 million that you saw reported on the cash flow statement in investing activity.
During the first quarter we also continued our share repurchase program and repurchased just over $3 million shares for a total investment of just under $29 million.
Subsequent to the end of the quarter we continued and bought about 60 000 shares for about $600 000.
As of today we currently have about $150 million remaining on our existing share repurchase authorization from our Broad of Directors.
Our current shares outstanding are now down to about $238 million.
And really looking back at this our share count peaked in mid-2004 at a little bit more than $337 million.
So our current share count today represent a 30% reduction since that time.
We didn't have any meaningful debt repurchases during the quarter and we’ve purchased about $5 million in the open market but we will continue to repurchase debt in the open market when we believe that the value have been the case is a prudent use of our capital and as Tom mentioned as we continue to manage our near term debt maturity profile.
In conclusion we're very excited about 2011 and we’d like to withstand financially.
We have a strong balance sheet as I mentioned with $175 million of cash with great liquidity great favorable debt maturity profile and attractive free cash flow.
We will continue and intent to use our capital wisely to take advantage of opportunities that ultimately will increase shareholder value.
So with that Ragina I’m going to turn the call back over to you and open it up to questions please.
(Operator Instruction) And gentlemen your first question today comes from the line of John Ransom with Raymond James.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Do you all think that debt rate in the first quarter was a little bit of blip do you expect we’ll return to kind of the down one to two market that we’ve seen over the past several years? John at least I could predict that but the truth to the matter is we don't know.
I think it's our belief… Then you guess it's been $1 million or something as you study especially in this kind of stuff.
We did… (Inaudible) answers.
Yeah.
We have opinions about trends as we go forward John.
It's very very difficult given here to predict.
I think what we believe is the trend should begin to start pointing in a better direction for us.
But quarter-to-quarter year-to-year it’s very very difficult to predict.
And so I think we view the first quarter as we're doing a good job and maybe some of the demographics are starting to slightly shift the other way but a lot of that can be driven as you know by severe weather.
And so we're pleased with where it is we positioned the business to be able to handle increase in volume and it keeps the volume so we're prepared to deal with whatever comes our way.
And what are you doing now in terms of if you look because you’re standalone your cremation business how much is your revenue per call up for maybe a couple of years ago and if you do everything you want to do look at that number looks like in a two three years? Well I think if you look at cremation we kind of view in two different buckets internally to talk to your issue.
One is direct cremation then we call it cremation with service but you can look at pricing in both of those over the last five years the compounded growth rates have exceeded the industry and have exceeded the burial growth rate we’re probably looking it in cremation it’s 6% and 7% kind of compounded over the last five years versus let’s say the burial growth rate is closer to three and then you're dealing with the mix change.
So we're seeing cremation go up some of that is within our network we’ve raised prices on direct cremation and probably the bigger piece of it is we're selling more products and services to cremation consumers that want us and we're doing that a lot in the packaging and we are seeing some success.
So I think our belief is as it relates to that consumer that want service and want merchandising we can grow at differentially from a percentage prospective relative to the burial consumer.
And the direct cremation consumer is driven more by price that I think we’ll handle on a different way but there is a way to profit for both of this stream within July.
Okay and certainly you and lot more competitors for acquisitions with financial sponsors couple other companies it’s repair the balance sheet have prices kind of pass the point where they are all that attractive are you still seeing sizeable deals that have attractive multiples? We’re still seeing deals that we like at attractive multiple pipeline looks good.
We haven't seen an impact from those things.
Again you’re always looking for that to begin to kick in this industries seen it before but I think today the deals we’re seeing we like and they are at reasonable prices.
Okay.
Thank you.
(Operator Instruction) Your next question comes from the line of Clinton Fendley with Davenport.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Clinton.
First question on the cremation I mean obviously it's a volatile metrics here but I'm wondering if you saw the up-tick consistently throughout the U.S.? I think we see it in different regions.
I don't think it is across the board U.S– at different rates in different places.
So but again not isolate to anyone but it's not a national trend item.
And I now historically you’ve dropped some of your alliances with the direct cremation groups and I mean why do you think we’re seeing it move up so much here in this quarter? It's very very difficult to explain and again quarter-to-quarter you got to view this isn’t anomaly like we’ve said there is a time last year as an example it grew 70 basis points someone’s got to say is it slowing down and I think our answer was no.
It’s just these trends tend to occur over the long periods of time in a very very predictable in any one year in particular in any one quarter it can over reacted.
So I think we look at the 230 basis points as a anomaly.
And again if we’re wrong and there is a trend and that’s something you later react in but I don't think Clinton this means necessarily anything.
I know we do pay attention to things that are out there so we do get concern that a lot of folks that are all the way fixed income that are in a very low interest rate environment got gasoline prices coming up so you got to believe on the front some of those things are going to impact but we don't see this as a continuing trend or a consumer choice that we grow at this rate.
Okay.
And then onto cemetery side I guess it’s fundamentally why do you think we are seeing fewer down payments of 10% as just again the strain on the consumer or have you offered any different packages or anything that would maybe explain the reason here? I think its two thing I think there probably is an element of the consumer being strained and therefore needing a little more financing.
But actually we believe there is another thing that’s getting to happen as the sales force continues to improve in growth you got sales that radiate within certain distance of your cemetery and lot of it get sold what we call our family service [templates].
So they’re working through our cemetery to insure.
As our sales force matures in growth we’re expanding outside of that cemetery and beginning to grow to what we call community service.
The folks that are out there meeting with people in their home maybe further away from cemetery and so we are converting sales that maybe in the prior period we wouldn't have converted and that consumers not paying at a down payment that you would see and I would say more core traditional sale.
So as you began to do that which is a phenomenal success you’re seeing less people with the down payment and the key now is collect those and make those sales real and we think that’s what should occur in the coming quarter.
I don’t like that.
So there is clearly (inaudible) that we're seeing higher penetration rates as it relates to numbers of people buying cemetery properties.
And that was my next question and I mean so you think it will be a couple of quarters before you can collect that 10% and recognize some of the revenue here than? Yes I think again it depends on how long we’re financing it over and what their down payment is but if you use a simple metric like 5% down if it’s a three-year pay and now that you convert to next quarter if it’s a five-year pay it may take two quarters.
But generally it’s going to be there.
And the other thing that makes us feel good is we are very focused on collection.
We’ve injected a lot of discipline as it relates to the collection process those on the front piece and on the combined piece.
We’re getting bank drafts as a way to set these up in the first place and I think that makes it a lot easier than relying upon trying to collect that first payment about making a call or (inaudible).
So we feel pretty good about the collectability of the stream again assuming there is not a big economic crisis where people go away from this type of sale.
So we’ve used.
The growth is good.
We’re not concerned about the down payment less than 10% because we view it as a way that we are growing cemetery sales now and potentially follow-up sales because again remember the adjacency associated with cemetery.
If you tell Tom hopefully you’re going to tell his wife and my brother.
I think that my brother is going to be very next to me.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi folks.
I jumped on late.
So if can answer these I’ll just circle back with you.
Have you expressed any comments on the debt rate in the current quarter have the stronger trends continued or are they tapered of seasonally as you might expect? And then secondarily the step up in CapEx year-over-year can you remind us any particular projects underway? Yours is just spending now that times are a little bit easier freeze up the wall out of it.
Okay (inaudible) and to answer your question as it relates to volumes first.
The trend really began for us that we saw in November that continued through February.
March stock investment bid and we attribute a lot of this to probably the severe weather patterns that we’ve experienced throughout the country.
Having said that we got a question about we’ve been diligently saying about trends and again our conclusion from that study is that we believe that the numbers of debts to began to stabilize and easily began to grow.
Now lot of this study can’t predict what can happen in 2011 specifically but more about what’s going to happen in ‘11 through 2020 and what trend should be there.
And we feel pretty good about that.
So having said that that’s the background with which we’ve tried to look at our crystal ball but we know though it can happen.
I’ll tell you we haven’t closed April yet but April looks pretty good.
It doesn’t look like a bad month by any stress of imagination.
So again very very hard to predict our business as we can manage our volume about any further big investment and we can manage down if we have to.
We’ve injected a lot of variable cost mentality into our business.
So we’ll do the best we can.
As it relates to CapEx really what’s happening we don’t expect CapEx to go any higher than what we gave guidance on.
The reason why quarter-over-quarter I think it looks great.
Remember this is cash spend.
So a lot of projects were finished particularly in the major markets in the first quarter of this year and you think that the last year’s first quarter in 2010 to come out kind of a scary 2009.
So I think a lot of the cash got spend later in the year.
So year-over-year we feel pretty good that we’re going to fall up in the boundaries that we gave and it’s not really any differentiable expense to 2010.
Okay.
Thank you.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line A J Rice with Susquehanna.
Thanks (inaudible).
Maybe just you’ve talked around a little bit but just update on the priorities for the use of cash flow.
I know you got your debt down to a level.
Well I don’t think that’s necessarily a high priority unless there is an unusual shake out in the market.
But can you just comment on debt repayment versus share repurchase versus development and acquisitions sort of how do you think about those these days? Sure A.J.
I think the first priorities (inaudible) when you look at where the share price is where debt levels are where the interest rates are in the pipeline it’s pretty easy to conclude that acquisitions are the highest and best used because the returns we’re seeing on those are at levels that we believe outperformed by a back running stock.
And that continues to be the case.
And again the pipeline is pretty full.
We expect that to be place where we’re going to place our cash first.
Having said that I think we’ve generally sounds they’re significant in that where you’re not going spend all of that on acquisitions.
And as you look at the next step the next best use in this environment for us and to return it to you guys and you can return it through share repurchasing you can return it through dividends.
We feel pretty strongly as a company and as a Board that we need to have a decent dividend yield and we’ll continue to work to try to grow that dividend over periods of time.
However at these rates buying back our shares that you think as the cash returns they’re yielding north of 10%.
We will buyback our shares and that makes a lot of sense for us to do.
But lastly is for cash we’d never do and request upon this.
Our liquidity and our balance sheet are in a very great shape from a leveraged perspective.
So there is really no need and it’s not a great return the rest of you buying debt.
The reason we’d never buy in our debt in this time environment is really like fair set to manage the liquidity profile and so from time to time you might see us do that.
So that we won’t do it for a strategic purpose at this point in time.
Okay.
You talked around a couple of times also the fact that the pipeline looks good and its building and maybe better than it has been over the last few years.
Can you just give us some flyover for what is driving that and so the nature of discussion is it a succession issue is it fall out from the weak economy in the market debacle of two years ago or I mean it’s the fact that Tom sold out at least to think about it maybe give us a little more flavor for what’s driving an improved type loss? It will always be our gut feel.
There is no empirical evidence but I think a lot of things have to do with it.
There is a rush if you will I think created by the uncertainty around taxes specifically the raise of the capital gains regulatory concerns.
These things always tend to create a buzz about it but I think as it really is and (inaudible) put us so appropriately.
When you go back to the 90s we and many others were outsoaring people and trying to convince them to sell their business (inaudible) and take that owner as that was in his late 50s still had a lot of energy in one but inherent a price in mind.
And then when you go 10 years and it may take that long for somebody to go.
That price if somebody showed me a 97 not going to get it.
I finally gave up.
And now I’m 68 I’m 70 years old.
I don’t have children that are interested in the business.
I’m much more likely a transaction is much more likely to occur.
I’m generalizing but I think that’s part of it.
It is just the industry from an ownership perspective is 10 years to 12 years older.
We’ve been a lot of time passed when prices were significantly higher.
And so I think that realization stayed in.
Again I think the appropriate thing to say is about this industry you never really might achieve quite unfair and therefore our approach is really about selected.
We want to go after the ones that are there.
The pricing is going to dramatically change if these are consistent good business to be in and we like the ones we’re buying.
We’re doing it on purpose.
Okay.
Maybe one last thing.
When you look at your book of business obviously the cremation rates continues to move up there.
You amounted the year-to-year price changes I guess there is some discussion at least one of the other players I think there might be an opportunity unless you realize better rates on the cremation by selling obviously.
And I know you guys have talked about this on floor and make the services.
If you look at the year-to-year change in your average cremation rate price for service on the cremation side versus traditional funeral side they’re growing about the same or is the cremation side staying on higher realization on price? I don’t know if you guys have talked about that or not.
Yes.
If you look over the last five-year we just did that study.
And we look at what was happening in 2005 what was happening in 2010.
We look at our business and then we did a survey of businesses across the country.
And again we did it regionally and so I can give you a much differential but I won’t.
But the general conclusion is that from 2005 and 2010 the funeral the burial consumer grew about 3% and the cremation consumer grew about 3% compound and (inaudible).
When you look at the DI’s business our burial consumer probably grew about 3.5% and cremation consumer grew about 7% compounded.
So I think that tells me two things.
We’re probably (inaudible) about our cremation service charges which again may have an impact of losers of volume two but at the same time I think we’ve done a good job of packaging and tearing our packages in presentation therefore towards the cremation consumer.
Now it’s towards the cremation consumer that wants services and products and therefore I think as we’re seeing the highest level of success.
I think what some competitors are talking about are how you do get that person into the cemetery and I think that’s been a challenge for the industry all alone.
I think the success rate of pulling that person at cemetery is pretty low probably in the 10% to 15% range and that’s the trick that we all can do a better job of but it’s a real challenge organizationally to get the funeral customer to go into the cemetery than in their backyard.
And so we’ll continue to strike things and I think there is handful opportunity to continue that growth as we get better at putting relevant product and services for billing and the box.
And this all gets back to once the consumer willing to pay for and no one is concluding the (Inaudible) we’ll continue to drive.
Okay.
That’s great.
Thanks a lot.
Okay.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the question and answer portion of today’s call.
I would like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
We want to thank everybody for being on the call with us today.
We look forward to talking to you again which will probably be the late July.
So thank you for your participation and see you then.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the presentation and you may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 Service Corporation International Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Michel and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host SCI Management.
Please go ahead.
Hi and good morning.
This is Debbie Young Director of Investor Relations and I’ll just walk you through the Safe Harbor real quick.
In our comments today we will make statements that are not historical facts and are forward-looking.
These statements are based on assumptions that we believe are reasonable.
However there are many important factors that could cause our actual results in the future to differ materially from these forward-looking statements.
For more information related to these statements and other risk factors please review our periodic filings with the SEC that are available on our website.
Also on the call today we may use terms such as normalized EPS or normalized or adjusted operating cash flow.
These are non-GAAP financial terms.
Please see our press release and 8-K that were issued yesterday where we have provided a detailed reconciliation for each of these measures to the appropriate GAAP term.
With that we’ll get started with comments from Tom Ryan our President and CEO.
Thank you Debbie and thanks everybody for being on the call again.
As is customary I’m going to start off with a global view of the quarter kind of the primary drivers touch a little bit on overview and dig down a little deeper into funeral operations and cemetery operations then I have some closing comments to just kind of provide some clarity for the back half of the year.
So as far as earnings per share our normalized earning per share were $0.15 which compares to $0.15 that we reported in the prior year quarter.
We had some currency gains in last year’s results we had some reimbursements for legal settlements that benefited both period.
When you net it all out we’re essentially flat for the quarter.
Funeral profits were flat just as we had anticipated but we really knocked out of the park for cemetery segment performance.
The primary driver for cemetery profits outstanding pre-need production in the United States particularly as it relates to property sales.
This is especially in light of surge in sales we had to replicate from second quarter of 2010 in Canada that was driven if you’ll remember by the tax code change which basically incentivized consumers to prearrange prior to July 1 2010.
We believe that the incremental sales that we made in the second quarter of 2010 probably drew $1.52 per share for that second quarter of last year and this was more than made up by increased sales production from the U.S.
operations in the current quarter without the benefit of any kind of tax collection.
This wouldn’t be possible if it weren’t for the collective efforts of all 20 000 employees turn up towards the mine and I want to thank everybody for their efforts on the quarter.
Now I’d like to shift to a more detailed discussion of funeral operations.
Overall the funeral segment performed as anticipated.
The growth in average sales generally offset the decline in volume and the increase in general agency revenue on increased production basically covered the incremental sales cost incurred in the quarter to drive pre-need sales.
As we said before our funeral segment is mature steady business it generates a lot of cash flow.
Meaningful profit growth is challenging as long there is no meaningful increase in the number of debts.
We believe the increase is coming someday and our strategy is to grow future share through strategic acquisitions at reasonable prices and through growing pre-need funeral segment.
Comparable funeral revenues for the quarter grew by $5.5 million or 1.6%.
This growth was primarily from a $6.3 million increase in general agency revenue during the quarter on higher sales production and an increasing general agency rate which accounted for about $5 million of the growth as well as a continuing shift to an insurance-funded product from trust particularly in the state of Florida which generated an additional $1.3 million which added up to 6.3.
The mix of insurance funded product grew about 79% this quarter which compares to about 74% of production in the second quarter of 2010.
Our same-store volumes this quarter were done 2.7% and we believe this is a reflection of the number of deaths that are occurring in our relevant markets.
Year-to-date our same-store volumes are down 0.8% which is slightly better than our forecast assumptions of downward single digit percentages.
We continue to believe that the modeling volume is down 1 to 2% for the year to be appropriate.
The sales average grew 2.5% which basically offset the impact of the volume decline.
The growth includes the impact of higher trust on income and a positive Canadian currency effect.
If you exclude the Canadian currency effect we experienced a growth of about 1.8% and if you exclude trust income it drops it done to about 1.3.
This was the bottom line with expectations maybe slightly higher.
And the growth in the overall averages is encouraging to us because it occurred despite a 250 basis point increase in the cremation mix.
All of the cremation mix shift went into direct cremation.
The cremation mix in the second quarter was 44.1% which was similar to the levels that we saw in the first quarter of this year.
It did surprise us a little bit as you generally don’t see that big of an increase within a year.
If you go back to 2009 2010 we experienced increases of 140 and then 70 basis point.
So again this is somewhat accelerated but you know we thought 70 basis points was right last year.
So something we’ll continue to monitor and it’s a nice part of the story is that we’re beginning to see nice increases in the average spend even as it relates to direct cremation.
Remember this is a market that is growing and we’re getting better at serving certain of these customers who have a location preference through our traditional network.
Additionally with our recent investment in Neptune Society we can serve a new segment of the direct cremation consumer that is price-sensitive and prone to pre-arrange.
Neptune – remember Neptune is the largest direct cremation organization in the U.S.
with annual revenues of more than $55 million and a network of 30 locations in nine states.
So we’ve closed this transaction in June and haven’t felt any of the financial impact yet in our results but it will be impacting the back half of the year obviously some growth growth as you think about 2012.
So from a profitability standpoint for the quarter comparable funeral profits were flat and the margin dropped about 30 basis points.
The revenue growth of $5.5 million was offset by increased advertising and selling related costs that drove pre-need sales initiatives of $4.7 million as well as other inflationary costs.
Remember pre-need selling costs are expenses incurred but the revenues are generally deferred.
So when you have an increased production you’ll see some pressure on your margins.
The increase in advertising and selling costs were driven primarily by higher marketing and lead generation costs and by three sales force compensation nuance.
First a shift of production from Canada to the U.S.
Remember last year we had the surge in Canadian sales increases our sales cost by 300 basis points on that production.
Secondly an increase in the production and shift in mix to insurance from trusts also produces a higher cost as our compensation pays more for insurance product.
Now keep in mind that this is more than offset by the general agency revenues that we’re generating but again would cause a growth in cost.
And lastly as we expand through community service sales force and so these are outside forces when you think about it in sales lingo widening the net outside the radius of the funeral home.
These are typically commission-based that are lead generation dependent and therefore a little more costly.
In addition it tends towards younger ages and as we move out in the community and drop the age the cost to the sales force goes up.
But again this is more than offset by the general agency revenue that we generate for selling that younger age cliental.
So pre-need funeral sales increased $3.1 million for the quarter or 2.1% against a very strong quarter last year.
And on the surface you might say 2% isn’t that impressive but remember in the second quarter of last year we had the benefit of the tax changes in Canada.
So if you calculate the U.S.
this quarter we are up $23 million or to20.5%.
So great job by the sales force.
I want to thank them again for driving that performance in the second quarter.
Now I’m going to shift to an overview of cemetery operations.
Our comparable cemetery revenue increased $14 million or 8% quarter-over-quarter.
This is mainly attributable to increased cemetery sales production again predominantly property sales and higher trust fund income.
Our comparable pre-need sales remember this is pre-need not at need because pre-need we can really drive with sales performance that production grew $12.9 million quarter-over-quarter or 11.8%.
And again because of the strange nature of the revenue last year in Canada if you isolate the U.S.
we’re up $21.6 million or 23.3% on pre-need U.S.
sales.
So again outstanding performance.
Cemetery trust fund income increased $5.6 million quarter-over-quarter and came in ahead of our expectations.
$3.1 million of this increase is related to a one-time distribution from a long-term alternative investment.
The remainder of the increase was due to the positive returns earned in our trust over the prior 12-month period.
Therefore cemetery profits grew $8.1 million for the quarter and margins increased 300 basis point to 20.8%.
If you exclude the one-time distribution of $3.1 million of trust fund income revenues grew by about $11 million $10 million of which came from operations and $1 million of which came from trust fund.
And therefore gross profit dropped the bottom-line from that $11 million was $5 million and the margins still grew to about 19.5%.
Recall that in the first quarter we experienced some unusual items that reduced cemetery gross margin percentage.
We told you that we thought that would correct itself during the rest of the year and you can see that they have as our margins have returned to more of the expected range.
As I communicated to you previously we should expect operating revenue growth to drop to about 60% cemetery margin and trust income dropped about 100%.
So by my math we’re about $2 million short of what we would have expected in cemetery margins.
Similar to what we saw in the funeral segment this was caused primarily by an increase in advertising and selling related costs which were beyond historical percentage increase associated with cemetery sales production growth.
This was driven primarily by three items.
First higher marketing and lead generation costs secondly the fact that the majority of the growth is coming from heritage property sales about $10 million and this carries a higher sales cost on purpose.
We pay more for property sales than we do other cemetery products and that generates about 300 to 400 basis point increase when you think about incremental sales.
Lastly increased counselor productivity which was one of our number one goals in sales this year drove some of the cost increase because as we move the middle production counselors up the incremental sales by these counselors pushes bonus money into our higher payout band.
So again as we grow and as we expand into community service you would expect that these costs would go up slightly we will do it all day for results that we are experiencing today.
So now for some final thoughts as you think about the back half of the year.
We’re obviously very pleased with our performance for the quarter and really for the first half of the year.
Based on these results we now believe we are on pace to achieve the high-end of our guidance range for earnings per share which was $0.56 to $0.64.
We also believe we will be on the high-end of our cash flow range and Eric will talk a little bit more about that later.
As we look ahead to the back half of 2011 we see some challenges but we are generally very optimistic about finishing the year on a high note.
In the funeral segment we would expect soft funeral volumes and a continuing increase in direct cremations that will put some pressure on funeral margins but we believe we will continue to grow the average sales and manage our costs effectively to minimize that impact.
One area on the cost side that could cause a minor concern is the level of energy prices.
Specifically for us it would be fuel and utility related costs.
We expect that pre-need funeral sales productions will grow in the high single-digit percentage range in the back half of the year.
Setting on a comparable basis from the Canadian tax hangover effect if you will that we saw in the third quarter of 2010.
As we accelerate stuff in the second some things weren’t around for third quarter performance.
So again we would expect to be able to beat that pretty soundly.
With the anticipated growth in pre-need funeral sales we would suspect that a commensurate growth in sales force compensation while holding to about a 14% or 14.5% as a percent of production.
Advertising and selling cost should maintain the pace of some $12 million a quarter that we would experience since the fourth quarter of 2010 and therefore probably be about $2 million higher year-over-year for the third quarter.
Keep in mind we’re still turning the dials and a lot of this – and we’ll find the right mix of promotion effectively and efficiently drive pre-need sales leads.
These increased costs should keep funeral profits relatively flat for the second half of 2011.
As for the cemetery segment we would expect a continued focus on pre-need selling efforts with a good momentum on results posted in the first half of the year.
Pre-need cemetery is up 13.8% for the first half versus an internal expectation that we had that was about 7% so really great momentum there.
So for the back half of the year expect cemetery pre-need sales to grow in the low to mid single-digit percentage range with normalized sales force compensation of around 18% to 19% of sales production.
And this would be consistent with the cost we experienced in the back half of 2010.
The cash flow characteristics of this business remain strong and we plan to continue to capitalize on value enhancing opportunities for you in 2011 by utilizing our current capital deployment priorities.
First of which is reinvesting in our core strategies which provides high returns and very low risks.
This would be hike cemetery property development that has very high double-digit returns – internal terms for us.
Secondarily by investing in strategic acquisitions and new builds at the appropriate returns.
Third returning value to shareholders through share repurchases and strategy of increasing our dividend over time.
And lastly managing our debt and liquidity profile and managing cash levels credit facility availability and near-term debt securities to minimize risk.
And finally you know speaking to acquisitions in June we made a strategic investment in the Neptune Society which I mentioned before is about $55 million in annualized revenues.
We are very excited about the opportunity in this segment and mutual learning opportunities that we’re currently exploring will explore.
I would like to welcome Marco Markin and his entire team to the SCI family.
We spent a lot of time with Marco and the management team.
I must say we are very impressed and excited about the future.
In addition we close on another three acquisition transactions with combined revenues of about $6 million and I would tell you that as far as the pipeline goes we continue to see deals out there at reasonable prices and are excited about the opportunities to continue to grow.
This conclude my prepared comments and I’ll turn the call over now to Eric.
Good morning everybody.
As usual the topics that I’m going to cover relate to cash flow and G&amp;A expenses for the quarter.
I’m also going to talk a little bit about the second half of the year in terms of the outlook for these two items.
Also briefly discuss our trust fund performance and then our current position and liquidity and then we’ll end the call before we go to questions and comments about capital deployment.
So let’s start with cash flow.
First of all pleased with cash flow results for the quarter the operating cash flow was $67.5 million and this is better than what we anticipated internally for the second quarter.
It was primarily a result of cash receipts there were produced from the substantial increase in pre-need cemetery production during the quarter.
For the second quarter and the first half of this year the operating cash flow was below 2010 levels by about $10 million.
This was primarily result of working capital of timing differences that we had anticipated for 2011 which is substantially at least for the quarter a result of strong receivable collection efforts in the second quarter of 2010 that I had mentioned last year.
As I look forward to the second half of 2011 I believe we’re going to end the year with strong cash flows.
But a couple of items I want to first mention to you in relation to the cash flows for the second half of 2011.
First let’s talk about capital expenditures.
Total CapEx for the quarter was about $32 million.
The recurring maintenance and cemetery development CapEx was about $29 million of this amount.
So in the first half of 2011 our recurring capital expenditures again the maintenance of cemetery development CapEx totaled about $52 million but that amount is running a little bit higher than we’ve originally expect.
So recall for the full year 2011 we originally expected a range of $85 million to $95 million but based on the current trends we now believe we’ll be in the $95 million to $105 million range in total for the full year of to 2011 as it relates to maintenance in cemetery development CapEx.
So this increase in the recurring CapEx of roughly $10 million is primarily coming from two areas that we believe are pertinent investments.
First it’s about $4 million to $5 million more to purchase client sale technology for our pre-need Sales Counselor to continue to improve our sales productivity.
Second it’s $5 million to $7 million more in cemetery development projects that we believe will yield favorable cash returns we are excited about.
The second thing I want to mention to you relates to cash taxes.
Our cash taxes are continuing to trend lower than what we originally anticipated.
Cash taxes in the first half of this year were about $8 million and to remind you we originally expected a full year 2011 range of cash taxes of $20 million to $30 million.
We now believe our full-year 2011 cash taxes will approximate lower than that probably in the $15 million to $20 million range.
Also quickly while we are discussing taxes we also believe our normalized effective tax rate in the remaining two quarters will be around 37% which is roughly what it was in this quarter as well in normalized basis.
So stepping back to discuss cash flow in the second half of 2011 we believe we’ll continue our momentum and produce operating cash flow in the high end of our guidance range which is $330 million to $380 million for the full year of 2011.
This translates to an expectation for us to grow our operating cash flow in the second half of this year versus the second half of 2010.
And using the recurring CapEx guidance that I just mentioned this calculates there are free cash flow we’ll calculate to a range of $250 million to $285 million.
This represents a free cash flow yield in excess of 10% at the midpoint of this range.
As shifting to G&amp;A expenses G&amp;A expenses were just under $25 million during the second quarter.
Included in this amount was a $3.1 million reimbursement for legal settlements and about $600 000 of acquisition and transition costs.
Excluding these items G&amp;A expenses would have been about $27 million in the quarter.
So as we look forward we believe that G&amp;A expenses will trend in this $26 million to $27 million range for each of the remaining two quarters of 2011.
The slight increase from the original expectations is mainly due to higher incentive compensation costs which primarily relate to our long-term incentive comp plan that is tied to total shareholder return that we discussed on last quarter’s conference call.
As you know our stock price has risen from the $8 to $9 range in 2010 to the $10 to $12 range in 2011 and that resulted in an increase to G&amp;A expenses underneath this plan.
Now let’s shift to trust funds.
Our combined trust fund returns were positive 0.4% during the quarter.
This compares in the S&amp;P of roughly flat and the partly is aggregate about 2.3% in the quarter.
In the first half of 2011 our trust fund returns were positive 4.1% which is on the high end of our expectations that we communicated that our trust fund assets will realize an annual positive return in the low single digit percentage range.
Total trust fund income recognized in our income statement during the quarter was $27.1 million which is $7 million more in the second quarter of 2010.
This is ahead of our expectations on good trust fund performance over the last 12 months as well as the $3.1 million distribution from a long-term alternative investment that we mentioned in the press release.
From a financial position liquidity standpoint our cash balance at the end of the quarter was $133 million.
Today we roughly have the same amount on hand about $130 million so while we have deployed some amounts of capital in July.
It was generally offset by positive operating cash flows during the month as well.
In terms of credit capacity we have a $500 million credit facility that have no amounts outstanding on it but that facility is used to support about $33 million in letters of credit.
Our total debt at the end of the quarter was just over $1.8 billion hasn’t moved that much since the last time we discussed it.
Our debt maturity profile positions us so well to explore value enhanced opportunities as most importantly we’d have no meaningful debt maturities until October 2014.
And when you look at these near-term maturities through 2016 we believe they are manageable within the levels of our normalized free cash flow that the company we have consistently generated.
Our current leverage continues to be favorable and at the low end of our net debt to EBITDA targeted range which is 3 to 3.5 times.
And at the end of the quarter we are approximately 3.1 times.
Now let’s talk about capital deployment during the quarter.
As we made some prudent investments in the quarter and as you could see we continue to follow what we describe as a balanced approach of capital deployment between acquisitions and share repurchases while we still are managing our near-term debt maturity profile.
As Tom mentioned earlier we closed the Neptune society acquisition during the quarter as well as three other smaller transactions for a total spend of about $36 million which was reported in cash flows from investing activities during the quarter.
Also during the quarter we also continued our share repurchase program and repurchased about 2.3 million shares for a total investment of just over $25 million.
Subsequent to the end of the quarter we bought another 750 000 shares for a little over $8 million.
As of today we currently have about $115 million remaining on our existing share repurchase authorization and our current shares outstanding are now down to about 237 million shares.
Debt repurchases during the quarter totaled $23 million as we continue to proactively manage our near-term maturities.
Remember we consider debt repurchases in the open market when we can improve our near-term maturity profile and when the fair market values are deemed appropriate.
So in conclusion we are pleased with the first half with the performance with the first half of 2011 and most importantly excited about the remainder of 2011.
We continue to have a strong balance sheet with great liquidity a favorable debt maturity profile and most importantly a very attractive free cash flow.
We’ll keep evaluating opportunities to deploy our capital wisely and to enhance our shareholder value.
So with that that concludes our prepared remarks and operator we will now turn it over to questions at this time.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question is from the line of Clint Fendley of Davenport.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Clint.
A couple questions here.
I guess first off on the cemetery margins I know last quarter they were a bit lower than what we were expecting due to customers that hadn’t provided the 10% down payment.
How much of the improvement this quarter was due to the collection of those earlier sales? I think again it depends on where you’re comparing to Clint.
For instance if you compare second quarter this year to second quarter last year our recognition percentages were both 91%.
So theoretically you’ve got not a lot of benefit quarter-over-quarter.
So you’re really seeing what’s happening this quarter on that comparison is all driven by sales and not recognition.
What I will tell you is that we expected some of the less than 10% down sales to convert in the second quarter of this year and that happened as we anticipated.
And some of that’s going to fall into the third quarter as well.
I’d also point out that again part of this has to do with the economy and what consumers are dealing with today.
We are seeing more people wanting to finance and receive more people with slightly lower down payment.
I think we got into a little detail last time we’re not doing that with a blind eye.
We’re doing it with some incentives to get people put on board and we’re doing direct drive their accounts and things like that then ensure that we do get to that above 10% and therefore becomes recognizable under gap.
So about what we expected.
I would say quarter-over-quarter from an annual basis it doesn’t have a lot of impact.
Okay thanks.
That’s helpful.
And then secondly here I know as far as volume the CDC number showed some weakness during the month of April.
I wondered if you -- if the softness that you had seen was pretty consistent across all of your locations and just why you’re expecting the softer volumes going forward? Okay.
First of all I think we generally – you’re going to see different things in different parts of the country weather pattern things like that.
That happens all the time.
I would generally say this wasn’t an isolated issue of volume.
We tend to see it in multiple pockets throughout the U.S.
and as far as guidance scored the real answer – and I think I’ve said this before as we don’t have a clue.
Nobody knows how many people are going to die in the back half of the year.
Wish I can tell you.
What I’m really trying to communicate to you is we model slightly down volumes because that’s what we’ve experienced.
Based on the studies we’ve done.
We’ve seen it happening in markets.
Now it’s our belief that that will turn around one day and hopefully in the not too distant future and you’re going to have quarters where that happens.
And that could happen in the back half of the year.
We’re just telling you we’re preparing our cost structure for the fact that it could be slightly down in the back half of the year.
So again that’s the way we model but not necessarily what we necessarily predict.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then the last question here on the cremation.
It’s been up for two quarters now I’m wondering the way you’re reporting Neptune I mean it did -- was the second impacted at all by their numbers? No.
Neptune is not in our numbers yet so again the 250 basis point spike is really within our existing business today and again one of the things I wanted to point out to people is we kind of dissect the spending levels for direct cremation cremation with service burial basically anyway you want to look at it.
And the good news is that a lot of this incremental volume is coming in at higher prices and we’re seeing direct cremations on average now and pushing close to $2 100 and not too long ago that was $1 900.
So that’s the good news.
And I think that along with other pricing strategies are allowing us to continue to grow average spend with consumers by offering a wider variety of products to those customers.
And so we feel good even with the 250 basis point and we feel even better that we now have Neptune you know on our team and we’ll be able to service a broader array of direct cremation consumers through different medium.
And then going forward do you intend to breakout the Neptune cremations from your traditional because I would expect that would impact the spend levels that you would be reporting? Yeah.
I think in some way we will.
I think one of the things – we’re still playing with a bunch of different ideas on how to do that.
But I think you’re probably right we will have a Neptune segment.
You can make an argument it takes some of the direct cremation business and puts it there too.
So it’s just trying to be helpful to the investor and understand what’s happening because you’re exactly right we get Neptune’s volume.
When you blend it in our averages are going to go down pretty significantly and the volume is going to go up significantly and that’s helpful to know but I think it’s probably better for you guys to understand here’s the business that’s chasing through the traditional infrastructure and here’s a business that goes at it slightly differently.
So we’ll definitely provide you some insight and don’t think we’ve come down finalized on how exactly we’re going to do that.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hi Tom I think you mentioned that the general agency rates that you’re receiving for the funeral business has actually increased the amount itself.
And I was just curious why would that be why would you suddenly begetting better terms? Am I under that record? Yeah yeah.
It’s actually a bunch of things Bob but I’ll give you a couple of them.
One is because we’ve been able to grow the entire business to levels that we have over the last few years.
We incrementally as it gets higher enjoy better rates.
And so that’s had some impact just the raw level of what we’re selling and the tiers that we’re eating into now.
Secondarily I think I’ve mentioned before we’re driving the average age down slightly.
And when you do that for younger people the insurance companies pay you higher general liability fees.
So on a relative basis that would make you go up.
The third item which probably doesn’t have as much of an impact is the type of product that you write.
So for instance if there’s a multi-pay life product that’s going to pay more than a single pay and its going to pay more than what we call a TIO.
And so as you again write high quality product for the insurance company they’re going to pay you back.
Those are the primary reasons.
Another one is just a technical reason and I won’t even get much in the details.
But I think the levels we’re at now are correct.
And that is in the sense that as we write product that mature very quickly that’s an unusual product for insurance companies.
And the way we handle that last year it was different than this year and that cause little bit difference in the rate.
But the rate you’re looking at right now which is high 19s if you will is very consistently achievable as we look at the future.
As we drive age down and we drive people into higher quality product and that can even go up.
So we’re excited about our ability to continue to drive that performance.
And is that something north of the CPI based type increase then given all those metrics? Yeah yeah.
I think we’re definitely above the CPI index now.
And I think the challenge going forward how do you do it better each year.
Okay.
And just I probably overestimated Neptune’s impact on the quarter.
I thought you had it in there for a month and that that skewed the cremation things.
But it sounds like that all in front of you.
Can you speak more anecdotally just where you see some revenue opportunities how you could drive that growth faster for that business? And then your expectations from a margin front what you can cut out or what you could add to really improve that margin profile? Yeah.
You’re talking specifically Neptune? Yes on Neptune.
Yeah.
I think on Neptune its going be a couple of things.
One is what Neptune has been able to do is pretty quickly establish a beachhead in a market and get to a mature state of sales probably within a three-year period Mike two to three year period.
And we believe that we’re going to have growth opportunities to expand in to markets and quickly kind of ramp up and be significant and that’s going to drive some of that.
One thing I want to point out about that growth is it’s not all of that capital intensive under their model.
So it is not going be a requirement for us to spend a lot of money.
And that’s going to be able to drive the top line of this.
The second piece of township line is really synergies.
When you think about the market Neptune may go into there may be some cross selling opportunities with some of our cemeteries with other funeral homes and product offering and learning that we’re going to have amongst each other.
And the lastly as far as profitability goes I think we mentioned this when we talked about the opportunity before.
What they’ve generally had to do as Neptune is predominantly outsourcing the fulfillment of service on this.
And what we’re going to be able to do because of our large footprint is provide that and affectively at a lower cost because of our infrastructure and because of our logistics and expertise we can deliver the services at a lower cost which then should enhance the margins of the business.
And that’s helpful.
Just lastly obviously with debt ceiling issues in D.C.
are you guys doing anything differently or preparing any type of Armageddon here coming I mean what things do you focus on as it relates to that? Well I think Bob that all of this stuff is temporary.
I think people in my personal opinion.
People are going to overreact to debt ceiling and credit downgrades and all that kind of stuff.
And from our perspective I think we look at it and say this is a long-term problem that somebody with courage is going to have come out and fix around entitlement reform around tax code reform and regulatory reform and I think that stuff will resolve itself over time.
I think our opinion is it’s going to be tough slugging economy for the foreseeable future and the nice thing about it is – it’s been a point to bring people together to focus on the long-term issues.
I don’t think we get so exercised things about treasuries we hold some treasuries in our portfolio.
We’re not overly concerned about interest payments on those and a credit downgrade again is not going to dramatically impact our portfolio our thinking.
We’re more concerned about some of these longer-term issues and having some leadership in Washington to begin to apply some solutions to these obvious problems for those of us with us on the beltway.
I think I believe it when I see there.
So I guess last years no major changes to then to your portfolio the trust funds our allocations then? No sir.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of A.
J.
Rice with Susquehanna.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Hi everybody.
Maybe a couple questions.
First of all just a little more color you mentioned the acquisition pipeline looks good.
Is there anything to call out there and say we’re seeing it build because of this or that or it maybe the types of properties you’re seeing any further color in prospects for how much activity you might see in the next six 12 months? I think A.J.
we continue -- we really expect to see kind of what we’re seeing now.
Always hard to tell exactly why but I think the best reason is there hasn’t been a lot of activity in this industry for a long period of time.
And there is somewhat pinup -- supply that needed to come on the market.
I think there was a day of reckoning of what is an appropriate clearing price.
I think the industry has seen that price come to a point.
We’ve seen some of the other consolidated begin to put their toe on the water as well because these are reasonably priced opportunities.
As far as what we are seeing it’s really all over the Board.
We’re seeing cemetery opportunities we are seeing funerals opportunities we’re seeing them on the East Coast we’re seeing them on the West Coast.
So there is no specific identity that’s I think is driving this.
I do think again there is a bit of skepticism about of what the future holds as it relates to regulatory packs and some people with the opportunity once the certainty of knowing what their statement look like so that probably helps.
But generally I really think it’s the supply-demand and the supply is coming online and I think the people that are buying them are being generally reasonable in how they’re pricing them.
And when you looking at these smaller deals I guess and I think you did three in the quarter is -- are you they’re just negotiating with you or tend to be a competitive bid situation in almost every case? A little of both.
We’ve had some isolated situations where people say ‘I’m ready.
Give me a fair price because again I think we know generally what these should clear for.
We ought to tell people there are no selling deals in this industry.
People know the markets pretty clear on both sides.
So you generally know what a fair price can be and so surprisingly we’ve seen a lot of deals where people will deal directly with us and say ‘give us a fair price because I want to work with SCI.
But we’ve been in competitive situations as well and I think we’ve won every one that we’ve wanted to win so far.
So not where….
Okay.
The other thing I was going to ask about was obviously nice uptake in pre-need both on cemetery and funeral side.
I guess with all the talk about slowdown – renewed slowdown in the economy possibility of a double dip I was a little surprised that you had as much strength as you did there.
I guess partly do you have anything to account for that? And second were you doing anything unusual in promotion activity or otherwise to try to spur growth and whatever the case? I mean what’s your sense about the back half on the pre-need side? Probably have three things I’d speak to.
First and foremost is the leadership and the execution of our sales team and our marketing team.
We are just knocking on all cylinders.
And I think people are focused on pre-need I think from the market leadership level all the way to the sales counselor.
And that’s had a big impact.
We spent a lot of money on training and we’re seeing the productivity counts that’s really rise.
I mentioned a little bit of that that caused some of the percentage cost of sale to go up.
So I think that’s the number one reason.
The second thing I would tell you is we’re a unique product in the sense that while we are somewhat discretionary as to timing I think people view this product as a planning opportunity.
They view it as doing something for their family and it’s a peace of mind product.
So even in difficult times; and I think severely difficult times people pull up.
But otherwise they kind of say I’ve got to take care of this.
So I don’t think we’re as impacted as negatively as other discretionary purchases might be.
The last thing to your point because things are difficult and I always point to our consumers are generally retired.
So job picture doesn’t have as big an impact on us.
But money market rates that are less than 1% on their savings gasoline prices that approach $4 these begin to pinch the consumer.
And so we have done some things as it relates to financing terms interest rates things like that but again we’re trying to do it in a very very responsible ways to ensure the quality of product.
So we have done some of those things and spent some money to keep the sales going.
But I consider both of those kind of secondary things to the quality of our sales force and the quality of our market management and sales leadership.
Okay all right.
That sounds good.
If there are no further questions I would like to turn the call back over to SCI management for closing remarks.
I want to thank everybody for being on the call today.
We look forward to speaking to you again in the I guess the later part of October to discuss third quarter.
Everybody have a great week.
Thanks again for participating.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Service Corporation International Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Keith and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later on we will have a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder today’s conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today SCI Management.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning this is Debbie Young Director of Investor Relations and as usual we’ll start with some prepared remarks and then we’ll take some questions.
Let me go through the Safe Harbor language real quick.
In our comments today we’ll make statements that are not historical facts and are forward-looking.
These are statements that are based on assumptions we believe are reasonable.
However there are many important factors that could cause our actual results in the future to differ materially from these forward-looking statements.
For more information related to these statements and other risk factors please review our filings with the SEC that are available on our website.
Also on the call today we may use terms such as normalized EPS or normalized or adjusted operating cash flow.
These are non-GAAP financial terms.
Please see our press release and 8-K that were issued yesterday where we have provided a detailed reconciliation to the appropriate GAAP measures.
With that we’ll get started with comments from Tom Ryan our President and CEO.
Thank you Debbie and thanks everybody for being on the call today.
The topics that I am going to cover in my prepared comments are to give an overview of key items in the quarter.
Then we’re going to follow it up with more detailed review of the funeral and cemetery operations each segment.
And finally I’m going to provide a little additional color on our 2012 outlook that we provided in the associated press release.
So to begin with we’re very pleased with the results of third quarter especially during this very pessimistic economic and consumer sentiment environment that we’re operating in.
So pleased to be able to execute the way we did.
If you look at free cash flow it’s something that’s pretty exciting.
We were able to increase that in the quarter by $35.7 million over the prior year and generated some approximately $160 million in free cash.
Our normalized earnings per share were $0.14 versus $0.13 in the prior year quarter.
If you think about it funeral profits were essentially flat that’s what we had communicating to you I believe on the last call that we would anticipate that to occur this quarter but we really knocked it out of the park for cemetery segment performance.
And that was primarily driven with cemetery profits by an outstanding pre-need property production in quarter and again I am very pleased to be able to do that.
Speaking of sales production pre-need funeral production and pre-need cemetery production both grew at very respectable high single-digit and low double-digit rates on a comparable store basis so again a great execution.
And finally we believe we’ll finish the year very strong.
As we disclosed in our press release we would increase our fiscal year 2011 earnings per share and operating cash flow guidance above the previous ranges and are projecting what we believe are very solid earnings per share and cash flow growth for 2012.
So now turning to funeral operations.
Overall the funeral segment performed as we anticipated during the third quarter.
We saw a strong growth in comparable sales average as well as an increase in general agency revenue on increased pre-need productions – pre-need funeral production which together more than offset the decline in volumes we experienced.
Comparable funeral revenues for the quarter grew 2.7% or roughly $9 million.
Of the $9 million increase $2 million was attributable to the shrinking of the Canadian currency which gets offset as you know through translated expenses.
So it really doesn’t generate any additional profit.
In addition to that $3 million of the increase was general agency revenues.
This again is essentially offset by associated selling costs to generate that general agency revenue.
So the remaining $4 million of revenue was the increase you’d expect we dropped to the bottom line.
And this was driven by impressive increases in our comparable sales average of 3.9% if you exclude the currency.
So this is pretty high step and I believe again with the environment that we’re operating in 2.9% of that increase is through walk-in increase and 1% was attributable to the fact that we had trust income.
So remember we did this with the cremation mix rate that changed by 270 basis points.
So I would say that this exceeded our expectations and again allowed us to generate cash and profits.
The increase in the sales average was offset by a 2.4% decline in same-store volume for the quarter which we believe is a reflection of the number of deaths that are occurring in our relevant markets.
Year-to-date our same-store volumes are down about 1.3% which is right where we’ve been modeling the entire year somewhere between 1% and 2%.
And so about where we thought it would be.
On the pre-need front remember these pre-need revenues don’t get recognized they go into the backlog.
Our comparable pre-need funeral sales production continues to impress by increasing $10.3 million or about 8% for the quarter.
From a profitability standpoint comparable funeral profits increased $350 000 so they are essentially flat.
The relevant operating revenue remember that I talked about before about $4 million increase that was generally offset by increase in advertising and lead generation expenses related to pre-need production as well as a little higher fuel burns spend and other inflationary cost increases.
As I pointed out in the last quarter’s call we anticipated selling compensation so this is a sales force costs to run about 14.5% from the quarter it did.
We thought comparable lead generation costs would run about $12 million in quarter and again it did this quarter.
As we looked forward into fourth quarter and into 2012 we would expect selling compensation remain at about the 14.5% level we would expect lead generation costs to level off as this $12 million rate and even maybe trend down into 2012.
Now switching gears over to the cemetery operations.
Our comparable cemetery revenue increased $15 million or 8.8% quarter-over-quarter.
This is mainly attributable to increased cemetery sales production predominantly profit of sales as the trust fund income was generally flat.
It’s up about $0.4 million.
We also recognized $3.5 million in other cemetery revenue that was associated with granting of property right easement at one of our cemetery location.
Comparable pre-need sales and remember pre-need we can drive versus at-need so we can go out and generate profits and cash.
That production grew more than $21 million in the quarter or about 23%.
Keep in mind that we still – the last time I’ll it but we’re dealing with that Canadian tax change last year so Canada was quite a growth over last year’s third quarter.
But even in the U.S.
we’re able to grow $13.6 million or 15.3%.
So the growth really is impressive even outside the Canadian operations.
But I can’t say enough about how proud I am with the outstanding efforts of our field management and our sales organization.
It’s a tremendous team effort.
Our cemetery profits grew at $4.6 million or just under 14% for the quarter and the margins increased 80 basis points to 20.3%.
For the $15 million increase in revenues one could expect more to drop to a profit line.
However we incurred $2 million in selling costs related to contracts written that the revenue was deferred and will be recognized in future period.
Additionally we had higher advertising and maintenance and bonus expense which puts a little pressure on the quarterly cemetery profits.
While traditionally one should expect lower cemetery revenues for the fourth quarter sequentially from the third quarter I would expect the margin percentage to be higher as we have a solid track record in managing these controllable costs when we apply the appropriate focus and we will.
Find the outlook that we provided in the release we provided fourth quarter 2011 as well as our initial outlook for 2012.
We’re expecting for the fourth quarter $0.16 to $0.19 in normalized earnings per share compared to $0.18 in the fourth quarter of 2010.
This brings our earnings per share expectations for the full-year 2011 to $0.62 to $0.65 which compares very favorably with 2010 normalized earnings per share of $0.59.
So growing somewhere in the high single-digits with 10% year-over-year.
So all in all 2011 looks to be a very good year.
Looking ahead to 2012 we anticipate impressive growth in both earnings and in cash flow.
Our earnings per share guidance range is $0.66 to $0.74 at the midpoint represents the 10% growth from the midpoint of our expected 2011 earnings per share.
As far as assumptions for you guys to begin to think about as you’re putting together your model we would anticipate funeral volumes will still be a challenge probably down in low single-digit ranges as we model 2012.
The funeral average will continue to grow in a low single-digit range absent currency and trust fund impact.
However we believe it’s going to grow more than what we’ve seen let’s say from late 2009 to early 2011 we’re kind of stuck in at 1% to 1.5% growth range.
If you noticed the last couple of quarters we’ve been able to move that up a bit.
This has been driven by a refreshed Dignity packaging and freight and we’re going back up and returning we changed up the Dignity packages.
And we believe it’s going to allow people to buy more of them and therefore generate more revenues and profits.
We also believe that our increase in backlog average is going to continue to go up because the quality of contracts that we’ve written over the last few years and the higher price that goes into the backlog again we’ll be rolling out as time goes on.
For our cemetery pre-need production growth we expect that to grow in the mid high single-digit range.
Funeral pre-need production should grow in the low to mid single-digit range in 2012.
Pre-need sales growth will be driven by continued training and development use of technology rolled out sales tablets to our sales force by institutionalizing our lead management system by continuing to grow community service sales and expanding our seminar program.
These things we think can allow us to grow at those rates.
We believe that marketing and advertising costs peaked in 2011 and they should moderate and trend down slightly as a percentage of sales production.
Segment margins will be impacted somewhat by increased personnel costs salaries and increases to health insurance that every company is going to experience.
So these inflationary costs increases would be somewhat negated by strategic initiatives or cemetery back office staffing and supply chain initiatives we think could drive down some costs to offset some of the increase.
We forecast the trust fund performance to range from low single-digit negative returns from here to mid single-digit positive returns.
Keep in mind our equity exposure is around 45% we’ll try to model that in that.
So in conclusion we’re very pleased with our performance in the quarter and in the first nine months of the year.
As we look ahead we still see some challenges of macro and industry specific.
We believe we are well positioned to execute impressive growth and value creation in this environment.
The cash flow characteristics to the business remains strong and we plan to continue to capitalize on value enhancing opportunities in 2012.
Remember our capital priorities.
Number one reinvesting in our core strategies on high return low risk projects like cemetery development property.
Number two strategic acquisitions and very appropriate returns.
We’ve been able to execute on that for the last couple of years and no reason we can’t do it in 2012.
Third returning cash to shareholders through share repurchases and the strategy of increasing our dividend overtime.
And lastly managing our debt liquidity profile by managing cash levels credit facility availability and near-term debt maturities to minimize the risk of SCI.
This concludes my prepared remarks.
And I’ll turn the call over to Eric.
Good morning.
I am going to talk about cash flow and trust fund performance as I normally do for the quarter but I am also going to give you some insight into what we think about those in terms of the fourth quarter as well 2012 initial outlook.
I’ll also briefly discuss the current financial position of liquidity and then comments about the capital deployment that we had during the quarter.
So let’s start with cash flow and let’s first talk about this current quarter the third quarter.
So the cash flow results for this quarter are outstanding and exceeded our internal expectations.
The operating cash flow grew nearly $36 million over the prior year quarter.
About $11 million of that increase was due to lower cash taxes and lower cash interests but predominant factor in that was higher cash receipts associated with at-need funeral revenues and strong pre-needs cemetery production which you saw in the income statement that bodes very well for our cash flow statement as well during the quarter.
Total CapEx for the quarter as you’ve seen was $29 million but the recurring expenditures for maintenance cemetery development was $26 million of that $29 million which is pretty similar amount in the prior quarters sequentially.
If you dug in these recurring capital spending items from the cash flow from operations we calculate our free cash flow for the third quarter to be about $90 million.
So looking forward to the fourth quarter as well as 2012 first let’s talk about 2011.
As our press release indicated we are expecting to generate about $75 million to $95 million of operating cash flow for the fourth quarter.
This brings the full-year 2011 expectations for this cash flow from ops to range of $370 million to $390 million.
This is an increase from the midpoint of the guidance range which we provided to you and talked about last quarter.
We believe the maintenance in cemetery development CapEx in the fourth quarter will approximate about $25 million.
And therefore when you look at an annual basis for 2011 the recurring CapEx will land in the upper end of the guidance range of about $105 million.
So what will this result in? It will result in a free cash flow revised guidance about $265 million to $285 million for the full-year of 2011.
So in terms of per share basis this represents approximately a $1.11 to the $1.20 of free cash flow per share for the full-year 2011.
And that’s using a fully diluted share account of about $238 million and that represents a growth of about 9% from fiscal 2010.
Secondly let’s look ahead to 2012.
We believe we’ll continue in 2012 our proven trend of generating attractive operating cash flow.
The guidance range property cash flow is $375 million to $425 million.
It generally reflects higher anticipated earnings that Tom has described earlier today but will offset somewhat by higher cash tax.
So cash taxes in 2012 are expected to get increased to a range of about $20 million to $30 million.
And this compares to cash taxes of about $12 million that we’re expecting full-year of 2011.
The other working capital changes within the cash flow statements are expected to be somewhat similar to 2011 levels.
Capital spending in 2012 will also be similar to 2011 levels and $95 million to $105 million with a maintenance and cemetery development and will probably have an initial $10 million or so for other growth capital expenditures.
So when you deduct our maintenance and cemetery development expenditures from the operating cash flow we did anticipate the free cash flow in 2012 to range from $270 million to $230 million.
So again on a per share basis this equates to about a $1.18 to a $1.45 for 2012 and that’s used in a fully diluted share account about 228 million shares that we are modeling for 2012.
As a midpoint of this range this represents a growth of about 14% over the expected 2011 free cash flow per share.
And I talked about cash taxes but I’d like to briefly shift back to the income statement and comment on the tax rates.
From an effective tax rate standpoint in the third quarter our normalized effective tax rate was lower than what we anticipated at about 34.7% and this is due primarily to changes in our tax accruals which resulted from filing tax returns during the third quarter and also various state tax planning initiatives.
For the fourth quarter of 2011 and for the full-year of 2012 we are currently modeling a normalized effective tax rate of approximately 37%.
Now let’s get into our trust fund.
As we all know it was a tough financial market in August and September.
Our combined trust fund declined below over 7% in third quarter bringing the year-to-date trust fund performance to down 3.3%.
The total trust fund recognized though in our income statement for the third quarter was just under $24 million about $4 million higher in the third quarter of 2010 but in total was generally what we anticipated on a sequential basis.
The down market in September did not materially impact our third quarter trust fund income because we recorded net realized and unrealized gains and losses on approximate 30 day lag.
So expect to see some downward pressure on trust fund income recognized in the early part of the fourth quarter.
However if the current October market performance holds we’ll expect this to be somewhat offset during the fourth quarter as well.
For the next year in 2012 our outlook assumes that our trust funds will realize an annual return in the low single-digit percentage range.
I’ll turn into our financial position and liquidity.
The cash balance at the end of the quarter was about $127 million and today we have about $100 million.
During the third quarter we funded about $65 million on our $500 million credit facility.
$40 million of this was reimbursed for our debt repurchase that we made year-to-date.
Now this essentially converts 7% debt to roughly 2% debt.
And the other $25 million was used for acquisitions in the third quarter.
This action allows us to use our free cash flow for share repurchases when the free cash flow yield spiked in August and September and I’ll update you on that in a minute.
But in terms of credit availability we still have a little over $400 million of borrowing capacity on our bank credit facility.
This represents a $65 million drawn I just discussed and about $33 million of letters of credit.
We intent to leave this $65 million drawn to enable us to pursue more favorable capital deployment opportunities with our free cash flow because remember this is essentially 2% debt.
It doesn’t mature until 2016.
We continue to add substantial liquidity and a great deal debt maturity profile that positions us well to explore value enhancing opportunities as we have no meaningful debt maturities until 2014.
Now let’s talk about the capital deployment during the quarter.
From an acquisition standpoint during the third quarter we closed on transactions for a total spend of about $31 million as you can see reported in our cash flow from investing activities.
Remember about $25 million of this was funded through our credit portfolio [ph].
During our third quarter we also continued our share repurchase program and repurchased about 9.3 million shares for a total investment of about $91 million.
And subsequent to the end of the quarter we bought another 1.2 million shares for approximately $11.7 million.
As of today we currently have a 138 million remaining on our existing share repurchase authorization and our current shares outstanding are down to about 226 million shares.
Debt repurchases during the quarter totaled about $15 million as again we modestly continued to proactively manage our near-term maturities.
In summary from a capital deployment perspective thus far year-to-date in 2011 through today we directed over a $155 million towards our share repurchases close to a $100 million to acquisitions about $33 million to deploy related to our dividend and $43 million to debt repurchases as well.
So in conclusion this was a great quarter for us.
We expect to continue our momentum in the remainder of this year.
Our outlook for 2012 is for positive growth in earnings as well as cash flow.
And again the cash flow continues to be the success story here and what sets us apart in this time of financial market uncertainty.
We’re getting to 2005 and that’s when we really developed our current operating platform and we also embarked on our growth strategy.
Our free cash flow per share has grown around 9% on a compounded annual growth rate and we are very proud of this execution.
We believe this existing cash flow and high free cash flow yield coupled with a strong balance sheet great liquidity and a favorable debt maturity profile raises a very attractive investment going forward.
So with that that concludes our prepared remarks.
And we’ll go ahead.
Keith can turn it over to you to get questions from the group.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question is from the line of A.
J.
Rice with Susquehanna Financial Group.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Hello everybody.
Maybe Eric can you just break out or give us a little flavor at least for the impact that Neptune had in the quarter.
I am assuming it’s consolidated now and it’s fully reflected in the quarter? Yes we’ve been obviously operating with Neptune since June.
Right.
What we had and it’s a little bit tricky to see where they get categorized but overall we got about $14 million of revenue reported in the quarter.
And the preponderance of the revenue is going to be shown in other revenue because it’s the sale of what I would call merchandize.
And that merchandize gets recognized when we deliver it.
And then the service side the revenue again will get reported like every other funeral profit.
And that’s a contract that’s associated with the number of death [ph].
So but together it’s about $10.5 million in other revenue and then the preponderance or the rest of it $4 million is close through normal funeral operations.
And the way to think about Neptune because I think we told you before they generally are going to earn about a 10% to 12% margin.
So as you think about that from an OP perspective and a little more when you think about EBITDA.
So the run rate of $6 million and it would be probably closer to $8 million or $9 million in EBITDA.
And the exciting thing about Neptune is the growth possibilities.
We actually have just opened three new offices I think in Minnesota Chicago and Detroit.
And those where you’re going to see some of the growth as we go forward and open new sites in 2012 and 2013.
Yes okay.
And I may have missed it but talking about your assumptions for 2012 have you said anything about your thoughts on stock buyback? I think our thoughts on stock buyback again depending on where the price level is which show you the velocity of our share buyback.
But I think when we think about it we’ve built in kind of moderate approach to that for 2012.
And again the prices rise you’ll see an aggressive approach but we fully expect to be in the market buying back shares in 2012.
All right and then my last question would just be the mention about buying back some bonds.
Is that driven by the recent volatility in the credit markets or is that sort of still part of the ongoing desire to deal with maturities through open market purchase.
Just give us some flavor for what you’re doing there? It’s really the later A.J.
as you could tell it was a very modest and it’s when good opportunities come in the sense of pricing but in the sense of managing our near-term maturities but our first maturity is not till October 2014.
You should you know notice that the large discrepancy in terms of the spend buying our shares back at this free cash flow yield versus buying any bonds back.
So as the world is completely changing I think you should consider that as that trend is well going forward in 2012.
Okay.
It sounds good.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question is from the line of Clint Fendley with Davenport.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning guys and very nice results in a tough environment here.
First question I wondered Eric what your cemetery margins would have been actually you had excluded the benefit from the property rights easement.
The property rights easement was just around $3 million or so.
So we’ll have to do that math it would move in a little bit but it wouldn’t be overly material at all.
Okay.
And I guess any thoughts on how Neptune impacted the cremation mix during the quarter because I guess this is about the probably the third quarter when we really had an accelerated rate of change in that mix now? Yes it definitely impacted they are consolidate somewhat but again its probably on that contract that probably might have (inaudible).
So but I think there is a number of that we disclosed the year plan in the press release it’s still the comparable numbers.
So it wouldn’t be in that.
So we’re experiencing a lift in cremation that’s more accelerated than I think anybody anticipated outside of Neptune.
And is there any color that you guys can offer maybe even just on geography I mean it’s just happening in more traditional areas like the Southeast or is it in higher acceptance markets like maybe Arizona or Florida? Yes surprisingly I’d say we’re seeing it more in the East Coast both the Southeast and the Northeast places like Maine which is already high rate but significant jump there and significant jump in the Southeast.
But I’d say more in the East Coast but really everywhere that’s where we’re seeing probably little bit more of acceleration.
And I guess from a management perspective I mean given that the rate of change that we’ve seen the acceleration of that change are you doing anything differently now to respond to what is now a higher rate? Well I think what we’ve always done Clint is making sure that to us if the cremation or burials or choice it really doesn’t matter.
The purposing is the foot the products and services that may extend to safe line value in front of us.
So we’re doing that in a lot of ways through our Dignity packaging and obviously our pre-need basis through Neptune.
But I wouldn’t say there is anything different on a national scale.
I think every market has a certain level of cremation and when you look at the infrastructure there is always plans built in as that increases it may changes away that you staff and it may change the way that you run your fleet it may change the way you think about your footprint in that market.
But that’s really kind of a local driven strategy.
Okay.
And last question as you look at your business you guys historically have done a very nice job of gaining efficiencies taking out unnecessary costs.
Is there anything as you look across your business today when there are opportunities going forward that maybe we could look forward to think about for next year or even beyond for additional efficiencies? Yes I think there is quite a few surprisingly.
I think every time we look back a lot of its going to be driven by metrics.
You’ve heard us Clint talk a lot about putting metrics in different places so we can be more effective.
And I’d say that continues to be the story on the sales front.
We’re very metrics driven.
We started it kind of with our funeral operations and I’d say there is still more room there as we move markets to more efficient use of personnel.
But in particularly we’ve got a couple of things going.
One is I think on the procurement side we’ve done a great job.
The leadership there of finding new ways to stay on the way that we purchase items.
We’re looking at a system that’s going to probably allow us do more of that as we move into 2012 2013.
In addition like I said before we’re utilizing technologies to drive that.
We now have sales tablets for all our sales counselors someday soon we’ll be writing those contracts on those sales tablets to eliminate a lot of the duplicate effort of pre-including contracts.
It will reduce mistakes that are made that we have to go back and fix later.
So I look for particularly on the cemetery side probably it’s going to be the bigger focus where you’ll see some cost driven down in 2012 and into 2013.
Okay thanks.
That’s helpful and I am sorry just one last more.
When I look back at your free cash flow growth it maybe results growth of 9% in sense with 2005.
We’re looking forward now to an environment where at least demographically it may be easier for the next two years to sell that the higher numbers of people but yet we may not see that the death rate moving up yet I mean is there anything about that type of environment? How should we think about your free cash flow growth prospects in the next couple of three years relative to what could be those demographic trends and the increased opportunities in pre-need before we actually see the volumes moving up here? Yes I think from a cash flow perspective if we can grow pre-need funeral I am sorry pre-need cemetery properties for example to the extent we can continue to grow that.
That is very cash flow positive for us because as you know Clint we don’t trust any money related to that so whatever we can sell and collect is cash flow growth.
On the funeral side its slightly negative in the sense that we generate if we sell an insurance contract about 20% G&amp;A revenue to fund a lot of what we we’re running right now for probably in the 22% to 23% all in with lead generation costs and the selling costs.
We’re working on managing that down but as you grow pre-need funeral you may see a slight degradation in the cash flow but we think it’s a smart thing to do.
So I think that coupled with the savings that coupled with the fact that we’re pretty excited about some of the revenue opportunities.
I really think we’re trying to find new products and services new revenue streams to help us grow that very very difficult comp revenue line.
So we model our cash flow we’re still very pleased with I think over the next few years our ability to generate new cash.
Eric will tell you we probably will pay a little more taxes as we go into future not a lot.
And that’s going to put a little bit of pressure on cash flow.
But I’d say our projections for operations will more than compensate for that and allow us to continue to grow the cash flow per share over the next few years.
Great thank you and again nice quarter.
Thank you Clint.
And your next question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed.
Hi Tom Eric did you spend the $31 million was that all Neptune or was there anything else that you did in the quarter? No it wasn’t Neptune.
Neptune was at the end of the second quarter.
It was about five different things one was in the Virginia area that was the lion’s share of that.
But it just various deals that we’re starting to do now.
Okay that’s right.
Neptune was June 3rd or something? Yes it was.
Okay I got you I am sorry.
And just – yes I’m sorry.
The deal in Alexandria Virginia we believe it was a pretty significant about a $10 million revenue business so we’re privileged [ph].
Okay.
And just the pre-need cemetery production that continues to track these high levels what kind of expectations do you have on that side I mean what kind of tampering have you done reflecting the economy I mean do we keep running at this rate or would you model out in fact going forward? On the cemetery job? Yes.
I think we think this year has been an extraordinary year.
I think it would be hard to replicate double-digit growth on the cemetery side not impossible but not the way we model it.
I do think on the cemetery side we think we can grow at a high single-digits with a lot of things that we’re doing and that again is the comparable store Bob so it’s not going to be from acquisitions it’s going to from better lease bigger sales force and generating core profit.
So that’s probably where we guide you the model.
I am not saying it can’t be done just hard to do that consistently.
Okay.
And just on the better cash receipts that I think you called out on the funeral business.
Can you give us – I mean are people are paying you sooner why would they I guess would be my question? It’s really just managing it as well as we can I mean our field management has done a tremendous job of keeping up with our metrics such as days sales outstanding and now looking at the aging on the receivables.
And they are really doing a phenomenal job continuing to make receivable collections even better.
And then of course when you’re selling pre-need cemetery property like Tom mentioned earlier you’re not trusting that Bob.
So you’re getting that cash right away for the most part and when we had the great spike in sales we’re getting a great spike in cash as well.
And those two things that really drove the cash flow increases for the quarter.
Yes Bob Eric is right.
When you think about almost the entirety of our growth on cemetery in all property.
So you think about revenues and the cash associated with those revenues.
We’re putting – the growth we’re getting is the best cash flow growth.
Yes I think that’s driving the cash relative to the earnings.
Wonderful.
And you mentioned I think I thought I heard you say Tom you are opening up more offices for Neptune.
Are there other kinds of things that you’re doing is there some margin degradation we should expect to see for Neptune before we see more accretion coming in what anecdotally are you looking to do with that asset? Well we’re looking to grow it.
I think that in fairness to Neptune we’d only been involved for four months.
So I think there are things that are already in motion.
One is from a merchandize perspective we’re beginning to leverage that we haven’t seen the numbers yet.
I think there is some other synergies that are going to take some time to get in the business probably we aren’t going to see those except in the 2012 but the thing we’re probably most excited about is the ability to grow this and put it in new markets like I said we’ve got three new markets we’re going to enter in 2011 we already entered them actually but we’ll begin to see those results.
And I think we would expect to see somewhere in the 5 to 7 to 8 range of offices opened in 2012 and maybe the same in ‘013.
And those staff drive and I think Marco and his team know how to do it best could be up and running profitable very very fast.
Particularly I was looking at Minnesota last night out of the gates I think very very well.
So we’re excited about that.
But again I think you got to put it over the context what I said Neptune probably in year one we are modeling call it $6 million in operating profit.
And we can grow that on a percentage basis I think pretty good but when you put it with the SCI it’s going to be helpful but there is lot of things we’re going to have to do to drive future profitability.
Right great.
Thank you.
Thank you Bob.
Thanks Bob.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question is from the line of Nicholas Jansen with Raymond James.
Please proceed.
Hi guys thanks for all the color on the cash flow just one quick question a lot of its been answered already but in terms of the M&amp;A landscape what are you seeing there certainly you’re close to $100 million in acquisition spend this year.
It’s a pretty good number with no maturities and so kind of 2014 just kind of your perspectives on balancing kind of share repurchase dividends and acquisitions? Thanks.
I think on the balance question it all gets back to evaluation what are the pricing and the deals that we see relative to the price of SCI stock from a free cash flow yield perspective with that.
I think our expectation would be that we continue to see yields out there we think we can execute on that.
I think it’s a level of $100 million if you back out Neptune we’d probably spend somewhere closer to $50 million $60 million this year.
That’s probably a more realistic thought about next year in the sense that you’re not notifying something in the size of the Neptune every day.
So I think that’s very achievable.
I think at those reasonable rates.
But it’s really hard to tell when these things are going to close and when people are going to be more excited.
And I’d love to tell you little bit more maybe I will but at this point in time it’s probably a reasonable thought as you think about cash flow use in 2012.
And is there any – sorry is there any increase kind of competition obviously some of the public guys are certainly talking more and more about acquisitions.
So just any upward pressure on the multiple for the one-off transactions and for let’s say a bigger one like the Alexandria one in Virginia? We haven’t seen any of the deals in we’ve closed.
I would tell you prospectively though that that would be my anticipation that you’re probably going to see a little more activity and when there is little more activity you’re going to see that moving the price.
But we’re going to be very disciplined about what we want to buy and what we’re willing to pay for because there are other options as you look at our share price and look at the free cash flow yields that Eric was talking about perform in 2012.
If the deals aren’t there at the right prices then we got something else to do with money.
Thanks.
And then I guess just last one in terms of cash taxes certainly you guys have done a great job managing that and it looks like it’s been flat to down over the last four or five years.
I know you’re expecting it to increase to let’s say $20 million to $30 million next year but when should we think about that moving much higher than that because it seems like if you go back and looking at the model looks like it’s been pretty steady around $20 million for last couple of years.
So any thoughts on cash taxes would be helpful? Thanks.
Well one of the reasons why it’s been helpful as we continue to execute on good tax planning and that has shielded some of our taxes if you remember Nick I talked to you about in tax accounting change we did this year sorry last year at this time and that’s helped us.
In terms of the shielding from NOLs that we have we still have – our estimates are at the end of this year we’d still have $225 million to $250 million of NOLs the shield futures.
So you can’t use all of that right away because if you remember as we talked about before the Alderwoods situation doesn’t allow you to use it all at once and that’s a good amount of that.
But as you see we’ll start going a little bit higher in 2012 absent tax planning opportunities but you could obviously say our track record is continue to tax plan and then as Tom said it will start creeping up in 2013 and 2014 absent things we don’t planning opportunities we haven’t executed as of now.
But we don’t think that it’s something that is just as huge win [ph] that’s coming that we can’t overcome with all of the free cash flow growth that we have built into the operational segments and all of things we are doing that Tom has mentioned clearly achieves to that.
Let’s say just by the nature of our tax balance sheet even at the higher levels we’re really talking probably about spending $30 million to $40 million a year in cash taxes and again like Eric pointed to operationally we can overcome that that’s not a big number for us.
Well that’s all I had.
Great quarter guys thanks for all the details.
Thanks Nick.
And there are no other questions.
So I’d like to turn the call back over to SCI management for closing remarks.
I want to thank everybody for joining us on the call here today.
And we’ll be talking to you next year in 2012.
Thank you again.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for joining us and you can now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 Service Corporation International Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Diana and I’ll be the Operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instruction) As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today the SCI Management.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
This is Debbie Young Director of Investor Relations for SCI.
Thanks for joining us today.
As usual we’ll start with some prepared remarks from management and then we’ll take some of your questions.
But first let me go through the Safe Harbor language.
In our comments today we will make statements that are not historical facts and are forward-looking.
These statements are based on assumptions that we believe are reasonable.
However there are many important factors that could cause our actual results in the future to differ materially from these forward-looking statements.
For more information related to these statements and other risk factors please review our filings with the SEC that are available on our website.
Also on the call today we will use the terms normalized EPS and free cash flow.
These are non-GAAP financial terms.
For reconciliation of normalized EPS to EPS calculated in accordance with GAAP please see our press release and 8-K that were issued yesterday.
For free cash flow and free cash flow per share we would refer you to a presentation that we posted on our website yesterday under Webcasts &amp; Presentations that will give you the supporting calculations and reconciliations to GAAP cash flow.
With that we’ll start with comments from Tom Ryan SCI’s President and CEO.
Thank you Debbie and thanks everybody for being on the call today.
Before I go into a more detailed review of the quarter I’d like to step back a moment and look at our results and accomplishments that we achieved during the year 2011.
All in all we look back at 2011; we’re very pleased with our operating performance.
I’d like to first thank my 21 000 teammates at SCI for making this happen because without their contributions we wouldn’t be able to print results like this.
Earnings per share grew a little more than 10% year-over-year reported $0.65 in 2011 and $0.59 earnings per share in 2010.
This was on the high-end of our previous guidance of $0.62 to $0.65.
As we’ve discussed previously and setting expectations for financial performance in the near-to-mid term as you think about our segments we’ve pointed out that it’s our opinion that funeral is going to be challenging to grow.
This is predominantly because our GAAP revenues are tied to the event of death and it’s our expectation that we’ll continue to see a challenging number of deaths in the near-term.
In addition to this we’re going to put further pressure in the fact that we believe we should grow the preneed backlog because the day is coming and we continue to do that.
And in doing so we generate selling expenses and those selling expenses again put pressure on our margins.
Having said that we think it’s – we’re going to generate a lot of cash in our Funeral business and that is the case for 2011.
If you look at our reported results for 2011 we’ve managed our expenses very well.
We generated a significant amount of cash flow in the incremental preneed selling costs; put a little pressure on our comparable margins.
But again this was part of the plan.
We finished the year with a growth in comparable revenues of $21.7 million in the Funeral segment or 1.5% and an increase in gross profit of $7.7 million or 2.6%.
And therefore we were able to actually raise the gross margin percentage by about 20 basis points in the Funeral segment.
Having said that when we set expectations for cemetery we’ve always pointed out to you guys that this is the place that we can actually drive some growth.
We’re able to recognize our GAAP purchases property sales and to the extent we can grow those sales we can grow the related margins.
So again as we look at 2011 cemetery is our growth engine.
Comparable cemetery revenues in 2011 up more than $47 million or about 7% for the year in gross profits up close to $16 million or about 12% and that is a 90 basis point improvement in the margin.
Perhaps most notable as it relates to generating cemetery growth we achieved a 12.3% increase in preneed cemetery sales production and therefore a 7% increase in preneed funeral sales against a backdrop of very negative consumer environment.
We’re very pleased with those results and that’s really what drove the earnings per share on the cemetery side.
And then most importantly to us we generated roughly $280 million of free cash flow and with this free cash flow we returned about $245 million to you our shareholders through a combination of share repurchases which for 2011 amounted to about 20 million shares at about $200 million and through $45 million worth of dividends.
Additionally we directed more than a $100 million to strategic acquisitions and growth projects.
Now shifting to an overview of the quarter we posted solid results in the fourth quarter both earnings and cash flow were at the high-end of our guidance ranges discussed back in October.
Normalized earnings per share increased $0.01 to $0.19 versus $0.18 in the prior year quarter.
Free cash flow increased $7.5 million over the prior year quarter to $66 million.
Our funeral profits were flat on lower than expected funeral volumes offset by better than expected average improvements and prudent cost management.
But the Cemetery segment performance was very strong.
The primary driver of the cemetery profits for the quarter was increased recognized preneed property revenues associated with construction projects.
Now to an overview of the funeral operations.
Funeral volumes were down more than we had originally anticipated and more than we’ve experienced in the last several quarters.
But we were able to manage our expenses well which helped to keep the profits flat despite a decline in revenues.
We also saw strong growth in the comparable average sale and an increase in general agency revenue on increased preneed funeral sales production.
For the quarter comparable funeral revenues declined 2.3% to $350.6 million.
Our same-store volumes were down 5.7% in the quarter worse than we had originally anticipated.
Now for the full year our same-store volumes were down 2.5% which was generally in line with our original expectations for 2011.
In the fourth quarter our funeral average grew by 2.6% which takes into account higher trust fund income and an unfavorable Canadian currency effect.
Excluding the currency and trust fund income impacts we experienced a growth rate of 2.1%.
This is especially impressive considering our cremation mix grew by 210 basis points to 44.7% for the fourth quarter.
From a profitability standpoint comparable funeral profits declined less than a $1 million and the reported margins were relatively flat.
We managed our operating costs well in a very soft funeral environment particularly in the month of December.
Lastly as I touch upon funeral I’ll talk about preneed funeral sales production.
Again this is the key element of our long-term strategy and we continue to see impressive growth.
Our comparable preneed funeral sales production continued to impress by increasing 15% in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Now shifting to the cemetery operations our comparable cemetery revenue increased about $9 million or 4.9% quarter-over-quarter.
This was mainly attributable to higher recognized revenue associated with new construction property also our trust fund income increased $1.9 million.
Our comparable preneed sales and remember preneed we can drive a lot more than atneed that’s rely upon the event of death that production grew about 1% quarter-over-quarter.
And remember we’re comparing against a very strong fourth quarter of 2010 and so our performance for the quarter I thought was actually very good.
And when you compare the first nine months of 2011 this made a very challenging quarter-over-quarter comparison.
And I think again that the numbers we rang up we’re very impressed by it.
So for the year if you step back our total cemetery preneed sales production was up nearly $50 million or 12.3%.
I’m really proud of the outstanding efforts of our field management and our sales organization in generating double-digit growth in today’s consumer environment.
On the revenue growth cemetery profits grew $4.5 million or 11.6% for the quarter and our margins increased 130 basis points to 22.7%.
Now for some thoughts about 2012 as indicated in our press release we are affirming our guidance for normalized earnings per share that we provided to you last quarter in the range of $0.66 per share to $0.74 per share.
At the mid point of our 2012 earnings per share guidance it represents about an 8% growth over 2011.
You keep in mind there were few things in 2011 which are repeatable in 2012 and therefore I think when you think about more normalized compression we’re actually growing above 10% year-over-year a lot of favorable trends that we believe are going to happen.
On some broad assumptions for 2012 we believe the funeral revenues will again be tough to grow.
This is because funeral volumes we believe will still be challenging and we’re forecasting that to be down low-single digits for the entire year.
The most effective way to compact this in the future is with growing our backlog.
And we expect to focus on that into grow preneed funeral sales in the low to mid-single digit range.
We believe that our funeral average will continue to grow in the low-single digit range absent currency and trust fund impacts and this will be in the pace of increasing cremation mix which you know make it challenging to continue to grow this number when you combine that with a current negative consumer environment.
So how we’re going to do it? We’re going to do it by – it’s going to be driven by refreshed Dignity packaging.
We’ve refreshed those packages we’ve got new materials new training we allow a lot more flexibility in the products that people can select and it’s our belief that we’re going to be able to grow the number of packages which will expand consumer spend.
We’ve tested this in Main Street it’s been very successful and we’ll be rolling this out throughout the year in 2012 both in our metro markets and in our major markets.
In addition to this we had launched a receptions and events category if you will.
And again as we launched this we’ve seen consumer spend putting things that are relevant in front of our consumers and they’re buying.
And so we expect that to again help our average revenue per case in conjunction with our inflationary pricing that we do [each year].
So we believe that those things will have a positive effect and allow us even with a lot of these headwinds to grow the average revenue per case and be helpful to the preneed revenue line.
On the cemetery side revenues will continue to grow led by our preneed production.
And we believe that growth will be in the mid-to-high single digit range for 2012 even coming off that 12% growth from last year.
So a challenge to our team but I think we are up for it.
Preneed sales growth will be driven by continued training and development use of technology further utilization of our lead management systems growth in the community service sales arena as well as the expansion of our seminar program on a national basis.
The segment margins will be impacted by increased personnel cost salaries and health insurance costs.
Having said that these inflationary costs will be somewhat negated by our streamlining initiatives within our supply chain group as well as leveraging technology in our cemetery administration back-office.
As we look ahead we’re very excited about 2012.
Expected growth in earnings and cash flow This concludes my prepared comments.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Eric Tanzberger our Chief Financial Officer.
Good morning everyone.
I’m going to start and talk about 2011 specifically on very favorable results in which we produced about $280 million in free cash flow which again landed at the high-end of our guidance range that we discussed on our last call which was at the end of October.
This represents $1.18 of free cash flow per share and most importantly a 13.5% growth over 2010’s free cash flow per share of $1.04.
And again these numbers are reconciled to the GAAP numbers in the presentation or website as Debbie mentioned at the beginning of the call.
This robust cash flow continues to be our strength here at SCI.
And as we’ve mentioned in many times before since 2005 and again that’s when we developed our current operating platform and embarked on our growth strategy.
But since 2005 through the end of 2011 our free cash flow per share has grown at a compounded annual growth rate of about 10%.
And we believe this is the compelling story from an investment standpoint especially in today’s top economic environment.
So through this morning I’m going to walk you through the details of this cash flow and also touch on the trust fund performance for the quarter and the year and give you some color on our outlook for 2012.
And I am going to also briefly discuss how we deployed this free cash flow in 2011 to grow the company and again to enhance shareholder value.
So from a cash flow from a quarterly perspective in the fourth quarter our cash flow from operations was just under $97 million and this exceeded the previous guidance we gave you in October of $75 million to $95 million.
It was driven by higher EBITDA and higher cash receipts and this was partially offset by higher cash interest payments.
And the cash interest during the quarter was about $7 million higher than the fourth quarter of last year.
And this is really related to timing differences as a result of the new senior notes that we issued in November of 2010.
Maintenance CapEx in our cemetery development CapEx and again we sum those together as the two components that we consider our recurring CapEx.
So those two components for the quarter came in a little higher than we expected at about $30 million a fair amount of this was related to the completion of some cemetery property projects which benefited cemetery revenues and earnings in the quarter as Tom mentioned earlier in the call.
When we deduct this recurring capital spending from cash flow from ops we calculate our free cash flow for the fourth quarter to be about $66 million which is a growth of nearly 13% or $7.5 million over 2010.
I shift into the full year of 2011 cash flow from ops grew $33 million to about $388 million.
The recurring CapEx which you saw in our press release is about $109 million so the free cash flow again for the full year of 2011 ended at about $279 million.
This compares to $260 million in 2010 and again this represents a healthy growth of over 7% primarily on higher EBITDA and earnings.
We are very proud of this growth and then as Tom said I want to give the credit to all of our associates out in our field operations who really helped to make this happen.
And shifting more to an outlook for 2012 in terms of cash flow we expect to continue to generate this attractive operating cash flow and we remain comfortable with the 2012 guidance we discussed in October and that was $375 million to $425 million of cash flow from operations The recurring CapEx guidance remains unchanged as well $95 million to $105 million which result in anticipated free cash flow in 2012 in a range of $270 million to $330 million.
On a per share basis this equates to about $1.20 to $1.47 for 2012 and this calculation is used in our fully diluted weighted average share count of 225 million shares that’s what we’re modeling for 2012.
At the midpoint of this guidance which is $1.33 per share this represents a growth of nearly 13% over our 2011 free cash flow per year.
This guidance generally reflects higher anticipated EBITDA that will be somewhat offset by higher cash taxes but also include less recurring CapEx as I just described to you.
Speaking to cash taxes in 2012 we’re expecting those to be in a range of $20 million to $30 million and this compares to cash taxes of approximately $30 million thus spent in 2011.
Now when you look beyond 2012 as we continue to utilize our net operating losses we believe our cash taxes will likely start climbing to a range of about $30 million to $40 million in 2013 and perhaps get to the point where we will become a full cash tax payer in the 2014 time period.
But again as we’ve said before even when we are a full cash taxpayer our cash tax rate will still be lower than our effective rate and the cash tax rate will probably be in the range of about 25% due to temporary differences.
Keep in mind as well when we’re talking about taxes that our IRS audits disclosed in our filings continue to progress.
It is reasonably possible that we could reach some type of conclusion in the near-term which could result in additional non-recurring cash tax payments but again as we’ve said before nothing that we would expect to affect our liquidity.
Shifting to trust funds we benefited from the favorable trends in the financial markets in the fourth quarter as it relates to our trust fund performance as you saw in our press release.
The total trust fund income that we recognized off of these funds in our income statement for the fourth quarter was just under $26 million which compared to just over $22 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our guidance for trust fund returns in 2012 remains unchanged and recall that we are assuming that our consolidated trust fund assets will realize an annual positive return in the low single-digit percentage range and that’s what we built into our models.
Now as I’ve described at the beginning let’s talk a little bit about the deployment of this great free cash flow that we had during the quarter.
First of all we had no meaningful acquisitions and we didn’t do any really debt repurchases in the fourth quarter while we continue to buyback our outstanding shares.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased just over 5 million shares for a total investment of just over $50 million.
For the full year of 2011 we bought just under 20 million shares for a total investment of $195 million $196 million.
In subsequent to the end of the year we bought another approximately 1.7 million shares for investment just over $80 million.
This activity resulted in about $80 million left on our authorization with approximately 222 million shares outstanding as we speak.
And as you probably saw yesterday we did a press release which announced an increase in our share repurchase capacity by about $120 million which gives our total current authorization today of $200 million in share repurchase capacity.
It’s a great year for us in summary for 2011.
Again we generated $280 million in free cash flow.
With this cash flow as well as the cash we have on hand we directed close to $200 million to our share repurchases more than $100 million to acquisitions and growth capital spending and $45 million upon our quarterly dividend on an annual basis.
Additionally we refinanced about $45 million of our existing debt from a high – from high yielding bonds to our revolver and lower interest rates.
And again this was while we were maintaining a 3.1 times net debt-to-EBITDA leverage ratio which were described before as generally our leverage target.
So when we enter 2012 we entered 2012 financially strong with a very solid balance sheet.
We continue to have substantial liquidity and a great debt maturity profile that positions us well to explore value-enhancing opportunities as we really have no meaningful debt maturities until October 2014.
We anticipate a 13% growth in free cash flow per share over 2011 and that again is at the midpoint of our 2012 guidance.
And also the 2012 midpoint represents 11% to 13% free cash flow yield on our current share price.
We remain committed to deploy this free cash flow prudently and to pursue value-added investments that will grow earnings and most importantly cash flow as well as return value to our shareholders.
So Operator that concludes our prepared remarks this morning on the quarter.
And now we’ll be happy to open it up to investor questions please.
(Operator Instructions) And the first question will come from the line of John Ransom Raymond James.
Please proceed.
Inc.</strong> Hey good morning.
Just I got a couple of things Eric.
If you look at your GAAP earnings and free cash flow could you breakdown just kind of refresh us on what the factors are between GAAP earnings and cash flow? I don’t know you have cash factors cash interest and cemetery land amortization but I just want to make sure we get all the pieces there.
Thanks.
And this is for your 2012 guidance.
You know we really reconciled John as you know from EBITDA.
EBITDA was right around $555 million $560 million for the year.
There is two pieces of what you described non-cash </strong> and you and I talked about this is non-cash stock compensation which is somewhere around $9 million to $10 million and also provision for doubtful accounts which is also about $9 million to $10 million.
That kind of gets you to let’s call it around $575 million of EBITDA we’ve told you about the $130 million in cash interest I did described to you the cash taxes of about $13 million.
And then the difference is working capital.
And again we have a use of working capital consistent with last year of about $45 million on our cash flow statement.
And again that gets to the use of cash as we drive preneed sales both in the cemetery side and a preneed funeral trust sales as well.
And if you do that math that’s going to get you right around $385 million $390 million of cash flow from operations on the cash flow statement for the full year.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Secondly what’s – maybe this is for Tom but any update on Neptune? Well Neptune is progressing as we’d expected it too.
I think from a revenue perspective and from a new home opening perspective from the storefronts that’s going really really well.
And as we anticipated it’s going to take a little bit of time to integrate them put them on our systems and some of the savings that are associated with that are going to be generated in 2012 and aren’t there yet.
So we’re very pleased with where we are today everything is on track and excited to have them as part of our team.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thirdly have you noticed any change at all when you look at acquisitions are you still able to price those in a way that’s accretive to your free cash flow per share? Absolutely.
I mean I think even beyond that because we’re looking at the internal rate of return versus our weighted average cost of capital.
So in today’s environment everything is pretty incremental.
But we’re being very very selective about who strategically and getting the right returns for our shareholders.
So yeah we would still see the pipeline pretty active out there.
I think a lot of anticipation about tax rate changes and capital gains has probably got some people thinking a little harder about where they want to be in 2013 and beyond.
So we’re out there getting in front of people and we believe that there’ll be a healthy pipeline of deals in 2012.
Inc.</strong> And as I look at the business a couple things seem like they had changed and I’m trying to understand if this is a blip or if this is a shift.
First of all the cremation mix seems to be accelerating higher.
The mix shift seems to be happening quicker.
And then secondly obviously you’ve shifted into a higher gear with your cemetery production.
Do you think those two things are kind of tied into demographics and we were [sitting] 65 and that’s something they think about taking care of it.
Is there something behind that that you would think kind of – are those related and do you think there is something kind of bigger behind the two trends that will continue? I’ll try to address and again these are Tom’s feelings so take them for what they are worth.
But when you think about cremation it’s hard to not imagine that the economic – we’ve always said if you look back historically people don’t choose cremation because of the hard economic times.
I kind of have to believe there is a little bit of that going on because of the creep we’ve seen in the mix.
And particularly as it relates to seniors because with the low interest rate environment it’s not necessarily the job environment it’s the fact that my CD pays me 0.2%.
There it’s really difficult I think for people to afford the same level of things that they used to.
So as you’re dealing with that I think that’s playing a little bit in the cremation mix would be my feeling.
We’re seeing it regionally more on the Atlantic Seaboard is probably more acute and other parts of the country just to give you some regional aspect.
Shifting back to cemetery say it yourself with an increased cremation mix when do you expect less people to be buying cemetery property? I tell you that a couple of things are happening.
One is we’ve got a great team and they’re generating good leads we’ve got great sales force and I think the training and investment is paying off.
But having said that when you think about the core customer the average cemetery customers are in their early 60s that’s when people tend to reach out and do transact in that category.
And if you look at Baby Boomers the oldest Baby Boomer now is in their mid-to-high 60s.
So I think we’re getting in the sweet spot and the fact that you’ve got more people ready to hear your conversation even though more of them are choosing cremation and I think that’s having a positive impact on our ability to sell as well.
Inc.</strong> Great and just my last one have the funeral volume trends in the fourth quarter have those kind of trends continued into the first quarter through the first half and also kind of down – mid-single digits or has it firmed up to more or what you saw for all of 2012 which should be kind of maybe down 2 to 3? I think we still – to answer them in reverse we still feel pretty comfortable that 2012 is going to be okay.
I think there is one important thing to point out last year so call it December of 2010 and January of 2011 we saw a pretty big impact as it relates to the numbers of death.
We track back to flu and track back to (inaudible) weather and so even in the first quarter if you recall we had up volume and that’s predominantly because in January and early February.
So reserve it this year and we’re seeing really almost negligible effect of any kind of flu season.
So in December alone I give an example really down about 12%.
So October and November weren’t bad at all and December fell off the map.
I’d tell you that January again is the tough comparable we’re seeing the crazy number we saw in December but again you’re comparing against a very robust January 2011.
So I think the first quarter could be somewhat challenging but it’s our belief that everything normalizes in 2012 and we’d expect that kind of low-single digit decline.
Inc.</strong> Now when you’re a kid did you ever think you’d be rooting for bad weather and flu as an adult? No.
Inc.</strong> Exactly thanks a lot.
That concludes my questions.
Thank you.
The next question will come from the line of Clint Fendley Davenport.
Thank you.
Good morning Tom and Eric.
Eric I just wanted to make sure I heard you correctly your EPS guidance here assumes a baseline share count of about 225 million shares.
And I just was wondering I mean that seems a little high I guess to me in light of the 1.7 million shares that you’d already purchased in January and I guess just also your track record over the past two years any thoughts on that? Yeah first of all the two numbers I gave you you’re right.
Right now we’re about 222 million shares outstanding.
The 225 Clint is the weighted average diluted shares.
And so when you’re taking options and other factors that’s what gets you to right around right now 225 million shares which we’re modeling.
And you’re correct in saying certainly you’ve seen how we believe in share repurchases.
But that’s why I’m kind of give you that insight.
The model itself isn't necessarily selecting which free cash flow deployment has the highest return for us in 2012.
Because what we really would like to do is as we’ve been hoping is continue our acquisition program.
And our acquisition program the types of acquisitions that we’ve been able to do such as what we did in 2011 are very accretive to free cash flow per share and a very good internal rates of return.
So that would be our first priority to deploy our capital there.
Absent the timing of this acquisitions or the ability to do that in terms of then being available to us at the proper return then we will continue to take the balanced approach and deploy capital certainly at this free cash flow yield associated with buying back our shares itself.
Now realistically we’re big believers in the stock as you know as we’ve proven and at this free cash flow yield it’s pretty attractive.
So we didn’t go out and say let’s say half of the free cash flow goes to acquisitions or half goes to [performance].
We just chose not take that guess and have the crystal ball.
You can certainly model it how you see fit but that’s why we gave you insight and saying that the diluted amount on the model is 225 million shares.
Okay got it that makes sense.
And I’ve heard you Tom loud and clear a lot of great color on the revenue growth just the way you’re thinking about it for 2012 the low single-digit on the funeral.
I just wondered on the general agency line items and I know that’s a smaller part but I mean it’s gone up a little bit over the last couple of quarters.
I’m wondered if that was due to Neptune and how should we think about that revenue run rate going forward? A lot of the G&amp;A revenue Clint is associated with two things; one we’re growing our preneed backlog and we’re growing it predominantly through the insurance product.
Today we probably write 80% insurance versus 20 trust so your mix change is driving G&amp;A.
And secondarily we’re getting better at writing the appropriate style of insurance products as we’re going to get a higher commission on certain types of products.
And so we’re trying to drive our sales performance around those characteristic that’s going to generate the higher G&amp;A revenue for us.
So higher rate relative to quality of product combined with the increased throughput as we grow preneed sales.
Okay.
And then last question here I guess just kind of a big picture stepping back and it’s kind of follow-up to John’s question as well.
I mean we’ve heard you kind of you’re making a big portion 2012 on preneed are you feel you are sort of in that the sweet spot at least demographically especially on the cemetery side.
I mean just any color maybe specifically for what these families and these customers are coming to you buying? I mean are they increasingly interested in cremation niches? I mean is that an part of the cemetery at least that you’re having success in selling or does it represent your success more just you know some of the traditional plots and traditional areas of your cemeteries? Yeah I mean really all the above.
There is no doubt.
I think we're seeing a growth in cremation consumer buying into our commentaries year-over-year.
You know the sad part is we wish a lot of group of them would.
Because I think if you look at the statistics now a large percentage of people do that.
However year-over-year the growth is there I think we’ve got the product I think we do a good job of presenting that.
But historically people have not tended to buy in great numbers into our cemeteries and cremation product.
We’ve had a lot of local successes.
And so I think if you look at every category across the country we’re seeing a growth and that’s going to change by demographics by ethnic tradition by part of the country.
But I’d say in every category we’re very pleased about the growth the number of people we’re seeing.
And again I don’t want to belittle efforts of our folks.
We’ve worked really hard.
We hired more sales people.
We generated more leads.
We’ve got better lead management systems.
We’ve invested a lot in training.
And so I think that too has had a major impact on our ability to execute and grow again at 12.3% on a comparable basis.
I mean when you think about that and this economic and consumer environment and with the cremation exchange it surely is extraordinary.
And that – I can’t say enough good things about it and I’m pretty excited.
So I think that’s going to continue and I think Cremation is going to be a big part of the way we grow.
Having said it it’s a small piece today so high growth rates on a low base we’ll keep it coming.
Got it.
Thank you guys.
The next question will come from the line of A J Rice Susquehanna.
Hello everybody a couple of quick questions if I could ask.
First of all and I may have missed this.
I had technical difficulties on the phone but I wondered if you have the revenue per case trend for the Cremation business versus the traditional atneed? Is there a difference in the year-to-year trend on pricing between those two? Yeah A J I think generally this year in particular if you go back five years Cremation was growing at a higher rate within our base group.
This year for the first time I’ve seen in four year our actual burial average was up higher than cremation both of them grew.
But we’re seeing that average pop up in 2011 over 2010 a little more.
I don’t think that’s something that necessarily is going to continue.
I think it was probably the cumulative effect of the last four years and now we’ve done a good job in kind of raising the average spend on the cremation side.
So I expect that to look good.
Obviously with Neptune coming into the mix when you throw the Neptune business into our business that’s going to put downward pressure on the overall cremation spend.
I think we’ll present that for you in a different way because that consumer we believe is a different consumer.
So we’ll try to be a little transparent on what’s happening within those two categories because I do view them as different segments.
Okay.
And then when you look at the Cemetery business and I see obviously preneed coming back nicely there as you talked about.
As if you look at the segments of the market sort of the high-end Mausoleums that type of thing versus more traditional preneed cemetery sales.
Are you seeing or have you seen that high-end come back yet or is that still fairly sluggish? You know I think the high-end has come back rather well.
I don’t think we’re back to 2007 levels you know when you think about what the – maybe the way that it’s moved.
Having said that I think year-over-year we continue to see those opportunities grow.
I’d say the real bread and butter of our success though is about riding more contracts.
And we’re seeing more consumers at every level from a pricing segment perspective.
So that’s the true reason for our success.
Having said that I do think the high-end is back and there’s people out there willing to spend.
And I don’t know that we ever get back to 2007 a crazy year right for a lot of reasons.
But we’re pleased about every segment and again I’d say that the need to say the meat and potatoes of why we’re successful is we’re hitting every segment and growing the number of people there selecting properties within our cemeteries.
Okay.
And then just on the capital deployment obviously I appreciate the comments about the share repurchase.
Any update in thinking – obviously you declared the regular dividend this quarter but any update in thinking about the dividend? Again I think A.J.; we’ve got some ratios that we kind of manage within.
It’s our intent and belief that things go as we expect them to go as you can expect us to grow the dividend over time.
So that’s something we definitely will look at.
I think when we look at the levels our stocks trading at today we still think that’s a more favorable deployment of capital relative to increasing the dividend substantially.
But we’re committed to growing that year-over-year and so that’s something I’m sure we’ll take a look at as the year goes on in 2012.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
And the next question will come from the line of Robert Willoughby Bank of America.
Hey Tom just a quick question.
You’ve kind of touched on it a bit but I just – is there an internal view of how high the cremation rate could ultimately get I mean we’re not talking 100% obviously but where is the realistic level for it to kind of level out? I think when you look at other similar demographics and I think we’re somewhat unique.
But if you look at the UK if you look at Canada for that matter if you look at Australia what you tend to see is because a lot of these rates have kind of plateaued.
And if you believe that trend what you’ll see in the major cities approaching somewhere close to 70%.
So when you take into account the more rural markets probably a blended 60% as you look at those economies.
And they’ve been trading that way for some period of time.
I said the one difference that we’ve got is like somebody said if you think the U.S.
is bad we’re not stopping anybody from leaving the country but we stop coming in.
There is still a migration to the United States and a favorable migration when you look at necessity and religion.
So I think those factors could have a dampening effect on our ability to get to those types of levels.
But ultimately I think you got to believe you get there just a matter of how fast is that going to be accomplished but that’s probably our internal belief.
And as we’ve discussed Bob as you know we still view cremation as such a tremendous opportunity.
Right.
Because the gap in spend between cremation and burial in this country is unlike any other we’ve seen anywhere else.
You did not see $4 000 spend differences in these other economies I just mentioned too.
So I think there is a real opportunity to put relevant products and services in front of these cremation consumers and really drive the average spend in this category as time goes on.
It’s not going to be burial spend but if you can take 40% to 50% of your consumers and grow that revenue per case at a higher clip that’s going to have a positive impact on what we can do financially.
Okay.
And maybe with that in mind is there any change as your anniversary the Neptune investments would that ultimately find its way into some kind of funeral comp from a volume perspective or just continue to be in the G&amp;A side of things from a revenue standpoint? No you’re going to have because Neptune really has two components of the revenue.
They’ve got atneed revenue which is really the service the removal upon death and the cremation which is a smaller piece.
And a lot of what they’re driving today is on the preneed side and that’s selling and delivery of the product and services ahead of time.
And so I think the growth that you’re seeing today on the profit side is really going to be driven by that sales activity.
Having said that from a volume perspective they’ve got a huge backlog and we’d expect the numbers of deaths that come out of Neptune to grow pretty rapidly over the next few years.
Because again the way that they've grown their backlog is very quickly and a lot of it just hasn’t began to rollout yet.
But that will show up.
Yeah that will show up in our numbers and again we’ll talk more about that as that becomes more relevant.
Okay.
But it’s like a funeral funeral atneed revenue would reflect increasingly some dilution from Neptune flowing through or would that be continued to be separated? I think maybe more just from a disclosure standpoint.
I think from a disclosure standpoint again I can’t speak to 10-K because I’m not versed in it.
But I think as we communicate with you guys we’re going to talk more about that because at the end of the day those funerals if you will once we actually perform them are going to be $600 million to $700 million revenue events and we’re not going to make a bunch of margin on it most of the margins made on the selling side.
Having said that that’ll be profitable and we’ll make money.
But I think it’s important to probably segregate this for you and let you know what’s happing in that arena as it relates to our traditional core business.
Perfect perfect.
And just the last question I guess to A.J's point on the dividend if you meet my share repurchase targets which you appear well en route to the dividend payout itself as it currently stands – stays about flat year-over-year.
I guess to your point it is reasonable to expect that dividend payout continue to move higher year-over-year? Yeah I think we do Bob.
Again it depends on what happens I'd say in 2012 but it’s something we’ll address later on the year at the board level.
And again we think it’s important to pay a reasonable dividend particularly in today’s environment so we’ll do that.
Again from an – a perspective of enhancing the value of the company that’s probably not something that is first on our list but we also recognize in today’s lower interest rate environment yields are important.
And we think it’s a good idea to return some cash to shareholders.
So yeah we’ll consider that later in the year.
Perfect thank you.
Okay thanks Bob.
The next question will come from the line of Duncan Brown Wells Fargo Securities.
Hey good morning.
Hi Duncan.
On the funeral side you talked about managing doing a good job of managing the operating cost in a difficult volume environment anything that you can highlight in particular? As it relates to the expense side? That’s right.
Yeah I think you know the number one category that we can manage about I forget the percentage I think it’s 28% of our cost are people cost.
And what we’ve done over time Duncan is try to convert more and more of our high fixed cost nature of the way we operate of our business into a variable cost environment.
And it is an ongoing effort and continuous process improvement for us because we’ve given tools to our field management to better utilize these resources.
So I’d just tell you over time we’ve gotten better and better of it and we're better at anticipating when we know the funeral volumes are not there we’re utilizing our staffing more effectively.
We utilize a lot of part time folks that don’t have to come to work if there is not enough work to be done and when you go further and think about the fleet and you think about the central preparations and some of the other things that go on within our business we can manage those cost down.
In addition I’d say we’ve done a really good job on the supply chain side in driving down costs bidding out a wider variety of things that go into our businesses and that have an effect.
So I just think we’ve gotten better of doing it and you're seeing the success in the fourth quarter.
Okay that’s helpful thanks.
On the Neptune I was wondering if you could quantify the revenue impact in the quarter? I think you said last quarter was around $14 million? Yeah I think it’s pretty consistent maybe slightly higher it was what Neptune generated.
So in that general range.
Yes.
And then just last one for me.
Is there a revolver still drawn? The revolver has $65 million drawn on it right now.
And it is the $500 million facility due in March of 2016.
Got it thank you.
Yep.
This concludes the question-and-answer portion for today’s conference.
I would now like to turn the call back to SCI management team for closing remarks.
Well thank you everybody for participating today.
We look forward to be talking to you again in late April with our first quarter results.
Have a great day.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you once again for participating.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2012 Service Corporation International Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Allison [ph] and I’ll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
(Operator Instruction) As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to SCI Management.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning.
This is Debbie Young Director of Investor Relations for SCI.
Welcome to our call today as we discuss our first quarter results.
Before we begin let me just walk you through our Safe Harbor language.
In our comments today we will make statements that are not historical facts and are forward-looking.
These statements are based on assumptions that we believe are reasonable.
However there are many important factors that could cause our actual results in the future to differ materially from these forward-looking statements.
For more information related to these statements and other risk factors please see our filings with the SEC that are available on our website.
Also on the call today we will use the terms normalized EPS and free cash flow.
Both of these are non-GAAP financial terms.
For reconciliation of normalized EPS to EPS calculated in accordance with GAAP please see our press release and 8-K that were issued yesterday.
For calculations of free cash flow and free cash flow per share we would refer you to a presentation that is posted on our website under Webcasts &amp; Presentations that will give you the supporting calculations and reconciliations to GAAP cash flow.
With that we’ll start with comments from Tom Ryan SCI’s President and CEO.
Thank you Debbie and welcome everyone to the call today.
What I’m going to do is start off with an overview of the quarter and then kind of dive down into funeral operations and cemetery operations and then hand it over to Eric.
To start off I’m very excited to report to you that earnings per share and cash flow performance had exceeded our own internal expectation.
This was accomplished despite a very challenging comparable funeral volume environment and I would like to thank all of my fellow associates for their outstanding effort and performance.
Normalized earnings per share increased $0.03 to $0.20 versus $0.17 in the prior year quarter.
While operating improvements generated about a $0.01 worth of growth the impact of fewer shares outstanding and the foreign currency gain offset by a higher tax rate contributed on a net basis the remaining $0.02 of improvement resulting overall in the $0.03 or an impressive 17.6% improvement in earnings per share.
This all despite a 4.6% reduction in comparable funeral volume.
Free cash flow produced during the quarter was $74 million.
This was down from the prior year by some $11 million as it was impacted by higher cash tax payments and higher annual incentive payments and long-term incentive compensation payments which were tied to total shareholder returns.
If you exclude these $17 million of payment we had accounted for in our forecasting we grew operating cash flow some $6 million which was better than we had anticipated in our own forecast.
With our free cash flow on hand we continue to be active with our share purchase program during the first quarter buying back approximately 6.8 million shares for $75 million.
Consolidated funeral revenues grew 3.9% which can predominantly be attributable to the contribution from [inaudible] but SCI comparable revenues were down slightly.
Still we were able to grow funeral profit almost $1 billion even with the challenging volume environment and increased compensation selling expense associated with our growing preneed funeral production.
Our funeral gross margin percentage declined slightly as high margin comparable revenues replaced by lower margin Neptune and G&amp;A revenue.
Consolidated cemetery revenue grew 4% over the prior year quarter.
This growth was driven primarily through strong comparable preneed cemetery sales growth of 14.1% over the prior year quarter while atneed revenues were slightly lower by some 1% quarter-over-quarter.
Our preneed sales production growth was substantially muted and converted to GAAP revenues by two items.
First by an $8.5 million increase in property sales that were undeveloped as compared to the prior year and therefore deferred into our backlog.
Second a $1.5 million deferral of cemetery merchandise sale that were unable to be installed due to certain vendor deliveries.
By the way the issue is being fixed as we speak.
The good news is that these revenues are simply deferred and predominantly a benefit for the last three quarters of 2012.
The 4% revenue growth was substantially offset by unusual increases in selling compensation and maintenance cost in our cemetery segment.
We believe that these cost trends should normalize in the coming quarters resulting in higher gross margin percentages.
Now shifting to an overview of the comparable funeral operations and keeping in mind that this now includes the Keystone property.
For the quarter comparable funeral revenues declined $2 million or 0.5% or was better than we had expected mainly due to higher G&amp;A revenues on the backs of better than anticipated funeral preneed production.
Funeral volumes continue to be solid down 4.6% similar to the levels we saw in the fourth quarter of last year.
This was for the most part anticipated in our forecast.
Partially offsetting this softness was a strong increase in the comparable average sales of 3.2% excluding the impact of trust fund income and currency.
We’re beginning to see the benefits of the initiatives we have mentioned before and are enhancing the effect of our annual inflationary pricing.
First the refreshed dignity packaging which is centered around customer choice and flexibilities along with the associated training within place in over 500 locations during the first quarter of this year and is scheduled to be rolled out entirely during the second quarter and the third quarter of 2012.
The other item that is generating this growth is our receptions and events sale which include catering.
This generated about $2.2 million in the first quarter and added 60 basis points or said another way $31 to our entire funeral average.
This has the potential to continue to grow as half our locations still have not sold a single catering package and this too will improve as the year goes on.
And finally coming from our digital strategy our e-commerce sales [ph].
These again in the first quarter generated some $420 000 of additional revenue which will help grow that average as that matures.
Keep in mind that all this is done this increase was accomplished to take into account that our cremation mix grew 90 basis points to 45% in the first quarter.
Although revenues declined we were able to hold comparable funeral profits flat.
We managed our operating costs well and the soft funeral environment and an increase in G&amp;A revenue of $3.8 million on increased preneed insurance funeral production helped to offset associated selling related costs.
Now shifting to our cemetery operation.
Comparable cemetery revenue increased about $8.6 million or 5% quarter-over-quarter.
This is mainly attributable to the strong preneed production numbers I mentioned earlier as well as slightly higher trust fund income.
Although our production numbers exceeded expectation our recognition rates were a bit lower so some of the revenue is going to come in future periods while we bore the selling costs in the current period.
Turning to profits our comparable cemetery profits grew $0.5 million or 2% for the quarter not a margin we would expect with the revenue growth of $8.6 million that we reported.
So let us break it down.
The $7.7 million in operating revenue growth this quarter we would expect about a 60% gross margin and with 900 000 of increased trust related income growth we expect about a 100% margin on that revenue.
Therefore in total an $8.6 million revenue increase should have delivered about $5.5 million dollars in cemetery profit growth.
So let us explain why $5.5 million is only $0.5 million this quarter.
And first of all as I mentioned previously we deferred revenues on an incremental $10 million in cemetery production.
Remember I pointed to $8.5 million of property sales that were hung up and deferred and $1.5 million of merchandise sales.
We had to incur an approximate 20% sales cost in margin now and that is about $2 million that impacted margins this quarter when the revenues will come later this year.
In addition we are bearing a higher cost percentage of sale this quarter as a large portion of sales were property our most valuable component and sold by our community service teams which is our outside sales -- which command a higher cost than our sales structure.
This combined with the transition to a new more effective sales compensation plan with related roll-out costs in the first quarter resulted in an approximate $2 million increase in selling compensation.
Most of this cost we do not anticipate to recur.
Finally cemetery maintenance expense increased by $1.6 million in the quarter.
This is due in part to the fact that we have experienced in most parts of the country a rather mild winter which resulted in a seasonally early increase of cemetery maintenance activity.
This too is one we would not expect to be an issue in the coming quarters.
Therefore as we assume that the $5 million in unusual variances should not reoccur we would expect a more normalized result of cemetery margins going forward throughout 2012 and that the full-year margins would fall somewhere between 19% and 21% range.
As we look ahead we are excited about 2012 as we expect solid growth in both earnings and cash flow per share.
We remain confident in our ability to deliver results that are pushing the upper range of guidance communicated to you in February.
We believe the same trend of business fundamentals will continue generating steady improvements in cash flow and maintaining significant liquidity continuing to grow our funeral and cemetery preneed business and building our backlog.
We will continue to utilize our free cash flow to capitalize on value enhancing opportunities all this as we move towards the inevitable favorable demographic impact on this industry and especially for your company.
This concludes my prepared remarks and I will turn it over to Eric.
Good morning.
This morning I’m going to walk you through the details of our cash flow and our trust performance for the quarter and I’m also going to briefly discuss how we deployed this free cash flow to enhance shareholder value during the quarter.
So starting with cash operating cash flow in the first quarter as you have seen was about $96 million.
To give you some insight it was a little over 10% higher than our expectations and going back to Tom’s remarks it is primarily driven by better-than-expected cemetery production.
Compared to the prior year they operating cash flow declined about $12 million again as expected.
The first thing I would say that there was about $10 million more of higher incentive comp payment and that is the same thing we mentioned before payouts from our short-term plans as well as payout on our long-term total shareholder return plan as well.
We also had higher cash tax variance between cash taxes quarter-over-quarter of about $7.5 million.
Now we really only paid about $2 million of cash taxes this quarter and the prior year quarter but to remind you as I disclosed last year we had a $8 million tax refund in the prior year quarter related to tax accounting method changes and that is really what is creating that variance the tax refund that we received last year that we had no such thing this year.
While we’re on tax payments on a forward-looking basis I want to give you a quick update on the IRS audits and I mentioned this last quarter.
A portion of our 2003 to 2005 audit years was settled in the first quarter and we are nearing completion on the remaining issues under review for the 2003 to 2005 audit years.
At this point I would anticipate that we would make the payment sometime in the second quarter for approximately $5 million to $6 million and then we will make an additional payment in the third or fourth quarter this year of approximately $20 million to $25 million related to the complete resolution of these audit years with the IRS.
Upon settlement of this audit we also expect that it will produce a benefit or a credit for our non-recurring earnings in our tax expense line of approximately $25 million tax benefit or credit through the income statement of which you saw about a $3 million credit this quarter recognized in the tax line in the first quarter of 2012.
And keep in mind that these payments that I just mentioned are not in our cash flow guidance numbers for 2012 and we would expect to treat them as non-recurring items or one-time events which we believe that they are.
And going back to the cash flow maintenance Capex and cemetery development Capex which again are two components that we consider are recurring Capex.
So during the quarter it was about $1.7 million lower than the prior year quarter and was $21.7 million for this quarter which was in line with our expectations.
When you deduct this capital spending from cash flow from ops we calculate our free cash flow for the first quarter to be about $74 million and again although this is down some from last year due to the anticipated cash tax variance and the incentive compensation payment we just mentioned it is ahead of where we thought it would be at this time by about 15% or so.
So with that we remain comfortable with the full year 2012 operating cash flow guidance we discussed in February which again was $375 million to $425 million on an annual basis.
Our recurring Capex guidance remains unchanged and again now it was $95 million to $105 million and doing the math that would result in anticipated free cash flow in 2012 of the range of $270 million to $330 million which again was our guidance that remains unchanged today.
On a per-share basis this guidance equates to $1.22 to $1.49 for 2012 using our fully diluted weighted average share account of about 221 shares that we are currently modeling now for 2012.
Also the 2012 guidance for free cash flow per share represents an 11% to 14% free cash flow yield on our current share price of around $11 very exciting.
Additionally on a pro forma basis let us assume we are a full cash tax payer which we believe really is not until the 2014 to 2015 timeframe.
So with that our free cash flow per share would still yield low double-digit percentages 10% to 11% range as well.
Shifting to trust funds now our combined trust fund assets increased by 6.6% during the quarter.
The total trust fund income that we recognized in our income statement for the quarter grew about $1.6 million to $26.4 million.
Although our trust fund performance exceeded our expectations in the first quarter our guidance for trust fund returns for the full year of 2012 remains unchanged and recall that we are assuming that our consolidated trust fund assets will realize an annualized positive return in the low single digit percentage range.
Now let us shift to the free cash flow deployment in the quarter.
We had no meaningful acquisitions or debt repurchases in the first quarter but we continue to buyback our shares.
During the quarter we repurchased about 6.8 million shares for a total investment of about $75 million.
That would average right around $11 per share.
Subsequent to the end of the quarter we bought another 760 000 shares for deployment of about $8.3 million that is $10.95 per share on average.
To update you as of today we currently have about $138 million of share repurchase authorization and our current shares outstanding today as we speak are right around 216 million shares outstanding.
So to conclude we continue we believe to be financially strong with a very strong balance sheet.
We have substantial liquidity and a great debt maturity profile that positions us well to explore value enhancement opportunities.
As again to remind you we have no meaningful debt maturities until October 2014.
Excitingly we anticipate a 15% growth approximately in free cash flow per share over 2011 at the midpoint of our 2012 guidance.
So we remain committed to deploy this free cash flow prudently and to pursue value-added investments that will grow our earnings and our cash flow as well as returning value to our shareholders.
So that concludes our prepared remarks for the quarter and now at this time operator we will go ahead and open it up to questions.
(Operator instructions) Your first question comes from Robert Willoughby Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Hi Tom or Eric just the exciting Neptune investment here.
Can you give us anecdotally growth metrics what it contributed to profitability what synergies might be left to go after if any just absence of much other excitement from a growth perspective that seems to be our focus?  Yes Bob.
This is Tom and we here are excited about Neptune.
And like we said before this is we think a great growth opportunity albeit a small piece of the entire organization.
I would define Neptune is on track for what we anticipated.
Some of the integration costs are beginning to flow through but probably not as quickly as initially we have liked to.
It is difficult to -- I think if you look at the reported numbers Bob for the first quarter we probably had profits in the $600 000 $700 000 range.
And that is gross profits and not EBITDA and that doesn’t really tell the whole story.
If you remember Neptune there is a couple of pieces here.
One is the fact that they are generating business so to speak on their top business.
But remember that we are performing a lot of the outsourcing on their behalf.
So the SCI locations are doing [inaudible] and have a margin in that business that doesn’t get captured in the Neptune line-item.
And I don’t have that exact number.
But that benefit has already flown through but wouldn’t show up necessarily in the Neptune number.
We think Neptune margins can expand pretty well for two reasons.
One is that we will continue in utilizing the integration of purchasing power to deliver margins to the expense line-item.
Secondarily we continue to grow Neptune by opening new locations in different markets.
And I believe last year we opened in three markets and we are scheduled to another 3 to 5 markets this year.
So we think it is going to grow the top line and expand the cash margins of the business as we fully integrate from an operational perspective.
And what is the kind of same-store growth rate for Neptune?  I think on a revenue top line the same-store growth rate is probably in the low single digits mid-single digit.
And as we open more officers again we expect to grow that even more.
Okay and then just a question on the trust returns obviously quite an impressive performance there in the latest period but it is so strong it makes me wonder if what shifts in the portfolio happened do we envision a bit more risk in down markets that perhaps you are in some riskier kinds of assets at this point?  Hi Bob it is Eric.
No not really.
I mean it just performed.
We have the same asset allocation that we had before.
As I said before we probably have 35 to 40 professional institutional money managers that are managing the money.
We don’t manage any money at SCI.
It is spread -- you know there is a good amount of equities as well because the asset allocation is meant to match the life of the underlying contract which is on average about 10 years.
But we just had good performance from our managers.
I mean most of the cases they did exceed their active benchmarks as well.
But nothing unusual in terms of the risk profile or changing out managers or anything along those lines Bob.
Bob I think if you step back a minute and say the S&amp;P returned 12% and you know bonds were relatively tepid you know and you take the average return is 6.6%.
So it is about what we would expect with a robust first quarter stock market.
You know April is a little more choppy but we will see what the year brings.
That is great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Ransom of Raymond James.
Please proceed.
Inc.</strong>  Hi.
Just a couple of things your mix of preneed has that changed materially between trusting and insurance?  Yes it has John.
If you think about there is two things happening.
From what is going into the pot today call it 80% of it coming is insurance funded.
This is just on the funeral side right and 20% is trust.
If you think about what is coming out of the preneed going atneed spots it has historically been right around 50 50 starting to shift more towards insurance.
But as these things mature we would expect more and more of a portfolio to be funded by an insurance contract as they go atneed.
What that will do is that is going to put a little pressure on your trust income.
Remember trust income is the cumulative effect of trust returns over the life of the contract.
Because less contracts mature on trust portfolio we expect that to happen.
Not to be overly concerned because when you think about the insurance portfolio it is more recent business.
It has been written at a higher average and so I would expect the average revenue per case to be just fine but less funeral income to be allocated you know to the atneed revenues.
John are you there?  My apologies.
John’s line has disconnected.
Okay.
We can go to the next question then.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Clint Fendley of Davenport.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning Tom Eric Debbie.
First question I wonder the average revenue per funeral was down slightly for the quarter I wondered how we should think about this for the remainder of the year as we consider the refreshed dignity packaging and also the reception and event sales that you mentioned Tom?  First of all Clint I think the consolidated average was down as a comparable average.
And the reason why I would point you to that is the Neptune activity in the lower case volumes.
So if we shift back to the average as it relates to the comparable business we actually had good growth about 3.2% quarter-over-quarter and I’m not looking at sequential.
But as I think about the year going on I think that that type of clip can be sustained and I will tell you why.
We have -- there is a couple of things in place that continue to benefit the average as we go forward.
The first one I mentioned was the events in catering category.
And there what we are doing is actually selling an additional product to families and it is relatively new.
And today we are generating that from probably on average 30% to 40% of our locations.
We got 50% that still haven’t sold it.
And again because it is [inaudible] as we roll this out and train it it is going to get more robust and contribute more.
But I think the biggest impact on the quarter is going to have to do with the refreshed dignity packages.
To remind everybody what we did here is add to cemeteries the flexibility.
What we are able to do now is offer a variety of products that they can choose from to take as part of the selection process.
In addition we have got substitution as it relates to casket types of products where they can select a variety of caskets whereas before they were somewhat limited in that choice.
And in doing so in the first 500 markets we rolled it out into I should say 500 locations was our main street locations we saw tremendous success.
We saw a pickup in dignity take-up rate go from say 30% to 33% which had a pretty big impact on the average revenue per case.
So now we are about to roll that into our metro markets and our major markets.
And this will be an additional 1200 locations.
That has already begun as of the first week of April and we should be completed sometime in the end of the third quarter.
As those roll into a larger portion of the markets larger case volume we would expect some momentum as it relates to the average revenue per case.
Our anticipation is the take-up rate will go up as well with the added flexibility with the additional training.
And so we feel pretty confident that that trend should continue Clint.
On the event side when do you expect the remainder of your locations to have the capability to offer the event sales?  They have the capability now and if any of them are listening I am sure they are thinking about selling some more on the call.
But it isn’t just the ones that aren’t selling it.
What I’m really trying to say is it is new and like everything we have developed training and you have got the first people that are out there hitting the beach and they love it.
And it is good and the client families love it.
And that is why I know that this thing is going to work and why it is going to expand throughout our network it is the feedback we are getting from the families that we serve is over the top.
They really enjoy this type of event.
We have the facilities in a lot of places to put it on for them or we can outsource the facility somewhere else to provide the catering.
But this is something that helps provide exposure.
It is a good way to surround yourselves with the families and friends at the end or at the beginning of what is one of the toughest weeks of your life.
So we think this is going to be a big seller more so than what we have been seeing today.
And you will see more locations and you will see locations that are selling a few today.
They are going to sell more and more on a monthly basis as they get comfortable with the caterer and their performance and things like that people who apprehensive at first to try.
Yes.
I think this is the first time I can remember you guys singling out Neptune for its impact on margins.
And I know you guys have talked about the possibility for expansion but could you remind us I mean have you expanded Neptune to any additional locations at this point?  Yes we are actually in six more locations than we were when we bought Neptune.
And what Neptune is going to do and it is easy to do the math Neptune is going to grow the margins.
So we’re going to need more gross dollars.
Well what happens because it is lower margin business as you look at gross margin percentage on a consolidated basis it is going to pull that down slightly.
And that is okay.
That was part of our plan right.
We are after dollars not margins.
And that is why we are excited about Neptune.
Again I just I warn people this is not -- this is a great business.
We love it.
It is going to expand.
It is going to grow.
It has got a great natural growth to it.
But at this point in time it is not a significant portion of our profit.
And so it is very important we expect it can grow but I think quarter-to-quarter we got to achieve what we are doing with the digging memorial network today and we are seeing some real good fruits of our labor as it relates to both refreshed packages and also with the catering.
And even with e-commerce flowers you know a lot of these things are beginning to take root and to grow and I think will enhance the margins of the business on the Dig Memorial Network.
Okay got it.
And last question here Eric if I heard you correctly on the free cash flow the midpoint of your guidance here of $1.36 is unchanged.
That would exclude about I guess $30 million in non-recurring tax payments.
I wonder do the tax credits affect your EPS guidance at all or would these be reflected as a reconciling item going forward?  Good question Clint.
The answer is no it would be a non-recurring one-time cash tax payment that would not be included in the guidance.
And on the EPS side when it is finally done and it is about a $25 million credit that would obviously not be part of the EPS guidance either.
It would be considered a one-time reconciling item as well.
Remember these go all the way back to 2003 and 2005.
It really has nothing to do with the ongoing 2012 operations.
Yes okay got it.
Thank you guys.
Nice quarter.
And your next question comes from the line of John Ransom of Raymond James.
Please go ahead John.
Hi I don’t know what happened.
But just to go back on the insurance versus trust so my point was back to the 20:80 is likely to remain constant in the future in that state [ph]?  I think so at least in the near term for sure.
That is probably the right area for us John.
And they give you a CPI return in exchange for more cash upfront that is what you like about that?  Well it is not a CPI.
It is typically a fixed number.
This is associated with the G&amp;A revenue.
Again they are interchangeable and I would say today we’re taking the lower growth product with more cash upfront which is easily what we want to do.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks.
Thanks John.
And your next question comes from the line of Chris Rigg of Susquehanna.
Please go ahead Chris.
Good morning guys.
Just on the preneed cemetery side has there been any sort of change in the mix of properties that you are selling.
Has there been any sort of movement back towards the high end sort of properties at this point is it still sort of the average is the average?  I would say two things.
We are seeing increased utilization on the cremation site.
You know the niche in cremation the more utilization product grows at a higher clip and part of that is just the fact that more people are choosing cremation.
But as far as the components of cemetery I would say Chris that it is really about production it is about numbers.
We’re having some high-end activity not at the levels of 2006 and 2007.
So I think that is getting better.
But with generating this it is not large sales.
With generating this year-over-year is the fact that we are writing that many more contracts and that is exciting to me because that is showing that these aren’t one-off these are more and more people making arrangements.
And getting in front of our sales folks and that is a very positive thing for us.
Okay great.
And then one last bigger picture question on the acquisition environment where do you think sort of the multiples are right now for the group and how has that changed sort of over the last 12 months?  I think you know what we are seeing is that they are probably inching up a bit but nothing too dramatic.
And I think again the multiples probably are different depending on the type of market.
And as you go into rural markets you are going to get one multiple as you go into a competitive major market with a big business particularly combos you are going to see higher.
Let us say on average you know today from a historical basis people are wanting to get somewhere in the 7 to 8 range on a historical.
And again for us pro forma pretty quickly we can make that work really good for us as long as it is in that arena.
Would you expect it to go up? Yes.
I mean I think we are seeing more people active but I also think there is more businesses out there or sales.
So we’re excited.
We think the pipeline is good.
We think the pricings so far are remaining reasonable and we expect to see some activity in 2012.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
And your next question comes from Duncan Brown of Wells Fargo Securities.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning everybody.
I wondered if you could talk about volumes on the Q4 call you kind of highlighted that December was the worst month and kind of indicated that January would be a tough month as well.
I wondered if that played out just talk a little bit about monthly volumes was January bad you saw a little bit of pickup in February March?  Yes I think what we saw from a -- again this is comparable January and February were the worst two months of the quarter.
March came back was much better.
It is always hard to tell though because you are comparing against last year’s quarter.
So if I reverse it on you and say what happened in the first quarter of 2011 we had growth in January growth in February and March was bad.
So a lot of this plays of each other.
But generally we saw it improving as we got to the end of the quarter of March.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And I was wondering if you could maybe go back and give some color around the unusual increases in selling comp on the cemetery side.
I think I followed all that but wasn’t quite sure why you expected to not be recurring going forward?  Okay.
Two things.
One is $2 million related to what I would call deferred sales.
So we sold $8.5 million of the property that has not been constructed.
And we sold $1.5 million more of merchandise that could not be delivered or put in place.
Those $10 million of revenue that is from a -- the way you look at your business you would say I sold $10 million of revenue.
Well accounting rules say no.
You can’t recognize it yet and we know we’re going to get to recognize it in the coming months.
Unfortunately the accounting rules also say when you sell it you expense the selling cost.
So we had $2 million of selling cost in our expense line where the revenue hasn’t come through yet.
So think about the $2 million of that it is just sitting there that the revenue is not there with.
So I don’t expect that to re-occur as quarters go on.
The second piece really relates to the fact that we switched our sales compensation program.
We changed the way that we do it and we believe it is going to be a more effective cost efficient way of selling.
And I guess the simple way I would say this is we’re going from a salaried plan to one that is more like a draw plan.
Again it would allow people therefore to not be as productive let us say and to maintain in those positions.
By a draw plan you are drawing its future commissions and send people to continue to sell.
So in the switch over from one plan to another we incurred some costs and that occurred in the first quarter.
We know for fact those costs aren’t going to reoccur.
It is our belief actually that the cost should be again more cost efficient as you compare back in its future quarters on a going forward basis.
So there is $4 million that is identified in my opinion we shouldn’t see again as the year goes on or in future years.
Okay.
That is helpful.
So the part two the increased cost was actually due to switching it not due to an expectation of higher sales comp going forward is that correct?  That is correct.
There is some other little bit of cost that relates to where we sold it and what type it is.
I mean understand that we compensate more for properties than we do for merchandise and services because we value the property more.
There is a legacy issue if you will an adjacent issue.
I buy property then you know my brother may want to buy next to me.
So property is very very important as it relates to the scarcity of it.
So we incent more to sell property.
So if you look at the mix of what we sold we sold an inordinate amount of property as it relates to merchandise and services in the quarter.
That is where the growth came from.
So you would expect a little bit more and then I also try to identify the fact that we have two categorized types of sales organizations.
One we call community service which for people outside the industry would be outside sales.
So they are generating leads away from our properties.
And then you have what we call family services that is more akin to inside sales.
And they are getting most of their leads from our properties.
So we pay more on average for a community service sale that is generated away from our property.
So those two things that the growth came from community service and then it was property related will result in a slightly higher percentage cost as you grow the cemetery business.
Right.
I appreciate all that explanation so I guess one of the other takeaways in this or the other question is so that the property versus merchandize in your opinion was -- that mix was unusual in this quarter and not something to continue going forward.
I would expect that we can sell property at a higher clip than merchandise but probably not as action [ph] as you saw in this quarter.
I mean it is pretty severe as it relates to historical performance because we did overall grow I think 14% and almost all of that was driven by properties.
Got you.
That is helpful and one last one from me is it still 65 million out on the revolver?  Yes.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call back over to SCI management.
We like to thank everybody for participating on the call today.
We look forward to seeing you again sometime in late July to report our second-quarter earnings.
Have a great day.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Hello and welcome to the Q2 2012 Service Corporation International Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Maisha and I’ll be your operator for today’s call.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to the SCI senior management.
You may begin.
Hi and good morning.
This is Debbie Young Director of Investor Relations for SCI.
Thanks for joining us today as we talk about our second quarter results.
Our comments today will make statements that are not historical fact and are forward-looking.
These statements are based on assumptions that we believe are reasonable however there are many important factors that could cause our actual results in the future to differ materially from these forward-looking statements.
For more information related to these statements and other risk factors please see our filings with the SEC that are available on our website.
Also today on the call we will use the terms “normalized EPS ” “adjusted operating cash flow and “[inaudible] cash flow ” all of which are non-GAAP financial terms.
For reconciliation of these terms to the appropriate measures calculated in accordance with GAAP please see our press release [inaudible] yesterday.
We have also posted a presentation on our website containing each of these non-GAAP reconciliations and you can find that presentation on our website under the subheading “webcasts and presentations.” With that we’ll begin with remarks from Tom Ryan SCI’s president and CEO.
Thanks Debbie and welcome everybody to the call.
I’m very excited to report to you a solid quarter with significant increases in both funeral and cemetery profits and an impressive 20% growth in normalized earnings per share that exceeded both external as well as our own internal expectations.
Our team really performed particularly our sales force who delivered double-digit growth in our pre-need cemetery sales production for the sixth time in the last seven quarters.
Based on our performance through the first six months we’re increasing our full-year 2012 outlook for normalized earnings per share and free cash flow which I will talk about more later in my remarks.
Now for an overview for the quarter.
Our normalized earnings per share increased $.03 to $.18 versus $.15 in the prior year quarter.
Most of this increase came from operating earnings growth from pre-need cemetery sales production growth combined with operating efficiency as the impact of fewer shares helped offset the higher G&amp;A expenses as well as a $2 million foreign currency loss.
Free cash flow produced during the quarter was $42 million which was up slightly from last year.
We continued to be active buyers of our stock during the second quarter and we also completed two acquisitions which added six funeral homes to our network in the San Diego market as well as the province of British Columbia.
Consolidated revenues grew $20.6 million.
Increased revenues from our acquisition of Neptune solid growth in the average revenue per funeral and strong cemetery performance were partially offset by lower funeral pace volumes.
Consolidated profits grew $13.2 million and the higher revenues and gross margin improved 160 basis points to 21.5%.
We did an excellent job at managing costs in both segments and I want to thank our teams in the field for their leadership particularly in light of the challenging funeral volume environment.
Now for an overview of comparable funeral operations.
For the quarter comparable funeral revenues declined about $2 million or around .5%.
Funeral volumes continued to be soft; they were down 2.9% for the quarter.
On a year-to-date basis same store volumes are down 3.7% which is generally in line with our forecast.
We have modeled our comps to get easier in the back half of the year resulting in volume for the year down in the low single-digit percentage range probably somewhere between 2 and 3%.
Partially offsetting this softness was a solid increase in comparable average sales 3.1% excluding the impact of trust fund income and currency.
This was consistent with the growth we experienced in the first quarter.
Keep in mind this increase also takes into account that our cremation mix grew by 80 basis points to 45%.
We are continuing to see the positive impact from initiatives we have mentioned before that are enhancing the effect of our inflationary pricing.
First and foremost the Refresh Dignity packaging is centered around the consumer choice better consumer choice and flexibility and the associated training that goes along with it is now in place in approximately 900 locations and is scheduled to be rolled out to all locations by the end of September.
In addition our recessions and event sales otherwise referred to as catering added a little more than $3 million in the second quarter or about $50 to total comparable funeral average.
Not only is that affecting our at-need average but we’re seeing success in this initiative on the pre-need front as well.
During the second quarter we sold $1.3 million of recessions and event sales that will go into the backlog and benefit future quarters.
Finally within our digital strategy we initiated the e-commerce floral sales and again those continue to grow and generated about $475 000 of profit in the second quarter.
We expect all these initiatives to continue to gain traction the second half of the year.
Despite the decline in revenues we were able to generate an impressive growth in our profits.
Profits grew $5.5 million or 7.4% and our gross margin percentage improved 160 basis points as we were able to enhance the efficiency of our labor [inaudible] integration process as well as our energy costs.
Pre-need funeral sales were down 3% for the quarter coming off of a very strong first quarter number and also comparing against a very strong quarter last year.
Pre-need funeral sales production year-to-date is up 6.2%.
Because the back half of 2011 was very strong we’re expecting more modest increases in the back half of 2012.
This should result in a full-year performance in line with our original guidance of low to mid-single digit increase.
<br> Now switching over to cemetery operations.
Comparable cemetery revenue increased $12 million or 6.4% quarter-over-quarter.
Growth is mainly attributable to strong pre-need production efforts which grew by 1.5% over the prior year quarter.
Our sales team has continued to deliver excellent results.
Year-to-date pre-need cemetery production is up more than 14% which is higher than we would have anticipated.
For the back half of the year expect cemetery pre-need sales to grow in the mid-single digit percentage range which will result in a mid-high single digit percentage increase for the year as we have previously guided.
Comparable cemetery profits grew $7.3 million or 18.5% for the quarter.
This profit growth of $7.3 million approximates a 60% gross margin which is what we would expect on the growth and operating revenue.
Recall that in the first quarter we experienced a number of unusual variances that reduced cemetery gross margin percentage.
We told you that we would expect a more normalized margin going forward throughout 2012 and we are truly seeing that here in the second quarter.
We believe that the full-year margins will land within the 20 to 21% range in cemetery.
While it was a very strong quarter for cemetery gross profit it was an even better on operationally as we grew production by $18.5 million and reported sales of just 12 million.
This backlog build will benefit profits in future quarters.
In conclusion we are pleased with our performance in the quarter and the first half of the year and as a result are increasing our outlook for fiscal 2012.
Our previous range for normalized earnings per share was $.66 to $.74.
We now believe we will finish in the range of $.70 to $.75 which increases the midpoint of the guidance by $.025.
We are also increasing the midpoint of our free cash flow outlook which Eric will talk about a little bit later.
As we look ahead to the back of 2012 we are generally very optimistic about finishing the year on a high note.
The cash flow characteristics of the business remain strong and we plan to continue to grow our pre-need business building our backlog which requires very little capital.
That allows us to capitalize on value-enhancing opportunities utilizing our current capital deployment priorities.
First reinvesting in our core strategies in high-return low-risk projects.
Secondly investing in strategic acquisitions and new builds at the appropriate returns.
Third returning value to our shareholders through share repurchases and a strategy of increasing our dividend over time.
And lastly managing our debt and liquidity profile by managing cash levels credit facility availability and near-term debt maturities to minimize our risk.
This concludes my prepared comments.
I’ll now turn the call over to Eric.
Good morning everyone.
This morning I’m going to walk you through our thoughts on the cash flow result that we had for the quarter and also give you a little bit of insight into our opinion on the second half of the year.
I’ll also briefly talk about our trust fund performance and GA expenses and I’ll end with some comments about the free cash flow deployment that we had during the quarter.
The start-in with GAAP operating cash flow in the second quarter was down about 4.9 million from the prior year quarter.
However included in this amount in the current quarter was an expected cash tax payment of $6.6 million.
This was related to the settlement of certain IRS matters from prior periods and I talked about that on the last quarter’s call and keep in mind we consider this tax payment as usual unusual and it is not included in our cash flow guidance.
We also paid some modest amounts in terms of system and process costs which is related to the implementation of a new purchase order system at SCI and also the transition to new outsourced providers for certain accounting functions that we have all of which will not recur after 2012.
So isolating these items I just mentioned our adjusted operating cash flow grew just under 2 million in the quarter.
You can see this detailed reconciliation of this amount in our press release and it’s also on slides on our website as well.
The higher EBITDA was generally offset by timing differences in working capital mostly related to the timing of cash receipts from our trust funds during the quarter which is about a $10 million timing difference.
We would expect better working capital inflows in the second half of the year as we believe this is just timing of the trust cash receipts.
Cash interest for the quarter was $62.5 million and our cash taxes were $6.5 million when you exclude the 6.6 million IRS audit payment I just mentioned.
Both of these were consistent with our expectations.
Speaking of cash taxes specifically we originally discussed a range of 20 to 30 million in recurring cash taxes for the full year 2012.
Now we believe this will be more like $15 to 20 million of recurring cash taxes in 2012.
Going back to the cash flow statement our maintenance capex and cemetery development capex and again these are the two components that we consider our recurring capex these amounts in the quarter were $1 million lower than the prior year quarter at $27.6 million and this also was in line with our expectation.
When you deduct these recurring capital spending items from the adjusted cash flow from ops we calculated our free cash flow for the second quarter to be $42 million.
This is a great result as an increase of nearly $3 million or 7% over the prior year quarter.
When we look ahead for the full year 2012 we are revising upward our operating cash flow guidance range from 375 to 425 million to now 390 to 425 million so this increases the low end of the range by $15 million.
It also raises the midpoint of the range by approximately $8 million.
This is consistent with our expectations of the operating growth we’re expecting for the rest of the year and also consistent with the revised earnings guidance mentioned by Tom a few moments ago.
Our recurring capex guidance remains unchanged at 95 to 105 million and this results in anticipated free cash flow range for 2012 of 285 to 330 million or a midpoint now of $307.5 million.
On a per-share basis this range equates to $1.30 to $1.50 of free cash flow per share for 2012 and this is used in a fully-diluted weighted average share count of 220 million shares that we are currently modeling now for 2012.
On these per-share amounts the free cash flow per share yield is in the low double digit percentage range using a current stock price of about $12.50.
G&amp;A expenses were just under $30 million during the quarter.
This is higher than our expectations mainly due to higher incentive compensation costs which related to the performance units component of our long-term incentive compensation plan that is tied to total shareholder return relative to public company peer group.
And as you know our share prices increased during the quarter which has resulted in an increase to accruals under this plan.
Our combined trust fund assets decreased 1.1% during the quarter but they’re still up 5.4% for the first six months of 2012.
Total trust fund income recognized in the income statement for the quarter declined $1.9 million now at an amount that’s 25.2 million for the quarter.
But recall in the prior year quarter we had a one-time distribution of $3 million from an alternative investment that was included in trust fund income in the prior year quarter.
Now let’s turn to deployment of our free cash flow.
During the quarter we continued to buy back our shares.
We repurchased 2.6 million shares for a total investment of 29.6 million which brings our total year-to-date repurchases to just under $103 million.
This nearly doubles the shares that we repurchased last year through the first six months and as of today we currently have 117 million of repurchase authorization and our current shares outstanding are just over 215 million.
We had no debt repurchases during the quarter but we did invest about $10 million close on two acquisitions we drew $7 million on our credit facility during the quarter so we ended the quarter with $72 million in total drawn on our revolver with just under $400 million of availability on our credit facility when you take into account the roughly $33 million of letters of credit that the facility supports.
So in conclusion we are pleased with our performance in the first half.
We’re very excited about the remainder of 2012 as well.
Our healthy cash flow coupled with the strong balance sheet with great liquidity gives us significant financial flexibility for the remainder of 2012.
We remain committed to deploy our strong free cash flow prudently and to pursue value-added investments that will grow earnings and cash flow as well as continue to return value to our shareholders.
So with that Operator that concludes our prepared remarks.
Now we’re ready to turn the call over to questions please.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions).
Our first question is from A.J.
Rice with UBS please go ahead with your question.
Thanks hi everybody – maybe a couple of questions if I could ask.
First of all this is primarily detail but I just want to make sure – so you had to a 2.2 million pre-tax impact from this new purchase order system and so forth that you are putting in place.
That is back out to get to the 18 cents right I believe…  That is correct A.J.
that will not reoccur after 2012 but there is probably another $4 to $5 million of expense.
The back half of 2012 related to us both the purchase order system that we are putting at the funeral homes and cemeteries coupled with a change in our outsource provider of all our accounting functions as well.
Right and then there is also reference to another 2.2 million in related to a settlement – liability settlement in the FX impact between Canada and US.
Now is that backed out as well or how – what is that and how should we [inaudible] that?  That is a reoccurring note that we have.
Okay.
An inter-company note that is put in for some tax planning purposes between Canada and the United States.
It’s down in other income and the FX component goes through other income currently.
Okay.
The reason why we mention that is because last quarter it was about a $3 million positive.
This quarter is was somewhat offset as $2 $2.5 million negative but no that is an ongoing note that will exist over time versus this specific purchase order and accounting process change that we are making during 2012.
I got it okay.
All right and then just stepping back maybe a little bit obviously the numbers on cemetery pre-date production are very good is – I guess I just want your perspective whether you believe that is some catch up on some weakness we had coming out of the down turn or is this sort of a steady – you know is this a rate of growth that we might be able to anticipate sustaining for a while?  A.J.
this is Tom.
I think on the cemetery side it’s a combination of both probably more than the later in the sense that we believe we’re selling more cemetery for a variety of reasons.
First I would say that the baby boomer population is the aid there in front of us today so we got more people to basically make you know generate leads and make sales processes too.
So we are seeing a healthy amount of people that are in front of our sales force.
That [inaudible] when you think about a cemetery it’s less of a homogenous product than a funeral – the  differential in pricing is dramatic.
The part of the increase too I would attribute to the high end buyer coming back – you know you’re comparing against some periods where you didn’t get a dirt of high end sales and now you are beginning to see a little more and more of that.
So those things are probably generating the most.
The other thing about cemetery is because you don’t see a lot of new competition entering markets it’s so hard to get you know permitted to open a new cemetery – the capital permit’s still hard.
You probably don’t see as much pricing pressure as you would see let’s say on a funeral home side - so all of those things kind of come together to allow us to grow that thing at a very healthy lip.
I would tell you that on the Pre-Need side 14% probably is not a sustainable level.
Okay.
Our modeling internally was in the mid high single digits and I think that’s sustainable.
Right and so when you reference your press release of completion of construction projects as one of the boosters to cemetery is that the high end market that you are referring to there?  No a lot of that is just when we’re selling certain property whether it be a lawn [inaudible] garden or whether it be a mausoleum the completion of that construction period they have already pre-sold a lot of those and the accounting doesn’t really recognize it until it’s finished.
That really is what that is.
I think the important thing to understand though – because – I want to point out two things we did complete more construction projects and generate revenue from that in this quarter than we did in the prior year quarter.
At the same time we sold a lot more than we recognize so we are continuing to build that back log and so [inaudible] periods are going to benefit from a lot of sales that are still yet to be constructed or need 10% down payment.
So that is an important fact to understand that quarter-over-quarter there is more construction at the same time we actually differ more in the back log than we did in the prior report.
Okay I got that and maybe one last question.
On your acquisition you referenced two deals for the quarter and just maybe comment on what you are seeing out there at this point.
I think we’re again continuing to see a level of activity and interest being generated probably again by some of the uncertainty surrounding tax policy.
So that is the good new.
I think the other side is it’s probably a little bit more competitive – you know we’re seeing more buyers out there and there for not all deals end up in our lap but we’re staying disciplined about our pricing dynamics and still optimistic about the back half of the year being able to close a decent amount of deals.
Okay.
It’s to the extreme where we don’t and again we still see our share re-purchase program as a great alternative.
All right great thanks a lot.
Thank you our next question is from Robert Willoughby with Bank of America please go ahead with your question.
A related question I guess on the strength of the Pre-Needed cemetery sales here.
You obviously have done an exceptionally well and it sounds like this maybe part of a new world order with the market – the baby boomers working your way.
I guess my question would be you know what are you assuming for trust fund returns for the back half of the year – you’re obviously out performing my own personal portfolio but would that Pre-Need cemetery business be so strong as to offset any potential market disaster do you think in the back half of the year?  I would say we are modeling very very conservative performance in the back half of the year.
For the trust and you know if you were 5% below that do you think that Pre-Need cemetery business is that strong enough to kind of maintain a growth rate – that growth projectory that you are on?  I think so [inaudible].
There are a lot of variables.
Yes we feel pretty good that we can withstand it you know tough back half of the year.
You know catastrophic on might be different.
But I think yes you know a little market erosion isn’t going to hurt our ability to generate that number.
Okay and just – you may have mentioned it Tom Mark I didn’t hear it – just thoughts on the divided to share buy backs exceptional or is it time to revisit the dividend?  Well we are – as far as share buyback goes again we measure the value based up on you know the yield the cash flow yield that the stock is generating.
And as far as dividend policy goes you know as long as our shares as we believe are undervalued relative to what we think it is – we’re going to continue to share our purchase.
At the same time our strategy is to grow the dividend over time.
So since we just initiated a higher dividend that’s going to paid in a couple of days the six cents a quarter we are probably would revisit that you know for another year or so in looking out at the future.
Oh that is fine thank you.
Our next question is from Clint Fendley with Davenport.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you good morning Tom Eric and Debbie.
Just wondering quickly on the two $2.2 million in cost for the new purchase order system I wanted to revisit that a second.
So it sounds like the implementation will continue through the second half and that the additional $4 to $5 million in expenses would also be pro formaed like they were this quarter.
I'm wondering are there any efficiency gains that we should expect for 2013 from the new system?  Yes.
We're never give guidance that specifically and certainly don’t give guidance ahead in 2013 that much Clint.
But I can tell you these are projects we're excited about.
They bring a lot of efficiencies.
We think of this as an investment that has a return to it.
And the return well exceeds our cost of capital.
It's a good investment for us.
But we wouldn’t do it otherwise as well.
But you are correct in also saying that it will continue the rest half of the year to a tune of $4 or $5 million.
But we should get all of this done this year and then start reaping the benefits of the returns in 2013.
And Clint I think what's important to point out here is there's two separate projects.
One we call source to pay which is really a purchasing project.
And then there's a financed and accounting transition project which is really the outsourcing of a lot of F&amp;A functions internally.
The reason we separate these out is because it seems unusual somewhat is they are really kind of transformational projects as it relates to the way that we do things.
And to Eric's point they have a tremendous payoff potential as we think about internal rates return on spending this money.
And so therefore we separated them out for you guys to see.
And to Eric's point these have significant cash payback very quick once they're implemented in.
That's really why we're highlighting them and showing them to you in that they ought to generate significant returns.
Got it okay that's helpful.
And one last question here just wondering the increase in cremation rates seems to have slowed down a bit for you guys.
And I know you continue to blow it out on the pre-need cemetery.
And we've talked a bit this morning about the boomers and they've been a demographic that historically has always changed the way that products and services are bought.
And I'm just wondering I mean are you beginning to see any type of evidence that as a group that they're choosing cremation that as they choose cremation that they're increasingly interested in cemetery products as well?  I mean any sort of takeaways just from the way that they're being your service offerings here?  I think the better way to say it is yes they're choosing cremation more.
And you're seeing that in the numbers.
And remember when you talking about at-need on the funeral side or even premium on the funeral side you're talking above age in the low 70's and above.
The pre-need cemetery customer is slightly different.
The average age here is about 62 years old.
And so here's my opinion and again just Tom's opinion about what's happening.
They're continuing to choose cremation just like we would expect.
At the same time the pool of people is so much larger that as that large pool of people come through the pipeline even though they're still likely to choose cremation in a growing percentage the pools are big.
There's more people selling cemetery property to.
And that trend is based on demographics and ought to continue for another 20 25 years.
So as we look at the cemetery business sure it will be more cremation.
We're going to point more cremation customers into our cemeteries.
And I think there's some evidence that we could do that.
But we're not seeing that in any significant way yet.
At the same time the customers ought to keep coming just because of the demographic that we're dealing with.
Got it.
Okay thank you guys.
Our next question is from Chris Rigg with Susquehanna.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Can you quantify how much of the cemetery increase was from the revenue increase was from completion of the construction projects?  Yes and again what I think what's important to understand here Chris because it's a little deceiving and it's just hard to explain it.
I think the revenues associated and I'm speaking a little bit from memory here with completed construction projects approximated $9 million.
Does that sound right Eric?  Versus let's say a prior year of two or three and what's distinctive about that is that those are the completed sales in those projects that received 10% down.
So what's kind of weird about this is it's really when you complete it how much you have sold.
Obviously there's more to be sold than a lot of these projects too.
So that's what makes that a bit unusual.
But Eric's nodding his head that those numbers are about right.
What I was trying to say is you still had we had an increase of $18.5 million in sales production.
And we recognized an increase of $12 million quarter-over-quarter in the GAAP statements.
So again even though we did have $9 million in the quarter and it's more than we had in the last quarter the backlog's getting bigger not smaller.
So those will roll off and  get constructed over the next 3 to 24 months depending on where the project is and what happens.
So I don’t view the $9 as something unusual or not achievable again in some form or fashion.
Because again it's the $9 is only a symptom of when it gets constructed and what [inaudible].
Sure but would you think the $9 million in this quarter is sort of the high water mark though in terms in 2012 in terms of a bolus of revenue coming on in one particular quarter?  Yes.
Is it one large profit?  Yes I think that's true.
I think that's true that the $9 million construction all flowing in is a big number.
It isn't one you'd expect to recur in any individual quarter correct.
Okay great and then on the funeral margins I mean obviously they were very strong.
Can you sort of give us a better sense for some of the cost management initiatives sort of just better detail around how you're actually bringing on the expense there.
Yes on the funeral side I would categorize them a couple different ways.
Probably the least impactful is energy costs.
We've done some things internally with investment equipment to manage our energy costs better predominately utilities.
You've also seen natural gas prices come down and therefore electricity prices come down.
That's probably the least impactful.
The other ones are we've really gotten better over time at managing staffing costs.
And a lot of this is utilizing models and technology that allowed us to utilize part time and full time employees more efficiently more effectively.
And that's allowed us to basically mute the cost quarter-over-quarter.
And we haven't really seen any increases because of the way that we're managing our staffing costs.
And lastly assumed around the selling cost of what we do we've invested money in tools again that allows to manage leads more effectively.
And therefore when you think about lead generation cost they're becoming more efficient as we're able to retain those leads manage those better with a better trained sales force.
And so we're seeing re-generation costs come down as a percentage of what we sell and even in the raw dollars quarter-over-quarter.
The other thing Chris is back to the cemetery to make sure [inaudible] for everybody.
Think about it this way.
While the $9 million won't repeat you can plead it a lot of projects that you used to sell in selling the backlog.
The same projects still exist and they're still going to be sold every day.
And now they're going to get recognized.
And so therefore they won't show up as a flip of construction but you have more constructed inventory to sell.
And therefore recognize it more quickly.
So don’t think of the $9 as a complete comparison.
Think of it now that you have more readily recognizable inventory to sell.
And so I don’t want to appear like there's a big hurdle to overcome but that's not the way this thing works.
I appreciate the color and then the last question I have is on the G&amp;A.
You said it came in a little bit higher because of some incentive compensation in the quarter.
How do those restricted stock units or I forget exactly how you described them how do those come into the expense line?  Is it simply based on whether the stock moves X amount in a given quarter?  Or is that amount in this quarter simply something that will also be spread across the latter two quarters of this year?  The way it works is this.
The component that Eric was referring to is that we have three levels of currency.
We have stock options which are pretty predictable.
Restricted shares are pretty predictable.
And then we have on-call performance units.
And performance unit is the cash payout that happens after a three year period.
So what you're doing is you're comparing your total shareholder return to a peer group in our case of about 90 companies.
And your relative rank within that peer group determines the cash payout at the end of the period.
So what's happened is because our stock price ran up relative to the market very well during particularly the month of June and we'll continue to see that in July we've had to catch up the accruals because the payment will go up.
It's completely tied to total shareholder's return here through the peer group.
And so because as an example the market tanked in the second quarter XCI went up I think by some 10%.
So the relative performance boost to the top floor tile if you will of stock performance over the last three years.
Okay thanks a lot guys.
Our next question is from Nick Jansen with Raymond James and Associates.
Please go ahead with your question.
Inc.
</strong>  Good Morning guys.
Just two quick ones on the funeral performed obviously saw a little bit of improvement sequentially and I know you have easier comps in the back have of the year.
What are you seeing on the just kind of the at-need trends right now?  You mean at-need trends as far as what the consumer is buying? Inc.
</strong>  Those consumer buying and just the death rate in general.
We’ll give you confidence that we’ll not have even with easier comps in the back half of the year that we won’t still have you know down 3% range?  Right yes.
I don’t think we have – I wish I could give you a lot of confidence but I can’t because I can’t predict the numbers of death that are going to occur.
The reason why we feel a little bit better is exactly what you said in the beginning.
If you go back to 2011 we had a very very strong first half of the year.
We actually in the first quarter had up-comparable volume.
But we knew it was going to be a tough comp when you think about the seasonality of the business.
The second half of the year wasn’t very strong in 2011 and therefore on a comparable basis we feel better about being able to achieve that.
So that’s really the philosophy behind you know when we talk about the back half of the year (inaudible) comps.
But we really don’t know what’s going to happen.
Now from a pricing or from a average revenue spend perspective we feel pretty good.
Because again we’ve got these three initiatives that are out there.
We’re rolling out the refreshed  (inaudible) packages.
Which are centered around consumer choice and flexibility which again ties to being relevant to the consumer.
We’ve also rolled out this reception and events which is a catering type product and additional new revenue strength.
And that again is a profitable one for us.
Client satisfaction is good and we’re seeing a real uptake in that.
Lastly is selling flowers to friends and family through the internet.
And so those are three things are driving average-spent and we feel confident that they’ll continue to grow over the back half of the year and afford us the opportunity to go beyond inflationary pricing as it relates to average revenue per-spend.
Inc.
</strong>  Thank you that’s helpful and I apologies if I missed the first part of the call but obviously there’s been a lot of noise on kind of the wiggle front in certain locations.
I just wasn’t sure if you guys are wanting to comment on any of those developments?  Thanks.
On legal description in the back of our K or Q talking about?  We had (inaudible) from time to time as you know.
I categorized two that are out there that we talked about.
We got the (wage and hour) stuff which again I think is unfortunate that we’ve got to deal with this again.
We believe we’ve been compliant in all those areas.
Those lawsuits are described in the back and we feel confident about our ability to defend ourselves.
And then we’ve had the situation out in LA California with a specific law firm that’s about a lawsuit there and also filed a lawsuit in Florida.
And again we’ll defend ourselves.
We believe again we’ve done everything right.
You know if you go to the California case I think it’s described there.
This wouldn’t even be a case if we didn’t come forward.
This was a situation where we uncovered through inquires some potential burial issues on three or four folks.
We brought this forward we contacted families did all the right things and again this trial attorney wouldn’t have a case if we weren’t doing the right thing.
So we feel confident about our ability to defend that.
We don’t believe that the allegations in the suit are valid.
And we’re going to defend them.
Inc.
</strong>  That’s very helpful.
Then lastly you know obviously you’re predicting a pretty good cash-flow in the back half of the year.
I know there were some timing issues in the second quarter but if MNA isn’t available I know you guys are hopeful that you’ll be a little bit more active on that front in the back half of the year.
Is buy backs the most likely use of that cash or how should we think about that just letting is on the balance sheet so any thoughts on that would be helpful.
Also on the balance sheet yes we believe the shares will be the primary use of the free cash-flow deployment second to the acquisition pipeline that we hope we continue to build momentum there.
And the velocity of that is dependent upon the share price.
I mean again we’ve got an opinion about what’s cheap and what’s really cheap and that’s the way we buy back shares.
Inc.
</strong>  Thanks great quarter guys.
Our next question is from Duncan Brown with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey Good Morning.
I wondered if you could on the reception events and the catering I think you said it was a $3 million contribution in the quarter.
Have those services been rolled out to all of your sites yet or are there still more to go there?  I’m glad you brought that up.
It is available to just about anybody that wants it.
We actually have some state laws that prevent us in certain jurisdictions but it’s available.
What I would tell you is like anything else.
People that embrace it embrace it fully and some people are still learning to embrace it.
And so in our case last time I looked and talked to Steve (Chipbal) on this I would say that of our locations about 36-37% still haven’t sold a catering.
And another 13% have sold one.
So there’s room for improvement and we believe we’re going to get there and – because again what’s nice about this is the feedback from our internal customer as well as our external customers is very very high.
And the satisfaction scores go up so we know this is a great thing that we ought to be doing for our client families and we’ll do more of it in more places.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then just lastly maybe if you give us an update on Neptune what the current revenue topline run-rate is there and how that asset is progressing?  I would say that your Neptune’s currently running slightly behind what we expected it to be on the revenue line and therefore also on the profit line.
I think we’re very encouraged about the potential still.
You know at the same time we’ve done a lot of not a lot but we’ve been focused on opening new locations.
And in doing so and learning from those locations and so we still feel very strongly about Neptune and our ability to capture value there.
But I would tell you on a performance basis we’re slightly behind.
Can you give some collar around why you think that is?  Well you know a lot of it because this is a sales and marketing (bottle) predominantly you know a lot of it has to do with regeneration and so when you look at – as an example I know we spent a bunch of money on regeneration in June.
And just the sure nature of dropping that mail and how much time it takes to generate the lead follow-up and consummate the sale.
So we still feel pretty good about our ability to grow the sales in the back half of the year so a lot of this just gets back to marketing dollars and when you spend them and the time it takes to generate sales off those marketing dollars.
Got it thanks.
We have no further questions at this time.
I’d like to turn it back over to the SCI Management team for any final remarks.
Thank you everyone for being on the call today.
We look forward to talking to you at our next event for third quarter earnings.
Have a great day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen this concludes todays’ conference.
Thank you all for participating you may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q3 2012 Service Corporation International Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Cristine and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to SCI management.
You may begin.
Hi.
Good morning.
This is Debbie Young Director of Investor Relations for SCI.
We welcome you today to our call as we discuss our third quarter results and our outlook for next year.
And our comments today will make statements that are not historical facts and are forward-looking.
These statements are based on assumptions that we believe are reasonable.
However there are many important factors that could cause our actual results in the future to differ materially from these forward-looking statements.
For more information related to these statements and other risk factors please see our filings with the SEC that are available on our website.
Also today on the call we will use the terms normalized EPS adjusted operating cash flow and free cash flow all of which are non-GAAP financial terms.
For reconciliation of these terms to the appropriate measures calculated in accordance with GAAP please see our press release and 8-K that was filed yesterday.
We have also posted a presentation on our website containing each of these reconciliations that you can find under the subheading Website and Presentation.
With that we’ll now begin with comments from Tom Ryan SCI’s President and CEO.
Thanks Debbie and thanks everybody for being on the call today.
We are going to or I’m going to start with an overview of key items from the quarter then move to the more detail review of both funeral and cemetery operations and finally add some additional color on our outlook for 2013.
So to begin an overview of the quarter.
We had an outstanding quarter with significantly increases in both funeral and cemetery profits in an impressive 36% growth in normalized earnings per share that exceeded not only external expectations but our own internal expectations.
I want to thank our hardworking team over 20 000 professionals who make these results possible while continuing to provide everyday extraordinary service to our client families.
These results highlight the leverage we have in our business where modest revenue growth can translate into substantial earnings per share growth.
Our normalized earnings per share increased $0.05 to 19% versus $0.14 in the prior year quarter.
Most of this increase came from operating earnings growth.
Growth in cemetery gross profit contributed approximately $0.02 of the total $0.05 as revenues recognized from the completion of new cemetery property construction project generated comparatively higher margins approaching some 80% because the associated selling costs were recognized in prior periods when the sale occurred.
Comparable funeral profit growth contributed another penny as lower merchandize expense selling and advertising costs and favorable staffing efficiency more than overcame a slight revenue decline.
Non-comparable funeral operations delivered another penny as incremental performance from recent acquisitions began to take hold.
Finally an additional penny improvement came from the favorable impact from share repurchases and foreign currency impact from liability settlement somewhat offset by increases in general and administrative expense predominantly incentive-related and a slightly higher tax rate.
Free cash flow produced during the quarter was $97 million which was up 8% from last year.
We continue to deploy our free cash flow to enhance shareholder value.
During the third quarter we again were active buyers of our stock and also completed an acquisition in North Caroline of three funeral homes.
I want to welcome Stuart Terry and entire team in (inaudible) to SCI family.
We expect to put compete multiple acquisitions in the fourth quarter of this year.
As we look ahead we believe we’ll finish the year strong as we disclose in our press release we have updated our fiscal year 2012 earnings per share guidance above previous ranges and are projecting continued growth in earnings per share as well as solid cash flow in 2013 which I will talk more about in a minute.
Now shifting to an overview of our comparable funeral operation.
Comparable or same-store funeral operations performed relatively well during the quarter despite a decline in revenues.
Our revenues were down $1.2 million driven primarily by 1.8% decline in volume of funeral services.
Reported comparable sales average grew 0.7% but when you exclude the negative effects of Canadian currency translation and trust earnings the two average grew at some 1% despite a 60 basis points increase in the cremation rate.
This is a bit lower than we had anticipated as the impact of Refresh Dignity packaging receptions and events and e-commerce floral sales flatten out of it.
Refresh Dignity packaging centered around consumer choice of flexibility has now been rolled out to the entire network.
The results were general favorable but not as impactful as we would have like across certain of the major metro markets.
We are taking what we’ve learned and going back for follow up training in markets where implementation impact was not what we want it.
Receptions and Event catering continue to benefit our average adding about $3 million to revenue during the quarter but we now left the full network implementation and from here its time changing.
Having said all that we still believe we should see continue year-over-year improvement throughout the fourth quarter and in the 2013 from Dignity packages as we adapt and retrain.
The slight decline in overall revenues was more than offset by prudent cost management lower merchandise costs selling costs field overhead and we were able to grow comparable funeral profits by $3.7 million and improve the gross margin from 100 basis points to 19.9%.
From a preneed perspective comparable preneed funeral sales production was flat during the quarter.
This was solid performance against the strong comparable prior year quarter that was up some 8%.
So year-to-date through nine months we are up just over 4% year-over-year.
We still expect to finish the year as we guided increases in the low to mid single-digit percentage range.
Now shifting to an overview of cemetery operations.
Comparable cemetery revenues increased $4.4 million or 2.3% quarter-over-quarter.
Recall during the first six months of 2012 we grew our recognized GAAP cemetery revenues by $20 million or some 6.4% but our total production revenues grew by some $32 million or 9.1%.
This build into deferral had a negative effect on margins as we recognized selling costs in the period even though the revenues were deferred until constructive.
This quarter part of that benefit of the backlog increase flow through to generate a $5.1 million in GAAP operating revenue.
Also higher trust funding came in the quarter of about $3.5 million was equal to revenue that was recognized in the prior year quarter related to a large property rights transaction.
Comparable preneed sales production declined 1.4% in the quarter.
Although this is slightly down we feel it was a very respectful performance against an unusually strong prior year comparable growth of some 23%.
So again on a year-to-date basis we are up 9.1% performing ahead days with our guidance up mid to high single digit percentage in 2012.
Cemetery profits grew $6.9 million just under 18% for the quarter and margins increased 320 basis points to 23.6%.
This was mainly attributable to the cemetery construction revenues which carry higher margin as we’ve already incurred the selling costs in prior period so these incremental operating revenues of $5.1 I mentioned earlier they generated 80% margins and drop some $4 million to the third quarter margins.
Lower merchandize costs and maintenance and administrative expenses generated from supply chain initiatives made up the balance from the $6.9 million margin improvement.
Now shifting to our outlook.
As disclosed in the press release we raised our earnings guidance for 2012 and have provided our initial outlook for 2013.
We are expecting $0.18 to $0.21 in normalized earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to a prior year number of $0.19 per share.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 we grew GAAP cemetery revenues some $9 million with relatively flat sales production and completed a sizable amount of construction projects.
This year much of that construction was triggered in the third that we’ve just reported.
We believe operating efficiencies where our share count did more than counter act in tough comparable cemetery at quarter that’s coming in the fourth quarter.
Therefore our increased expectations for the full year 2012 are now range $0.76 per share to $0.79 per share.
And again that compares to 2011 a $0.65 earnings per share.
This 2012 expectation from the full year represents an 18% to 22% growth over 2011 all in all a very impressive year in difficult revenue environment.
When I look back what made this year such success usual suspects were there.
First effective management of our cost structure both from a staffing perspective and supply chain.
Second strategic deployment of our free cash flow through our share repurchase program and through acquisitions.
Maybe when I most proud through is continuing to grow our preneed cemetery sales production.
Over 9% on the year-to-date basis following a 12% increase that we incurred in 2011.
We are achieving this growth by expanding the sales radius around our locations and selling to new market segments predominantly through community service sales.
These sales tend to exhibit lower down payments and have a higher proportion of financing terms extend out to 60 months profits come now in the cash of the subsequent payment term period.
These heritage sales not only generate potential future cemetery sales opportunities of friends and family but in our 215 combination facilities where 70% of our total sales production occurs it increases the likelihood that we can provide the funeral services to the family at the time of need.
Looking ahead to the next year 2013 we believe we are all well-positioned to continue delivering solid results for our shareholder that come to respect.
Our earnings per share guidance range of $0.79 to $0.87 at the mid-point represents about 6.5% increase from the mid-point of our expected 2012 earnings per share.
But if you back up the Canadian note currency benefit of some at $1.5 that we’ve incurred in the first nine months of 2012.
This makes our year-over-year true normalized growth in 2013 again at the mid-point closer to 8.5% growth at the high-end of our guidance about 14%.
Now to give you a little color on assumption comparable funeral revenues will continue to be challenging to grow in our event.
We anticipate comparable funeral volume will still be soft down low single digits as we’ve experienced over last two year.
We know one day the volume will come but until then preneed is our best avenue to expand market share.
Comparable funeral average will continue to grow in the low single-digit range absence currency and trust fund impact.
It is a little more challenging this year as Refresh Dignity packages catering events and e-commerce floral sales have been active over 12 months now still we will work very hard at achieving growth for 2013.
On the cemetery side revenues will continue to grow led by preneed production growth in the mid to high single-digit percentage rate.
Remember preneed sales generate about 65% of our operating revenue.
Preneed sales growth will be driven by community service sales expansion continue trading and development around the sales menu precision in particular leading to increase councilor effectiveness and increase headcount.
Keep in mind from all proposes that 35% of our revenue stream is at need cemetery we’d expect that to be relatively flat year-over-year.
Segment margins will be impacted by the traditional inflationary cost in our business but as we do every year we will find ways to minimize that impact particularly through expense more in finance and accounting business process transformation initiatives.
Finally we believe we are well-positioned to achieve long-term growth in our business both organically and through acquisitions.
In the near-term we remain challenged in growing our topline.
However we believe the demographics dictate that our company will experience in the future a natural growth trajectory.
This will be further enhanced by our acquisition strategy and our current focus in investment in growing our pre-need business which today represents a backlog of over $7 billion.
Till then the cash flow characteristics of the business remains strong.
We plan to continue to capitalize on value enhancing opportunities which include returning capital to you through measured share repurchases and a growing dividend.
This concludes my prepared remarks and I will turn the call over to Eric.
Thanks Tom.
I’m going to continue our comments today.
With our prepared remarks I’m going to give you our thoughts about our cash flow results and free cash flow deployment in the third quarter.
Then I’ll have some comments about our cash flow outlook for the remainder of 2012 and I’ll also discussed 2013 as well.
Let’s start with cash flow during the third quarter.
The result in the quarter grew about $7 million or 6% on an adjusted basis over the prior year quarter and this was in line with our expectations.
You can see the reconciliation in our press release and our website that Debbie mentioned but this excludes some modest amounts related to system and process transition costs.
The increase in adjusted operating cash flow was due to higher EBITDA of about $12 million that was partially offset by timing differences in working capital.
These differences primarily relate to our increase in pre-need cemetery property sales that were sold on an installment basis as Tom just discussed in his remarks as well.
Maintenance CapEx and cemetery development CapEx and again these are the two components that we consider our recurring CapEx.
In the quarter these amounts were flat at about $26 million and this again was in line with our expectations.
Deducting this recurring capital spending items from adjusted cash flow from ops we calculate our free cash flow for the third quarter to be about $97 million and this grew roughly 8% over the prior year quarter.
On a free cash flow per share basis this represents $0.44 of free cash flow per share representing impressive growth of 16% over the prior year quarter on a per-share basis.
So I’m going to talk about how we deploy that free cash flow during the quarter.
As Tom mentioned we continued to buyback our shares during the quarter.
We repurchased 3 million shares in the third quarter for a total investment of just under $40 million.
Subsequent to the end of this quarter we bought another 1.4 million shares with just over $19 million.
All of this activity resulted in us purchasing a total of 13.6 million shares for all of 2012 to date for a total amount of about $162 million.
And as of today we currently have just under $60 million of repurchase authorization remaining and our current shares outstanding have been reduced to just about 212 million shares outstanding.
We’ve done a small acquisition in the quarter but more importantly this brings our total acquisition investment year-to-date through the third-quarter to about $90 million in 2012.
Now let’s talk about our cash flow outlook and I’ll start with 2012.
We expect to produce growth in our operating cash flow in the fourth quarter which is expected to be in a range of $100 million to $120 million compared to about $97 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
We also expect our maintenance and cemetery development CapEx to be about the same as last year’s quarter at around $30 million.
Therefore these amounts equate to expected free cash flow for the fourth quarter of 2012 of $70 million to $90 million representing solid growth over the $67 million of free cash flow we generated in the fourth quarter last year.
The fourth quarter solid cash flow performance will result in our operating cash flow of $390 million to $410 million for the full-year of 2012.
This is consistent with our previous guidance range.
Due to our cemetery development projects recognized in the third quarter our maintenance and cemetery development CapEx will be higher than our previous guidance and we’ll end the year about a $110 million which will result in a full year of 2012 free cash flow of $280 million to $300 million.
Importantly on a per share basis the midpoint of this 2012 full-year free cash flow guidance is nearly 11% over full-year 2011.
And as Tom mentioned I also want to thank our entire SCI team of over 20 000 professionals for executing so well during 2012 and generating this impressive free cash flow growth.
Now let me shift to our cash flow outlook for 2013.
And as we look ahead we expect our operating cash flow from our base businesses to grow commensurate with our expected EBITDA growth and our earnings guidance that Tom discussed earlier.
While our funeral and cemetery operating cash flow will grow next year we also disclosed in our press release that we expect to pay $35 million to $45 million of cash taxes during 2013.
This compares to $17 million in cash taxes expected to be paid in 2012.
These levels of cash taxes do not make us a full cash taxpayer due to remaining net operating losses in 2013.
But we do expect to become a full cash taxpayer in 2014 with currently expected cash tax rate of around 30% in 2014.
Our operating cash flow guidance of $375 million to $425 million includes the affect of these anticipated higher cash taxes for 2013.
Capital spending in 2013 will be similar to 2012 levels at a $105 million to a $115 million for maintenance and cemetery development CapEx and probably an additional $10 million for other growth capital expenditures.
By deducting just maintenance and cemetery development CapEx from the operating cash flow we anticipate our free cash flow in 2013 to range from $260 million to $320 million.
So the strong and consistent cash flow continues to be our story here.
We expect our free cash flow per share to grow in a low single-digit range in 2013.
And when we normalize for our increase in cash taxes the midpoint of these free cash flow ranges result at about a 9% growth rate in our free cash flow per share demonstrating the underlying solid cash flows that our funeral and cemetery businesses continue to produce.
That has resulted in a free cash flow per share compounded annual growth rate of about 10% since 2004.
So in conclusion we’ll enter 2013 the same way we plan on expansion 2012 with a solid balance sheet and a good capital structure tremendous liquidity and excited about the opportunities in front of us that allows us to deploy our free cash flow to enhance shareholder value.
So with that operator this concludes our prepared remarks and we are ready to open the call up to questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from A.J.
Rice of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Hello everybody.
A couple of quick questions if I could ask.
On the acquisitions in the quarter and then the comment about -- related to the fourth quarter on the cash flow statement as you spend $9 million for acquisition-related activities is that all of the North Carolina property or was there anything else in there? I think there was some other things that were also in there A.J.
in that I mean all of the number.
Okay.
All right.
With regards to the fourth quarter we are pretty excited about it.
There is a lot of activity.
John Faulk is sitting here with me and his team is working very hard has been on the road quite a bit and there is a number of deals.
I mean I could count them all on one hand about probably two give an idea… Do you think that’s driven by people who wanted to do tax planning ahead of whatever comes next year gets the reduction or talks or do you think you are just seeing a natural pickup in the underlying tone of the market? I think more of the former.
There is a lot of people that are being driven by fear as to what is to come with regards to taxes.
But again that is probably what pushes them more to the hump only getting by just selling just for that reason.
You get to a point where it makes sense but we definitely are seeing I’d say some acceleration of that behavior.
Okay.
And then maybe just one other area.
Clearly in the quarter there was some discussion about all of things that were happening in the REIT world and non-traditional companies are looking at taking on REIT structures and so forth and for whatever reason your name is serviced on that.
Can you give us any maybe a little discussion about what you're thinking along those lines will be and the opportunity and the challenges to considering something like that might be? Hey David.
This is Eric.
As you know and you’ve seen our track record we are always looking at different projects and different ways to enhance shareholder value.
A REIT structure that came up recently mostly because of the non-traditional REITs out there is just one piece of an equation.
They were always looking at ways to increase our shareholder value.
The update is that structurally there's some complexity for a company to get into that in a non-traditional REIT area and we are currently forming our opinion at that.
But I would tell you that it’s going to take a while for us to complete that analysis.
And again A.J.
the full benefit of a REIT would be when you are a full taxpayer and as Eric pointed out we are still not but always worthy of aspiration for the benefit of shareholder value.
So if we just get to a point where we got under this offer we’ll surely let you guys now.
All right.
And then maybe just final thing here.
In your guidance for next year you didn’t mentioned buyback or acquisitions.
I'm assuming there is no further buyback baked in there.
It sounds like you’ve probably pursued but you just didn’t baked in there and is that true for acquisitions as well? Yeah.
I think what we’ve done in there is minimal amounts of both because again we don’t know which way we are going to drive it and what’s going to happen and that’s being consistent with whatever we’ve done over the last few years predominantly.
So yeah there is some upside to capital deployment in 2013.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Chris Rigg of Susquehanna.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
I just wanted to and maybe I missed it and if I did I apologize.
But did you guys give directionally what do you think operating income next year is going to be up or down relative to 2012? Yeah.
The operating income is going to be Chris for sure and again not looking at our sheet but my memory operating income should be -- I don’t have in front of me because I don’t know.
I think on a pre-tax basis it’s surely somewhere in the $8 million to $15 million range like that.
Okay.
And then the tax rate for the guidance next year is what percent? It would be north around where it is right now which is 37% to 38% absent any type of discrete items that’s up that obviously they are not forecasted.
Okay.
And then on the cemetery develop and project completion for next year.
Is that going to be comparable to this year or up or down or any color there would be helpful? I think generally it’s going to be about the same Chris the way to think about it because our philosophy on cemetery sales which shifted back in the mid-2000 it’s been pretty consistent year-over-year and we are building fantastic cemetery inventory for people to see and to buy and that’s really been the strategy that we’ve deployed which is a little heavy on capital in the front but really generates sales in the back.
So we are going to continue that program in 2013 and beyond.
Okay.
And then just qualitatively on the refresh dignity and you guys said you’re going to -- given what you saw in the quarter going to go back out to the field and do some retraining.
Can you give us a sense for what you guys are seeing that you don’t like with regard to the refreshment of the product? It is so much that we don’t like.
I think what we find Chris we want to get this out there.
People are anxious for it to get into markets.
And when you think about going into funeral home side almost 1500 locations.
It is the chore and we only have so many resources to train and so we want to get it up and running.
And so what I would say is we got to be up and running in every place we possibly can.
And what we find is in one market it’s very successful because it was trained well received well and we’re seeing an traction and their market next door maybe a total different reaction for a variety of reasons that may be that we didn’t stay long enough due to training.
So what we find is when we roll these things out sometimes it doesn’t track the first half.
So we’ll be doing the rest of this year and early part of next year.
We’re going back to the market and saying why hasn’t this worked because the concept of this refresh was enhanced flexibility.
One of the pushbacks we had for forward it was flexible enough too rigid of a program.
So we think what people really understand the benefits of the flexibility and understand the substitution capabilities with regards to product that once that really registers it’s going to take hold of all these markets.
So that’s our mission 2013 and I feel pretty good about it.
I’m just -- pointing out that we have ruled it out now to everybody.
It’s improvement from here.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Clint Fendley of Davenport.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Nice quarter and nice outlook here.
First question on the cemetery side I guess and if I understood you correctly it sounds like obviously benefit flow through in the quarter about $5.1 million due to the cemetery construction.
I wondered how much we would expect to potentially hit then in the fourth quarter and if you could find that against what I believe you characterize this sort of a tougher quarter that’s coming up for this cemetery segment.
Yeah.
Let me speak to the 5.1.
It’s a little confusing Clint.
I’ll try to clarify for you.
What we call construction revenues is once this is completely constructed whatever has been sold in that backlog gets triggered.
Little bit of a deceiving number.
The number for the quarter was probably more like $7.5 million of more constructed revenue.
Let me explain what constructed revenue really is these days.
If you think about our project that’s been built we’re selling it aggressively in the first part of the year and particularly in this quarter.
Just think about this quarter beginning in first day of July we’re sort of heck out of a project that’s going to be completed at the end.
Lot of the sales occurred during the third quarter.
It just so happens is that it has deferred into a bucket until that final world has put in and now that’s considered constructive.
So I think the better way to think about it is to look at the production that’s occurring over periods of time and again we are up 9% on a premium basis year-to-date.
So when you think about the fourth quarter we have lot of that constructed activity occur in the prior year.
We won’t have as much “constructed inventory” whereas I do believe though is we’re going to sell more and be able to recognize more because that constructive inventory already exists.
So rather than confusing with when things get called construction and not I would point you towards we feel comfortable that from a production basis in what we’re able to recognize we’re going to have a solid fourth quarter.
Just know that the accounting treatment of last year’s quarter gave it a heavier dose of profit.
Again not something we can overcome just relative information for you.
Okay.
So we still expect this as strong quarter but probably just not quite as good as the 22.5% margin that we saw a year ago.
Is that the right word? Probably so.
I mean I’m saying it can’t do it but again I think that was helped by the fact that you recognized their revenue in the selling costs went there.
You already took it in prior quarters in 2011.
So agreed with your statement but again we feel if you look at the guidance 18% to 21% for the fourth quarter that shows you that hey we’re in the ballpark of last year may be beaten it.
The things that are going to really help us to have a reduced share count and we’ve done a good job of managing our expenses throughout the year.
So we believe that’s going to overcome any differential in the cemetery business if there is one.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And did you guys notice any -- just change in the selling environment for the pre-need during the quarter and any changes on the part of the consumer? Not anything to speak of but again I think the two things to decline.
I mean year-to-date 9.1% and we’re comparing against the third quarter of last year that grew 23%.
So over the loss of 4% and that we really trying to overcome.
So I don’t see anything.
I mean the clearly the consumer is a bit distractive by things that are happening out there and we’re seeing that consistently over the last few years.
And again review of what we sell as -- while it is discretionary it’s probably one of the least discretionary when you characterize those items because it’s a planning event.
It’s taking care of something.
It’s getting people peace of mind.
So even in difficult times people are coming back and wanting to take care of something like this.
So nothing noticeable to point out for you at this point.
Okay.
A couple of questions quickly here on the guidance.
I wondered what share count was implicit within the fourth quarter guidance.
Are we expecting maybe slightly north of the I believe $212 million that you referenced in the commentary? From a weighted average perspective it will be slightly higher than that.
I think for the whole year the weighted average comes down to just under $220 million for the whole year.
Okay.
And I wondered what volume expectation was baked into the 2013 guidance.
We’re still sort of thinking flat to slightly down.
Yeah.
I think our midpoint of our guidance is slightly down similar to the trends we experienced in the last two years.
Okay.
And then final question I mean just any idea when you might be able to complete the lead analysis that you’re doing.
And I wondered if you’ve had any discussions with IRS on the potential conversion yet? We’ve not done any discussions with the IRS client on a potential convergent.
If we go down this research path that we’re doing forming an opinion and it continues to look like something that will give us tax efficiency we’ll continue to go as far as we can to form the full opinion as where I describe it.
If you do involve the IRS it’s not going to be timely.
My guess would be maybe 6 to 12 months we could have that opinion formed one way or the other.
Okay.
Excellent.
Thank you guys and again nice quarter.
Thanks Clint.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Robert Willoughby of Bank of America.
Yeah.
Tom and Eric can you speak to just sort of the revenue trends surprising trends you’re seeing under base cremations and then kind of some representation of what you’re seeing under the memorialization-type event cremation event that you have? How was the number of those growing and how surprising comparing? I think on the cremation side Bob I don’t have anything right in front of me but looking at some of the churns cremation growth is actually better than the burial growth from a percentage perspective.
So we’re seeing some traction in people again probably in our enhanced presentation materials in our ability to deliver products associated with more relevant to cremation consumers.
So the churns on cremation pricing actually is little better than historical memorial.
And again speaking over quite a longer period of time and not so much to the quarter but even in a quarter I’m looking at something now that is up.
I think some 3% on a year-to-date basis for cremation and on the burial side closer to 2 2.5.
So trends are good there.
Again I don’t think the tough part someone referenced before it’s still a tough economy out there and I don’t think you have highly confident consumer particularly our targeted audience with interest rates as well as they are that being in a very consumable spend to where again very cognizant of that fact in trying to find ways to make these things affordable through payment terms upon pre-need basis.
But we’ve been able to continue to enhance the pricing mainly through increased mix getting people to buy additional product and services that are relevant.
So we feel pretty good relative to other retailers realizes it’s a challenge.
And just to be clear dormant there is a base cremation which should be kind of at the lowest end business you see and do but you -- I guess you’re seeing -- you do see a little bit of a price pump there and then we kind of percentage of cremations that are answering taking more and more two or months one or more -- two or more of the things that you offer some type of memorialization issue.
What representation of that is is that the total cremation procedures? Is that a fair question? Yeah.
It is and I think on both accounts we’re seeing increases obviously on -- increases on direct cremation that’s a direction function of our pricing.
And again we view direct cremation as something we want to participate in but again we’ve got to have a price that allows us to make some money in this business.
And so with inflationary cost of that one I think it’s up some 2% or so year-over-year.
And so the reason we get to the 3 3.5 for the year is that cremation was services doing even better.
Because again back of that expanded take up rate and getting each packages more.
So we feel good about both trends.
I’d say the direct cremation trend is going to correlate well with base inflation and the other one that has ability for upside with regard to products and services.
And just to go with healthcare the guidance for next year.
I’m not pushing the volume.
I’m not really kind of pushing any type of trust for return assumption.
So there is a lot of things happening on the margin.
Can you possibly give us the buckets in terms of what the bigger drivers what the smaller drivers and things like the newer services like events planning in each laurel.
What are those adding year-over-year in terms of your guidance increase? Okay.
I think the way to think about it Bob is this.
On a funeral side we launched a lot of new things in 2012 which had an impact.
First take any packages as you mentioned e-commerce floral sales additionally the catering in events packages all those things are in the 2012 number because I think about 2013 we should see some bounce but probably harder to overcome because you’re comparing back again those initiatives.
So the funeral side of business so we’re sharing something exciting to tell you.
I think our expectation that we could maintain margins we will have slight revenue increase which eke out slight increases in cash flow.
And the real -- left side 2013 like we’ve said over the last few years our ability to grow cemetery profit.
And that’s predominantly going to be a function of our ability to maintain sales minimal on a pre-need basis.
So open that cemetery inventory training and getting good leads and utilizing those leads effectively leading into the system.
So I think it’s really going to hinge upon how successful are we on selling pre-mature.
We also know that we’ve got initiatives launched that are going to say this to money.
I referenced them a little bit spend smart which is a new system that is going to allow us to have information to manage our supply chain much more effectively.
So it’s a fantastic system that we think is going to allow us to leverage some of our sizing units.
And secondarily Eric mentioned earlier we’ve got to financing accounting business process improvement where we lose some off shoring capabilities that with one vendor to another is going to allow us to really transform the way we do the financing and accounting function and save us a lot of money in the mean time.
It’s a long-term project and it pays down over five years but these are two things in particular that you’re going to leverage again our size and be able to reduce some of our costs.
So look further for that and look for the cemetery and that’s going to tell the sales how good 2013 is.
We’re going to lend some good acquisitions.
We got some good ones that we’ve had so far this year mostly close to more in the fourth quarter and those will be impactful but again not a lot more.
That tends another one.
They have enough tunnel continue to improve.
We’re very pleased with the progress.
Great management team there in driving performance.
So all these little things that I’d say pretty cemetery that’s going to row the boat.
So that is the one door you’re making a bet on the economy as well I guess would you characterize the such goal for that pre-need cemetery businesses and be the stretch or is it really going to be more confident? I feel very confident.
I mean we saw what happened in 2008 I am not going print to you.
You had another 2008 2009 event.
We saw health insurance sales freeze up.
And the good news is they came back out of the shelves they come up later.
That something that we can’t control but we think about our model Bob and you understand as good as anybody.
On the funeral side we recognized revenue when we have a volume event and when we collect the price.
There is not a lot you can do move a gap profit.
On the cemetery we have ability to that cemetery sale to leverage both cash flow and earnings per share.
So unfortunately because of accounting that’s the thing and it is more economically sensitive than the former.
So you are right.
It is a little more economically sensitive.
Currently the last cycle is it will come back after a terrible event.
I don’t expect that I think its different circumstance.
I am confident that 2013 is going to -- our politicians work this hour right we’ll get there.
Politicians.
Okay.
That’s great.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Duncan Brown from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
You referenced the implementation of the new purchase order system plus some changes I believe in outsourcing providers and if I read the press release is right there was a roughly a $2.5 million hit to G&amp;A because of that is that one-time in nature or how should we think about that? Well it’s one-time during 2012 and we should have those systems and process transformation cost behind us for the most part.
Well yes those specific cost that you referring to relate to those two projects and we are finishing those projects.
But obviously there is always tweaking on the back-end.
So maybe some of that weak into the -- through the first quarter of next year but generally that’s correct Duncan.
So another roughly 2.5 for Q4 as well is that fair? Yeah.
Got you.
Thank you.
And then maybe going to the reception and events front I mean it sounds like that’s flight line a little bit at least sequentially.
Tom I think last quarter you gave some stats about certain locations having even the cadence available everywhere but certain locations have even sold one.
I want to if you could update us on that and then the progress that how you drive that further? Sure.
I think I will tell you that the update isn’t dramatically different.
We moved it slightly.
We still probably have some 40% of our location that have either sold one or none.
Now we give you hope right because that is discount flat line.
When you think about how we trained all this there is actually one team that has implemented the daily packages and pricing.
Those are same people that are doing they are helping the rollout the events in catering.
And so what happened is we have been initiating with rollout as you can imagine.
We’ve now completed that.
So think of this team we really really good team by the way.
They are now going to be able to right to approach and go back into fixed places that have been implemented to our expectations at this point.
And so instead of having to run through market and do the initial rollout they are going to go focus on for in this area or catering in this area or DVD package uptake in this area.
So I knew this is our -- we’ve been shoot the shotgun last season in this season its using arrival and going in and fixed anything.
So I think we are going to have traction in both catering as well as we take a break in markets that really need the assistance in the training.
So that’s the upside to this.
Thanks.
And then just one numbers question how much is that on the revolver currently please? About $77 million on a revolver Duncan.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our last question is from John Ransom of Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Just been under the wire.
A couple of things your acquisition of Neptune what have you learned on the cemetery business I am sorry the cremation business and what have you been able to do if anything that cross pollinate your cremation efforts across your mainstream franchise? Well I think at this point we’ve leaned from Neptune is that in this five crunches cremation consumer getting in front of them ahead of time is a tremendous benefit.
Because these consumers typically probably lack information in order to make the decision.
And so when it’s made on hourly basis there is not enough time or thought to goes into it.
We are finding that their approach to getting in front of these folks and explaining the options to them in terms of take a $600 and $700 spend in their mine to somewhere closed to $1800.
And that is probably the real life switch for us as it relates to dealing with this cost conscious direct cremation consumer.
As far as cross colonization there is plans in place to begin to do a lot more of that.
So we can begin to think about some other things one similar for us is leveraging scale they sell lot of earnings we buy our earns we buy more than they did we can leverage our cost benefit in to their model.
We are learning things about how they do direct mail and dealing with cremation consumers and being able to transfer some of that.
And actually put some of that management under them as well.
We had an NCS brand that did try to do similar things although under different model.
And as you think about the cemetery we’ve got cremation gardens and parks of the country and again our unique opportunities for this consumer to consider.
And whether that’s its going to work or not work in different locations again we get back to how we train it and how we present it to the consumer.
So all that’s kind of a work in progress right now John we are focused on with Neptune in particularly is growing the model.
We’ve actually open new offices this year alone in Chicago Detroit Minneapolis Milwaukee Indianapolis New Orleans Nashville Atlanta Albuquerque this is the real opportunity is the put this model in front of the consumers if we want going to see because our approach was it going to attack the cost conscious direct payment.
So that’s probably we were focused on more versus cross organization at this point.
Having said its on a radar screen and we will continue working.
Hey nice.
Just a couple other ones.
What was the contribution approximately to EBITDA this year from the good returns you have got another year trust fund? Well in total the trust fund income is model to be about $95 million to $100 million for the full year.
Now there is a lot of cost associated with that as well but that’s pretty much talking online depending on how you want to think about it was really doing is offsetting inflation for us.
But generally when you think of EBITDA and you do the math on the guidance it’s close to $600 million EBITDA company.
Right.
But I am saying when you gave your guidance you want assuming these levels of returns.
I mean is there upside is there some upside in -- you have been once you get return you got.
Right.
I think you asked about the quarter.
But if you move into to 2013 no we assume learn single-digit… I am sorry.
Yeah.
I am sorry.
I am not very very clear on that the year-to-date numbers the good numbers out of your trust how they -- how much does they help you year-to-date number relative to what you are modeling initially? It’s without $75 million year-to-date as I expected and I would say last year somewhere between $70 million and $75 million.
So its not very material.
I mean as you know the first quarter it was good.
The second quarter was good.
And then it’s comeback in the first quarter.
So it’s not really moving the needle too much.
John.
Generally reason for that is… Okay.
This is a confusing topic.
Because some of those who don’t know what we do.
Take a $1 billion trust portfolio 100 banks this morning is 10 million bucks in the year that’s sound great even 100 basis point is 10 million.
Guess what $9 million of that $10 million gets deferred into the backlog.
The reason with the robust returns in the market this year think of it this way we get about 10% of the benefit of what’s happening within that trust fund because all type of the event of death and we will rollover some 10% of our backlog each year.
So that’s why I think in highly accretive markets is not nearly beneficial as people would expect and Mike we learn in 2008 2009 when the markets trader -- it doesn’t reflect through our income statement as quickly.
So great question and it’s not a big number as Eric pointed out because again at the deferral speculating some backlog.
Yeah.
I think a number Eric you used to give us like everyone 1% was a $1.5 million of EBITDA I don’t know if that number still hold but that’s the number from kind of the areas… Yeah.
It’s pretty close John.
Its about a 1% is probably more closer to million than $10.5 million generally that’s true and its all because of their 10 year contracts 10 year assets lives… Right.
Okay.
And then lastly just I was looking at your longer terms model the other day and clearly there has been structural improvement in the cemetery of about 400 basis point could you just take a step back and look at and that business used to be very -- the margin used to be incredibly volatile and it looks now the cemetery margins are both higher and little lot -- lot less volatile than used to be.
Is that structural is that something that you can help us to understand that a little better? Sure.
I really think its two things and they can’t go hand in hand.
One  is we have a very definitive strategy as it relates to cemetery property that we embarked upon -- some call it seven years ago and that was build and they will come number.
Remember Kevin Faster maybe… We are building… Fantastic inventory that we believe we can sell and people look money we will buy as they can see it.
So a lot of our strategy was putting fantastic things out there and then being able to sell it.
Than you.
It’s a robust portfolio to go out and sell any point in time.
We have had the stability to visit.
Certainly we did because we really invested in our sales force and our sales management in leads and lead management systems and putting the way of effort behind that we’ve seen total for any cemetery production growth.
This is on a comparable base 7% in 2009 6% in 2010 over 12% in 2011 9% in 2012 that John that consistency as it’ relates to many cemetery growth (inaudible) inventory and putting the impetus on training has allowed us to really growth the profitability of that segment.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We have no further questions.
I will now turn the call back over to SCI Management.
Thank you very much on the call today.
I will look forward to seeing you for year end call sometimes in February.
Thanks very much.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q4 2012 Service Corporation International Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Loren and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to SCI management.
Please go ahead.
This is Debbie Young Director of Investor Relations for SCI.
On behalf of the company I want to welcome you to our call today as we discuss our fourth quarter results and also talk a little bit about our outlook for 2013.
Before I turn the call over to Tom let me remind you that the comments made by our management today will include statements that are not historical and are forward-looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections.
These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those factors identified in our press release and in our filings of the SEC that are available on our website.
Today's comment may also include certain non-GAAP measurements such as normalized EPS adjusted operating cash flow free cash flow and free cash flow per share.
Reconciliations of these measurements to be appropriate measures calculated in accordance with GAAP is provided on our website and in our press release and 8-K that was filed yesterday.
Now let me turn the call over to Tom Ryan SCI’s President and CEO.
Thanks Debbie and thanks everybody for being on the call today.
Let me begin my comments by giving some overall perspective on 2012 before getting into details of the quarter in our 2013 outlook.
We finished the year on very solid footing and overall I am very proud of what our teams accomplished in 2012.
Normalized earnings per share grew an impressive 23% to $0.80 from the $0.65 that we've posted in the prior year and exceeded the high end of our guidance.
As we anticipated our comparable Funeral segment for the year was challenging the growth with continued sale volumes in the first three quarters in 2012 that we were pleased to be able to increase gross profits by more than 4% with an 80 basis point improvement in margin.
Throughout the year our operating teams have done an extraordinary job of improving efficiency and managing costs.
And most importantly our Funeral segment continued to generate significant cash flows.
On the symmetry side we once again hitted out the ball hard and demonstrated that we are very effective in our pre needs sales efforts.
Our comparable symmetry revenues were up more than 6% for the year and gross profits were up an impressive 19% including the 240 basis point improvement in margin.
And finally we generated $272 million of free cash flow.
We returned close to 250 million to our shareholders through a combination of share repurchases and dividend additionally we directed more than $70 million to strategic acquisitions in growth projects during the year.
As we indicated to you on our last call the fourth quarter was very active for us in the acquisition arena.
We closed on four deals adding 11 funeral homes to our net worth.
These businesses have combined revenues of approximately $20 million and we welcome them to our SCI family.
These successes we achieved in 2012 could not have been possible without each and every one of our 21 000 associates.
To them I want to say that I am grateful for your dedication and commitment and I sincerely appreciate all that you do to make us a better company and to deliver service excellence to our client families every day.
Now shifting to an overview of the quarter we posted outstanding results in the fourth quarter with earnings exceeding the high-end of our guidance ranges discussed in October.
Normalized earnings per share increased $0.03 or nearly 16% to $0.22 versus $0.19 in the prior year quarter.
This was accomplished by generating strong preneed cemetery sales performance and increased funeral revenues on higher volume and average.
Now for an overview of funeral operations for the quarter comparable funeral revenues increased nearly $18 million or 4.8% and was ahead of our expectations.
Let’s talk a little bit about the key drivers.
We were very pleased to see a 1.5% increase in same store funeral volumes during the quarter.
Keep in mind we had an easy comparable as the fourth quarter 2011 was down over 5%.
This quarter was for the most part just to return to a more normalize level.
For the full year 2012 same store volumes were down 2% which was in line with our expectation.
Complementing the volume growth we also saw an increase in the average sale with 2.3% isolating the currency and trust fund impacts the average grew at 1.3%.
This was accomplished despite 50 basis point increase in the mix of cremation.
For the full year our average was up 2.2% in line with what we’ve modeled.
This was accomplished by contributions from our new reception and event offerings Refresh Dignity Packages as well as price modifications which offset a 60 basis point increase in the cremation mix for the year.
Lastly in the quarter general latency revenue increased $1.7 million on a 2% growth in preneed funeral sales production.
From a profit perspective comparable funeral profits increased 6% and the margin grew 30 basis points during the quarter.
The strong revenue increase was partially offset by higher incentive based compensation payments higher healthcare costs and higher selling expenses related to preneed funeral sales production.
Now for an overview of cemetery operation.
Comparable cemetery revenue increased $21.6 million or 11.3% quarter over quarter and also exceeded our expectations.
I must tell you I'm running out of adjectives to describe the success we've had.
Our sales team continues to amaze.
Comparable preneed sales production grew a strong 14% in the quarter and greatly exceeded our expectations.
For the full year preneed cemetery sales production grew a little over 10%.
This is just great execution a big thank you to our sales team and sales leadership for continuing to deliver exceptional results.
Cemetery trust fund income also increased $6 million during the quarter due to the positive impact from the financial markets an increased trust fund balances.
The cemetery revenue growth generated profits growth of $13.7 million or 31.5% for the quarter and margins increased 410 basis points 26.8% which is what you'd expect on an incremental revenue increase we generated.
So we are very pleased with our cemetery results.
Now shifting to our outlook for 2013.
We're in full swing for what we anticipate to be another strong year in 2013.
As indicated in our press release we're increasing our guidance for normalized earnings per share that we provided to you last quarter of $0.79 to $0.87 per share to a new range of $0.80 to $0.90 per share.
At the midpoint our 2013 earnings per share guidance represents about a 6% growth from 2012.
However if you remove the foreign currency benefits from intercompany notes of a penny that we generated in 2012 the normalized growth will be closer to 8% at the midpoint.
Just to reiterate our broad assumptions included in our 2013 outlook we expect growth in funeral revenues will continue to be a challenge we're continuing to model funeral volumes down in the low single digit percentage range even though January was very busy with the impact of the flu season.
We would anticipate the tapering off of activity as the year progresses.
We'll continue our strategy to focus on growing our preneed backlog and we expect preneed funeral sales to grow in the low mid-single digit range.
We expect the funeral average to continue to grow in the low single digit range as well absent currency and trust fund impact.
Speaking to average for presentation purposes starting in the first quarter of 2013 Neptune will be included in both the 2012 and 2013 comparable amounts.
For the year-over-year change we’ll not be materially different than what you're used to seeing it will only impact the absolute sales average dollars to gross margin percentage in cremation rate.
If you need any help on that obviously you can get in touch with Debbie and she will talk you through it.
On the cemetery side revenues will continue to grow lead by strong preneed sales production the double digit growth we’ve achieved in the last two years have been outstanding.
We think this will be hard to replicate going forward.
Our models for 2013 suggest growth in the mid high single percentage range versus the 10% and 12% increases we've experienced in 2011 and again in 2012.
From a margin perspective we'll continue to be diligent in managing costs but we’ll face some headwinds from an anticipated increase in personnel cost specifically related the higher healthcare insurance expenses and salaries as well as increase in preneed selling costs on anticipated higher preneed sales.
In conclusion we could not be more pleased with the trajectory of the results we continue to deliver and we look forward to successful 2013.
As a reminder our strategy remains the same.
Demographics dictate that our industry will experience a natural growth trajectory over the coming years.
We will capture more than our share as we expand our network through acquisitions and continue to grow our preneed backlog.
Meanwhile we’ll generate substantial cash flow that we intend to use to capitalize on value enhancing opportunities which include returning capital to you through measured share repurchases and a growing dividend.
This concludes my prepared comments and I’ll now turn the call over to Eric.
Good morning everybody I’m going to start this morning I’m going to walk you through the details of our cash flow for the quarter and the year and how we deployed that free cash flow to grow the company and also to enhance shareholder value.
And now I’m going to finish with a few comments about our cash flow outlook as we shift forth towards 2013.
So as Tom mentioned we are very proud of the way we finished 2012 on a really high note delivering strong earnings which exceeded our expectations.
We also generated more than $270 million of free cash flow in 2012.
We deploy this cash throughout the year in a disciplined manner primarily between accretive acquisitions and also returning cash value to our shareholders.
The free cash flow generated in 2012 represents a $1.24 of free cash flow per diluted share and its growth of 4.2% over 2011's free cash flow per share which was a $1.19.
And just to remind you this is despite slightly higher cash taxes paid in 2012 versus 2011.
We are anticipating cash flow to grow in 2013 and again this is despite a further increase and expected cash tax payments that I'll address in a moment.
We have a long history of strong free cash flow despite a variety of economic and other challenges in the current years.
But over the last eight years our free cash flow per diluted share has grown at a compounded annual growth rate of about 9.5%.
We strongly believe this is attractive from an investment standpoint and again especially in today's tough economic environment.
Now let's shift to the results of the fourth quarter and start with operating cash flow which in the quarter was $92 million compared to $97 million in the prior year quarter.
So slightly below the prior year and slightly below our internal expectations.
There are really two items that affected our cash flow that were different than our internal quarter to date expectations.
First preneed cemetery sales were up a strong 14% in the quarter which is well ahead of our expectations.
And again we were extremely pleased to see this high quality performance from our sales force.
As I have been describing though for the past couple of quarters most of our growth in our preneed cemetery sales are increasingly made on an installment basis with average payment terms of around five years.
So while we continue to see an increase in cemetery revenues the associated cash will be received in future periods resulting in a use of working capital during the quarter of 2012.
Also described in previous calls at the end of the third quarter we rolled out a new purchase order and accounts payable system.
While we said before we are very excited about this new and improved system and expect it to generate significant synergies as we gain greater visibility into company expenditures.
But we did experience more cash outflows during the fourth quarter as we caught up from the initial implementation of this system from the third quarter of 2012.
Now other components of cash flow let's start with maintenance CapEx and cemetery development CapEx which again are the two components that we consider our recurring CapEx and this for the quarter came in at about $33.5 million.
When you deduct these recurring capital spending items from our cash flow from operations we calculate our free cash flow of the fourth quarter to be $58.5 million.
For the full year 2012 cash flow from operations was just over $380 million and when you deduct the recurring CapEx of a $109 million for the full year that results in a free cash flow for 2012 of just over $271 million and as I mentioned before this represents a $1.24 per diluted share or a growth of 4% year over year.
So let's talk about how we deploy this free cash flow.
During the quarter we continue to deliver on our commitment to return excess cash to shareholders and we're actually very active in the acquisition market.
So first in the fourth quarter we repurchased 3.1 million shares for a total investment of just over $42 million.
For the full year of 2012 we bought back 15.3 million shares for a total investment of about $185 million.
This represents a reduction of about 7% of the shares that were outstanding at the beginning of the year.
And as of today we currently have approximately $190 million of repurchased authorization remaining and our current shares outstanding have been reduced now to just over $211 million shares outstanding.
As Tom mentioned earlier today we also had a very busy acquisition quarter closing on four acquisitions for a total investment of about $46 million.
We funded the acquisition from our cash balances in December.
This brings our total acquisition investment for the full year to more than 65 million in 2012.
We are very excited about these new additions and their anticipated positive and accretive contribution to both earnings and cash flow as we look forward in 2013.
Lastly I wanted to mention that during the quarter we did refinance our 2014 notes effectively extended this maturity to 2020 and opportunistically replacing seven and [7.38%] debt with 4.5% debt.
So now let’s look forward to 2013.
In 2013 we expect to continue to generate attractive operating cash flow and we remain comfortable with the guidance we provided in October which was 375 million to 425 million of operating cash flow.
At the midpoint this implies growth over 2012 of nearly $20 million and that $20 million growth is accomplished again despite the headwind of an expected increase in cash taxes and again we expect our current cash taxes in 2013 to be in a range of $35 million to $45 million which was up from just under 17 million of current cash taxes paid during 2012.
Our recurring CapEx guidance remains unchanged as well at 105 million to 115 million which results in anticipated free cash flow for the full year 2013 to range from $260 million to $320 million.
On a per share basis this equates to $1.20 to $1.48 range for 2013 and that’s used in a fully deluded weighted average share count of 216 million shares which is what we’re currently modeling for 2013.
At the midpoint of this range it represents a growth of more than 8% over our 2012 free cash flow per share but if you normalized the cash tax increase that I just described to you it's actually more like a 17% growth and free cash flow per share.
So we enter 2013 both financially strong with a solid balance sheet and great liquidity.
With our recent refinancing we continue to have a debt maturity profile with no meaningful debt maturities until April 2015.
This profile and favorable leverage metrics position us well to continue to explore value enhancing opportunities for our shareholders in 2013 so our first priority is to continue to invest in opportunities to grow the company for the future.
You can expect this in 2013 that we’ll target acquisitions again at the appropriate returns.
We have a healthier pipeline of profitable growth opportunities now than what we've seen in a long time.
We will also continue to invest in preneed initiatives which is not a very capital intensive initiative as we described in the past.
Our backlog of preneed revenues which will be recognized sometime in the future is now $7.4 billion which adds to the stability and predictability of both our earnings and our cash flow streams.
And of course consistent with our track record to the extent we have excess cash remaining and conditions are favorable.
We will continue to invest and share repurchases.
So In conclusion we look forward to another successful year in 2013 with anticipated growth of approximately 8% and both normalized free cash flow and normalized earnings per diluted share at the midpoints of our 2013 guidance.
So with that operator that includes mine and Tom's remarks we now like to turn the call open for questions please.
(Operator Instructions)  And our first question comes from A.J.
Rice from UBS  A couple questions if I could ask.
On the flurry of deals at the end of the quarter there can you give us a little more flavor? Maybe you mentioned it Eric and I missed it but what was the revenues added from those deals in aggregate if you have that and also are these traditional mom and pop type facilities? Can you give us any flavor for what the businesses look like? Sure A.J.
this is Tom and as Eric mentioned there's really forward deals that closes all great businesses.
At the eleven Funeral homes and they generated on a performer basis probably just over $20 million.
And there are family on businesses there in one of them Virginia there's others that are in Texas and the other's on the East coast in Kentucky in New York so we're very-very pleased with again the management teams of the businesses that we acquired and we really look forward to been able to partner with him and generate great returns on these businesses so very excited to get them all in a demographic places where we want to be.
My sense of it in chatting in the fourth quarter with you guys was that there was sort of a push among some of these to get done by year-end but in hearing your comments today it sounds like the pipeline even though the whole capital gain year-end stuff is done there is still a pretty good backlog going into the new year as well? Really appears to be (inaudible) I think it's a different level anybody that was going to get it done and the next six to nine months probably hurry to get it done by the end of the year.
But the pipelines robust there's probably not a lot of activity that's going to close in the first quarter but we're very active in getting out and talking with people and reviewing financial statements of yes we see a robust pipeline as we look forward into 2013 and even into '14.
Again I was trying to write fast.
If I missed something you said on this legal defense number of $6.6 million forgive me.
Can you give us a little more background on that? Is this a new level or was there a run rate of this that you've been incurring that you just haven't been breaking out and now you are breaking it out? Just a little more background on what's going on with that.
Well it's we incurred it in the quarter and it's primarily related to disputed legal defense costs and also some minor legal settlements they're all bundled together.
We have ongoing legal fees and settlements AJ as you know and in particular instance we're dealing with our insurance providers for recovery of legal fees paid we tend to have a deductible and generally once you reach a deductible insurance companies provide coverage for those fees and this is a case where that's not occurring.
I'm hesitant because lawyers are dealing with this and I really don't want to get into the specifics of any case or settlement because again the settlements are confidential to protect the parties and legal counsel's advised us not to disclose specific legal fees incurred on matters so I want to leave it at general I tell you that it's a accumulative number of a number of cases somewhat some are related but no all one case.
But AJ just to add to that what really differentiated this is the fact their dispute we believe they're insurable cost and they're being disputed so we broke it out in what we hope to see in G&amp;A and what we hope to see is a credit come through when we receive payment as we work through this with insurance companies.
So the dispute is not with the lawyers over the amount but the dispute is with the insurance companies as to whether -- Want to make it clear (inaudible) that this would separate this as a dispute with our insurance companies is what we meant to say that we hope will be reimbursed.
Okay.
And then maybe a last one for now.
You made a comment that the flow didn't really -- I think you said didn't really impact too much in the fourth quarter but has had some impact in the first quarter.
I know in previous times where we've had a really robust flu season that there is actually tended to be a little bit of a ripple effect that goes on for a few quarters.
It doesn't sound you're in terms of -- I don't know whether it affects the immune systems of elderly people or what it does but it seems like last time we had a big flu season there was -- it carried over for a couple quarters.
You are not baking anything like that into your guidance doesn't sound like.
Any comment about previous experiences? Yes (inaudible) first of all I’ll defer to you the expert on flu so I would ask you the question but I’ll tell you we did see solid results in the fourth quarter on a comfortable growth basis.
We don’t believe there is much of an impact of flu at all we definitely are seeing a flu impact in January results and you’re right I think again there has been different trends of history (inaudible) and all worse thing is from our modeling perspective we’re not going to get out of ahead of ourselves we’re going to maintain what we thought and again 	there could be some (inaudible) of course but we do think that while you may see a robust first quarter you could begin to see that taking case volume at a Q2 and Q3 and Q4 so that’s the way we’re looking at now but we’re not in the predication business or so.
Thank you and our next question comes from Clint Fendley from Davenport.
Please go ahead.
First question on the preneed cemetery another quarter here of very impressive result and I’m just wondering how much of this reflects the possibly a change in your sales efforts versus just very possibly strong demographic trends that you’ll be getting to sell into and like to maybe a just get a better understanding of how sustainable these results might be over a longer period of time.
What you’ve seen in the last few years again in 2011 we grew preneed cemetery about 10% 12 in 2012 we’re modeling you guys to high single digits because again as the base gets bigger it just gets harder and harder but I will tell you this I do believe that the demographic impact is having an influence.
As we’ve mentioned before I believe the average preneed cemetery sales customer is 62 to 63 years old.
We know there's more and more of those folks every day because the baby boomers now is at the top of the range is going to be 67 this year.
So larger pool of people to sell to it's clearly having an impact.
I also would have to say and give credit to our sales and operations leadership and what they've been able to accomplish in developing sales managers and developing sales folks and generating leads.
But lastly also I think which you saw the push in the fourth quarter and I think there is a little more impetus here.
And that is if you remember in the third quarter we finished a lot of big projects.
Remember the call we recognize in revenue related to projects that have been constructive.
It’s my opinion that when you've got constructed inventory that people can see they're more excited about it you're getting more people out there to see the property itself.
And so a lot of time when you see these kind of surge in construction you'll get a little bit of wind at your back as it relates to generating sales growth.
So it's hard to bifurcate how much is what but say all three of those things are factored in the why it's growing and it's our belief that we can continue to grow it for all those reasons.
It's just gets harder because as the amount gets bigger it's harder to move it.
I wonder also just switching over to Neptune.
I wander if you had possibly a general update there.
How you're feeling about that business as we look forward to the coming year?  Yes as I mentioned before when we first partnered with Neptune prior little bit of growing pains coming out of the gate.
So I'll tell you over the last few quarters we've been very excited with the performance and one of the things that I think was difficult out of the gate is we're growing faster than we thought.
We're opening new offices and when you open new offices there is going to be challenges in transition and opening up and getting effectiveness on the ground.
We’re seeing that effectiveness in the new offices and we're ahead of pro forma as it relates to getting out there.
And I am also pleased because of the way that we've been able to continue to grow it.
We anticipate in 2013 that we'll probably open another additional eight offices in new cities and so the momentum is solid and exciting as we think about Neptune.
Last question here I understand your comments earlier on just the volumes and not wanting to get ahead of yourselves.
Just wondered if you had an expectation of the strong volumes that you've seen in January would likely carry over to February in to February or do you think all we've really seen is maybe just an earlier than usual flu season here.
Well I think it's more severe no doubt about it but I do think we saw if you track the flu index it's beginning to trickle back down as you get into early February but I think it's too early to tell.
So it's still probably having an impact but surely not the impact we saw in January.
It was about as big an impact as I've ever seen in my business career.
And our next question comes from Bob Willoughby from Bank of America please go ahead.
Hey Tom or Eric you've touched on a lot of the positives on the fourth quarter a lot of trends that went your way I guess the guidance boost a couple of pennies on the high end of the range the driver there it's not the debt rate it doesn't seem like you have much in share repurchases in the numbers is it simply just an administrative expense line item or the debt refinance (inaudible) that's getting us to that higher range have you assumed any more aggressive assumption elsewhere? No I think the big driver is cemetery production at the end of the day Bob we had such a good fourth quarter and so now you go back and say can we grow at the same percentage rate as we thought we were before and we're saying yes and now you're growing off that bigger base and that's really what's the trajectory that's taken the number up.
Other than that I think everything's pretty much what we thought it was.
Eric would you.
I would agree I mean you're basically taking the $0.02 that we exceeded our internal expectations during the quarter and pushing it through into the guidance as Tom's been saying you can grow off of that then and then holding the cash flow neutral with the guidance we gave because of the working capital movement towards installment sales that we’ve been talking about.
So same relationship really as we talked to you about in October Bob.
And you said that in 216 million shares outstanding this year that reflects really no activity from the fourth quarter close is that right? 211 million shares outstanding Bob 216 is the diluted number that we were modeling with and answer to your question is yes because what I said in the remarks was that we used our cash balance to go ahead and do the acquisitions during the month of December and so we're in January we've been building that cash balance back up is the way I would say it.
But once we get up there then it would be the standard strategy that described the four what you'd say acquisitions to grow the company at the appropriate returns and share repurchases will be in that mix consistent with our track record.
Okay and you referenced to $65 million deal spend the flurry of activity in fourth quarter.
Is that a reasonable expectation for the year another 65 million or would it be somewhat down from that based on the higher fourth quarter.
I’d say it’s reasonable but I mean it’s really just depend it’s hard to predict when they come in the size of what comes but I’d say that’s within the realm our expectation.
(Operator Instructions).
And our next question comes from Duncan Brown from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
I guess you’re talking about more preneed cemetery being done on installment basis; I guess some of the cash is still to come.
How do you all think about the risk of customers not paying future installments? Is there any sort of metric that you can provide what percentages don’t pay the full amount after you’re already signed the contract?  We look at the cancelation reserve and that’s a great point Duncan because I want to make the point very clear that we look at the quality of the sales when you see a mix shift towards installment and we’re very clearly continuing to see good quality sales and what you ultimately look for is a cancellation rate or a change in your cancellation rate and we’ve looked at that during 2012 as we’ve seen this shift and we have not seen a deterioration in that cancellation rate which is greatness and that’s why again we continue to drive community service sales the way we’re doing profitable as they are.
And Duncan just I think with that the part of your question we’ve seen you know paid in full type contract go and I’m estimating here but let’s say 40% of our contracts a few year ago were paid all upfront now that’s shifting down into 30s and may high 20s so more people financing over longer term we’re seeing people shift from three and four paper into fiver paper and a lot of that’s a function of the consumer.
As we’re growing think about the cemetery in the radius around it you're beginning to sell the people that are further and further away and Eric referred to community service think about that as outside sales versus inside sales.
So as you're getting to people that what we are really thinking about cemetery property but now I think it’s a good idea to more likely to finance.
And Eric is right we’re looking at this.
We’re very cognizant of collectability but compared to other industries think about it if you don’t pay the cemetery property it's not too hard to repossess we're sitting right there.
It's not a car we got to send somebody to get.
So I think from a risk perspective we feel very comfortable about where we're ahead what we're doing and the cash will follow.
So for that that you do cancel let`s say they cancel your three are there any back payments that you would owe them from your one and two or is it just a straight cancellation?  In the property area that we're describing it will be a straight cancellation.
When you get into merchandize and service now you're getting Duncan into trusting roles and its by state and such so get a little bit more complex but the answer to what we've been talking about was preneed cemetery property so the answer is it would just be a straight cancellation.
Highlighted to sort of onetime items the 4 million and the 6.6 related to legal cost and I know you can't talk in too much detail on the legal front but I guess how should we think about those items in 2013 I mean are those unique to Q4.
I know you had a little bit on the outsource provider and accounting in Q3.
Is that primarily behind us or what should we think about those one times? The vision cost related to the movement of the accounting providers as well as the payable and purchase order system are for the most part vastly behind us.
In terms of legal fees we'll always be the size of our company have legal fees going forward.
This again was a little bit unusual In terms of the way we're disputing it with related to insurance companies.
And I think the way to think about the legal fees like Eric said there is some possibility we're going to get reimbursed fees.
And the other way to think about as we think about little cost to defend some of these cases that are bring segregated out.
I think the trend would say it's not going to be as much as you saw this year.
Last quarter I think you had asked about the possibilities of looking at it on a nontraditional reed like you said you were forming your opinion and obviously looking for anything for shareholder value.
Can you provide any update on that front for us? What we concluded is we would have to spilt the company in two companies.
We'll have to do a property company and an operating company.
It would be a complex transaction potentially taxable potentially not taxable just depends on how you could pull it off.
But ultimately we think the value is there today with the company that we have specifically the interactions on our combination facilities which is 57% of our cemeteries or that like have a funeral home on top of it and they're tremendous synergies for us and tremendous one stop shopping synergies that the customer has as well and we also have as all know an organic play coming down the road whether that's five years ten years or whatever you think it is in terms of growth from the baby boomer generation effecting this industry and of course you have further consolidation in this industry as we've proven to you in the fourth quarter and we'll continue through acquisitions.
So just lot of things that are going our way right now which in our opinion outweigh the fact that we believe and our advisors believe our experts believe that we'd have to split the company in two to transition over to the restructure.
Not saying never but not in the near future is the way I describe it.
I will now turn the call back to SCI management for closing remarks.
Thank you again everyone for being on the call today we look forward to talking to you in April with our first quarter results have great day.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference thank you for participating you may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q1 2013 Service Corporation International Earnings Conference Call.
My name is John and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the call over to SCI management.
Please go ahead.
Hi and good morning.
This is Debbie Young Director of Investor Relations for SCI thanks for joining us today as we discuss our first quarter 2013 results.
Before we begin let me remind you that the comments that will be made by our management today will include statements that are not historical and are forward-looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections.
These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those factors identified in our press release and in our filings of the SEC that are available on our website.
Today's comment may also include certain non-GAAP measurements such as normalized EPS adjusted operating cash flow and free cash flow.
Reconciliations of these measurements to be appropriate measures calculated in accordance with GAAP is provided on our website and in our press release and 8-K that was filed yesterday.
With that other way I would like to now turn the call over to Mr.
Tom Ryan SCI's President and CEO.
Thanks Debbie and good morning everyone thanks for joining us today.
As you saw in our press release yesterday we announced a truly outstanding first quarter.
We saw success across the board in funeral and cemetery  operations preneed funeral and cemetery sales significant growth from Neptune and on top of all that the financial markets performed well.
It's not often you have so many things go your away so I would like to thank the entire SCI organization for both their historical and most recent efforts and allowing us to obtain these results.
By the way let's keep it coming.
Broadly speaking our first quarter performance highlight the operating leverage we have in our business model as we produced a 40% increase in normalized earnings per share on about an 8% increase in revenues.
We executed well on our strategies and we're well positioned to respond to the demand created by the strong flu season that occurred during the early part of the quarter.
Normalized earnings per share in the first quarter grew by $0.08 to $0.28 which is ahead of our internal expectation we had set in February based upon January volume.
Now the breakdown of our earnings per share growth for you.
Operations contributed about $0.09 of growth over the prior year quarter.
Funeral operations produced about 6 of those cents led by the increase in funeral volume funeral sales average growth and a more than 30% increase in Neptune revenues added almost a penny of this $0.06.
The remaining $0.03 came from strong cemetery preneed sales performance and higher cemetery trust fund income.
We also benefited by about a penny from a lower share count offsetting this $0.10 improvement I just discussed was about $0.02 of higher G&amp;A expenses related to long-term total shareholder return based compensation and an unfavorable foreign currency impact from intercompany Canadian notes.
Now shifting to an overview of the Funeral segment.
Comparable revenues increased about $30.4 million or 7.2% this was ahead of our expectations generating gross profits and margin percentages higher than we had anticipated.
Let's talk a little bit about the key drivers.
Same store funeral volume grew an impressive 4.3% for the quarter as most of you know we experienced a strong flu season earlier this year resulting in flu related deaths above normal levels for nearly the entire quarter starting out very strong in January and tapering off somewhat in March.
While this growth is impressive it is generally in line with what we had modeled and told you about in our mid quarter call in February.
We're still modeling volume for the year to be down in the low single digit percentage range until we have more than 3 months of data.
Complementing the volume growth we also saw an increase in the average sale of 1.6%.
Isolating the currency and trust fund impacts the average grew 1.1%.
This was accomplished despite a 60 basis point increase in a mix of cremation.
You may have also observed that our sales average dollars are lower than what we have historically reported in both quarterly periods presented for our comparable operations in the press release.
This is a result of including Neptune cremation fulfillments in our same store results for the first time which carries a significantly lower average.
General agency revenue in the quarter increased $1.7 million on increased preneed insurance funded production which helps the cash flow but generally is offset by selling expense for reporting GAAP margins.
Lastly you might have noticed a new category of revenues in our press release called funeral recognized preneed revenues.
This primarily represents preneed sales of Neptune that are delivered at the time of sale.
Examples will include a keepsake or memorial kit or travel protection insurance.
We previously included these revenues in our other revenue category.
In the quarter these sales grew by $4.3 million to about $18 million.
Keep in mind the cremation service component of the preneed sale is deferred and recognized at the time of need as funeral case volume and is included in the funeral sales average at that time.
We are very excited about Neptune's performance and expect to see continued growth and value creation.
Therefore on the funeral revenue increase of about $30 million and you boil it all down we grew comparable funeral profits nearly $18 million and the margins increased 230 basis points during the quarter.
So from an operating leverage perspective the incremental revenue produced a 59% gross margin which approximates our lower 60% expectation.
On a preneed basis we grew preneed funeral sales by 5.2% in the quarter of which Neptune was a key driver with a 20% increase in contract count and a 7.6 increase in sales average.
Now for an overview of cemetery operations comparable cemetery revenue increased $12.4 million or 7% for the quarter.
This increase was primarily due to impressive preneed sales production growth or 6.7% in the quarter particularly against a high hurdle rate set in a prior year quarter and we were up some 14%.
The revenues and profits were also positively impacted by $2.7 million increase in cemetery trust fund income.
Comparable cemetery profits grew $12.5 million as well for the quarter and margins increased 560 basis points to 21%.
As a reminder last year's margin of 15.4% was unusually low as we discussed at that time due to $10 million of sales revenues that were deferred due to construction and delivery constraints where we had incurred the selling expense in the quarter.
So this quarter's margins are more normalized for what you would expect this level of production to produce in the 20% to 21% range.
With the first quarter behind us we remain confident in our earnings per share and cash flow target and we believe we'll be in the upper range of annual 2013 guidance communicated to you back in February.
While we benefited from increased funeral volume in the first quarter due to the flu season we're hesitant to put this in the [bank] [ph] as incremental to the year.
In our experience many of these flu related deaths are acceleration of deaths that was otherwise occurred later in the year.
Now we're entering into our 51st year of being in business in SCI.
And I'm very very proud to be a part of this organization working right alongside of the man who created it Bob Waltrip.
And to help celebrate the more than 50 years of delivering high quality and passionate service to families who turned to as it their most difficult time.
With that note I'll turn the call over Eric.
Good morning everybody and thanks for joining us.
This morning I am going to walk you through the details of our cash flow for the quarter and then I am going to provide some color and our thoughts about capital deployments.
So let's start with cash flow and as you saw in the yesterday's press release adjusted operating cash flow in the quarter was very strong and grew $58 million over the prior year to $154 million exceeding our expectations.
Cash flow growth during the quarter was predominately driven by higher cash receipts from improved operating performance that Tom just mentioned as well as improved working capital.
Let me give you a little bit color on this.
First our cash receipts were higher due to the strong December and January funeral case volume activity and which the corresponding cash was received predominately during this quarter.
Secondly not only where our pretty sales production levels up from last year but we also experienced an improvement in preneed cash collections.
This is primarily result of higher down payments and an increase in cash collections related to the installing sales sold in prior years.
And lastly as that I've described in prior calls we implemented a new accounts payable system in late 2012.
That cause significant variability in our cash payments to vendors end of third and fourth quarters of last year.
We completed this implementation during this quarter as a result though we experienced to returns to more normalize levels of cash payments to vendors that resulted in a onetime benefit to working capital this quarter.
Now maintenance CapEx and cemetery development CapEx and remember those are the two components that we consider our current recurring CapEx those items for the quarter came in at $21 million which was in line with our expectations.
When you deduct this recurring capital spending items from our adjusted cash flow come out we calculate our free cash flow for the quarter to be $133 million.
Now let's talk about our cash flow for the remainder of 2013.
Our outlook for full year cash flow from operations of $375 million to $425 million remains unchanged.
Although we now believe we'll gain the upper hand of this range as a result of our strong first quarter operating results.
Now few comments on our assumptions for this outlook.
First remember that our first quarter cash flow is seasonally high due to cash interest payments that primarily occur in the second and fourth quarters.
During this quarter we only pay $2.5 million in cash interest we expect to pay about $59 million in the second quarter and about $63 million thereafter in 2013.
Secondly to reiterate what Tom said we believe our funeral volume for the remainder of the year will return to more normalized levels.
For the full year 2013 we are still modeling funeral volumes be down in the low single digit percentage range.
Also the working capital benefit I just mentioned from accounts payable just one time in nature and it is not expected to continue throughout the remainder of 2013.
Lastly we now believe there are cash taxes will trend to the upper end of our guidance range previously communicated of $35 million to $45 million of cash taxes.
This as a result of our earning currently trending higher.
And again we continue to be proud that our cash flow guidance of 2013 implies significant growth over 2012 despite this approximate $25 million headwind of increasing cash taxes.
Now let's talk about the deployment of this free cash flow in the quarter and as I have discussed in our February conference call and as seen today our financial statements we have been rebuilding our cash balance during the first quarter following the acquisition spend of the about $50 million late in December 2012.
Once we reached our targeted cash level during the quarter we had entered into a quite period which generally prevented us from any share repurchase activity.
Therefore we did not repurchase any shares in the open market during the first quarter.
However we still have approximate $190 million as share repurchase authorization remaining today.
We did not have any acquisition activity that closed during our first quarter which again expected following the very busy fourth quarter acquisition activity as just I mentioned.
Remember last year most of our activity occurred in the back half of the year.
However we did just close on a small acquisition in April and we have another small acquisition under contract and expected to close sometime in the second quarter.
Lastly additional 10% of Neptune during the quarter for $8.3 million this cash deployment is reflected in financing activities on our cash flow statement and brings our total ownership percentage of Neptune to 80%.
Same conclusion we are obviously off to great start in 2013.
We're to continue our long history of strong free cash flow generation despite a variety of economic and other challenges.
This robust cash flow coupled with the strength of our balance sheet continues to provide us with a tremendous amount of financial flexibility.
To continue to deploy our capital to increase shareholder value.
And as always we will continue to look best uses of deploying our free cash flow.
This includes reinvesting in our core strategies which primarily related to continuing to build our preneed backlog we believe this is a highest return low-risk strategy.
Secondly investing in strategic acquisitions as the appropriate returns.
Third returning value to shareholders through share repurchases.
As well as a strategy of increasing our cash dividend over time.
And lastly managing our debt-liquidity profile by managing cash levels.
Credit facility availability and near term debt maturities this in order to maximize our financial flexibility.
So we appreciate to joining us this morning and now operator we'll ahead and open it up for investor questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Robert Willoughby from Banc of America.
Please go ahead.
Good Morning Tom and Eric I am glad to see you are able to eke out some upside here in the quarter.
Obviously the flu season volumes won't continue here but is there any experience I mean can you speak to maybe what you are able to pick up subsequent to that from a preneed standpoint a preneed sales standpoint.
Do you leverage those experiences in Q1 for some successes over the year on preneed side? Yeah I think Bob there's definitely some impact from that you know because I think traffic is the lead source for preneed as you're pointing out.
So we were very excited about the preneed production even in the first quarter.
I think it was higher than we anticipated when you think about a comparable year-over-year.
So we feel pretty good about again even though on the funeral side even we don't talk about it as much because of its deferral that our momentum on the preneed funeral and both the preneed cemetery is very good as we enter the back half of the year.
And like we said we can't predict to you what's going to happen with that there's some if we clearly are taking the position that we're going to get back a lot of the volume that may or may not happen and to what extent we don't know.
But at this point with three months a year behind us I think we’re better suited let's see what happens April May and June and we'll be in a better position to know that half way through the year.
Okay.
And maybe on that front I mean we do -- would expect to drop off sequentially from an earnings standpoint in absolute terms any comment that you can make whatsoever on April to date just to help us understand the magnitude of the drop off as the death rate really come crashing back down; has there been any repurchases to date I guess that's not possible as yet but other pros and cons on the quarter itself? Yeah I mean I think what I tell you in April again it’s preliminary we get daily data but we haven’t closed it out that generally you know April's okay I mean it's not that the levels of the first quarter we haven't seen some significant deterioration it's pretty good but we still haven't closed it out and I think you mentioned you said repurchase? Yeah I guess you can't do that as yet but…  So we have -- we have not opted to repurchase anything to date.
Okay any comment on capital market's performance et cetera for you in the quarter to date maybe that has slowed a bit as well.
Yes it has you saw mid single-digit growth rate in the first quarter Bob and yeah it’s going to move to the market and what we are modeling is more or like April I mean slowdown performance.
We're still at our annual guidance which is kind of a lower to maybe the middle single-digit percentage range in terms of the increase and the trust fund portfolio.
That's great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from John Ransom from Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
A couple of things you guys have done great -- put up great numbers despite you know negative volume trends.
Has there been any change you think in your volume performance relative to the industry have you kind of bottomed through the cycle of running off of bottom 20% of market that you don’t want are you starting to get more market share because of Neptune or the cycle running through it thanks? Yeah I think I'll answer that in a couple of different ways.
I do believe that the Neptune opportunity and strategy is one that when you take into account overall market share is going to help us because we believe that is a growing market it's a market we haven't participated in before and we believe Neptune is the most effective at participating in that market mainly because of the preneed strategy they have deployed -- so that part of the bucket I'd say we're gaining share.
I think the best way to gain share and I'm going to [not] [ph] correlate it back to SCI is the preneed and so I would tell you today because of our recent efforts over the last three particularly the last three to five years that because we've grown preneed in such a significant way that we are sustaining (Inaudible) market share.
Also we do a great job locally I believe and so it is tiny but my personal opinion is we're more effective because of our [efforts] [ph] at preneed at competing for market share.
Okay and then a numbers question if you look at your guidance you are not guiding for any growth in cash flow from ops for the succeeding three quarters if you take the first quarter into account is that just conservatism or is it the taxes or is there something else to think about there? A little of both John I mean the one thing the first quarter had the one time working capital source from the accounts payable that I mentioned  Yeah.
For the quarter we paid about $5.5 million of cash taxes and as you heard me say this morning the guidance is $35 million to $45 million but it's going to be at the upper end if the earnings continue to trend at this higher so a lot of that has to do with cash taxes that are coming in in the back half of the year John.
Okay.
And just a usual question about acquisition supply acquisition pricing competition private equity public company competitors any change there? Not really John I think the acquisitions are still out there I wouldn't say there's a big robust pipeline Eric [to touch on] [ph] a couple but at the same time there's activity we feel good about it a lot of relationship building and so we feel confident that we will be able to report more acquisition activity throughout the year.
And I know you're having good luck with Neptune but is the EBITDA comparison at Neptune in 2013 over 2012 is that getting close to being material or is still immaterial at this point?  Well I think again I think if you look at the first quarter '13 to '12 I kind of highlighted in my comments it added almost a penny so Neptune had a fantastic first quarter relative to prior year and so we feel really really good about the direction there and we're really kind of hitting on all cylinders but again--  Is there some spillover in your funeral business that wouldn't be picked up in that penny.
No I think there's a little bit of that because again we're delivering - we're providing some services for them but really small I think the biggest impact from Neptune is what we're going to discuss and it's going to be driven by the fact how much sales production we're going to have in that category of preneed items that we deliver that's going to be what's going -- carry the day and as long as that's growing we're going to see continued growth in profits from Neptune.
Great thanks.
Okay.
Our next question comes from Clint Fendley from Davenport.
Please go ahead.
Thank you good morning guys.
Nice quarter.
I also had a couple of follow up questions on Neptune obviously you guys released a lot more data on them in the quarter how many locations do you have for Neptune currently?  I believe now I don't have the -- in 2012 we opened nine new locations we're going to open another 6 to 8 this year.
So I think by the end of this year we're approaching I think today we're sitting at 36 it may not be the exact number but close to that so you look at it heading towards mid 40s to 50 locations maybe by the end of this year.
Okay.
Any idea I mean I think at the time if my notes are right that the backlog for Neptune was about $125 million I mean is that so that's still for I guess from what you've been saying pretty robust growth in contributor to your backlog then?  Yeah I think remember Clint this is a little that's why we're trying to give you more data because it's a little trickier than our traditional funeral business Neptune sales think of Neptune as two different things one is they're selling a service the cremation service where and that is all triggered by death.
So we're going to perform the cremation service later that goes into backlog that give sold most of time concurrently with the fact that we're selling a keepsake and that we're selling insurance to that consumer and those few components are going to get recognized at the time of sale because we're delivering the merchandise in that category.
So you get profits and cash upfront from a merchandise fees and the service fees goes into the backlog and gets delivered just like every other [funeral].
So when we talk about generating profits the bigger piece now is going to be selling that keepsake hard and selling that travel protection to the consumer and in the meantime later when we deliver we're going to recognize more profits when we deliver that service but that gets deferred into the backlog that you're referring and that's what's going to go into be funded by the insurance contract and the likes.
And is it - do you guys still have the same management team there that you did when you bought it back in I guess the summer of 2011?  We do we have the same leader we've had slight changes in some of the other categories we've added some talent there as well but our leader is the same one and we're very very pleased to have him.
Okay.
And last question I wondered just switching to the cemetery for a minute any idea what the cemetery margins would advantage excluded the benefit of that $1.9 million for the property insurance claims did that drop right through to the bottom-line.
Yeah.
Think of it it's normalized margins would be around 20% you know maybe just above 20%.
So that's -- there's another problem of trying to go from last year's quarter to this quarter remember last year's quarter I think we're a pretty  elaborate in describing this we had a bunch of sales production a lot of which guys have heard for unusual reasons and if you remember we incurred the selling costs no matter whether recognize or not.
So the 15 to 21 jump was a lot to do with lower margins in last year's [quarter] to explain but you're exactly right 21 would be closer to 20 it took out that reimbursement.
Okay.
Thanks guys and nice quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Chris Rigg from Susquehanna Financial.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and I apologize if I missed this.
But could you give us monthly what the quarterly -- monthly volume progression was in the quarter so January year-to-year February year-to-year et-cetera?  You know Chris I don't have that right in front of me but I'd tell you from a monthly basis you know January was very robust you know kind of surprisingly and I think that's why we anticipated what we did in the first quarter and it kind of tapered off and we're still positive in February but it's still kind of impressive and then the last -- by March it was back to kind of flat to slightly down.
Okay.
And then I was also hoping you could help us better understand sort of the core pricing in the funeral business I know you sort of normalized it for Neptune but on an aggregate basis it seems like it's down a little bit in the quarter.
I'm just trying to get a sense for how should we should think about that I noticed the cremation impacting that et cetera but sort of where -- what's the core inflation in the pricing right now? I think what we're experiencing remember our average price is going to be impacted by mix but what you right with pointing out.
So when you strip out you know [cleaning] currency impact and (Inaudible) impact we're up 1.1% if you break that let's say take away the mix change I think what you'd see is both on the cremation and burial side that we're getting somewhere approaching 2% type of growth.
And again I don't have those in front of me but it's just to give you an idea some of that is our pricing some of that is discounting and some of that's impacted by whether people are buying packages or not.
So I think where we sit today today where we sit today we're getting inflationary pricing and about where we thought it would be.
Okay.
And then lastly just I know it's next year but can you remind us how you think cash taxes will change in over the next 12 months or so.
Well.
Over this period it's 2013 it's the guidance of $35 million  to $45 million I just said as our earnings are trending upward we're probably at the upper end of that Chris that compares to $17 million that was paid and in the prior year.
And you're talking about beyond '13 I guess.
Yeah guess I was just trying to figure out -- I know you're not you don't want to give guidance for next year but just some sense for how we should think about cash taxes.
Well.
As I told you as I've mentioned before for the most part most of our NOLs are going to run out in 2013 we still have some NOLs there such as example (Inaudible) NOLs are still there and you can only use a certain amount of those due to the acquisition per year.
So some of those will always kind of be out there for next two years.
But predominance of it is we're going towards becoming a full cash tax payer in 2014.
And you still have some timing differences and such and you have some tax planning opportunities.
So as I've said it doesn't mean that your cash debt -- your expected cash tax rate if you will is going to approach the 37% to 38% provision it's on the income statement.
I think it's more going to get in there into the low 30% type range in the low 30s ultimately when we absolutely in 2014 become a full cash tax payer.
Now if we figure our more tax planning opportunities to defer that we will.
We've obviously done that the last couple of years but that's probably the best outlook I can give you right now Chris.
No.
But that's great color.
Thanks so much.
You're welcome.
Our next question comes from A.J.
Rice from UBS.
Please go ahead.
This is [Brandon Fraser] for A.J.
I was wonder if you can just update us on the new vendor management system you mentioned beyond and beyond those sort of one time catch-up on the accounts payable that you mentioned.
Is there some additional upside there longer term as we have this now kind of fully implemented? Yes it was fully implemented this quarter there was a one-time and a kind of normalization of cash vendor payments because simply the third and fourth quarter were just rocky during the implementation.
When we first introduced this system and talked about it openly on the previous calls we talked about what the benefited is that it's given us visibility on the spend that's out in the field locations that we really couldn't efficiently and very effectively get to in terms of that visibility.
So those synergies are associated with this and I would characterize those as if you allow me the sports analogy very early innings of that visibility in terms of capturing those synergies and I do think you'll see some of that coming in 13 and probably some of that comes to 14 as well.
Okay and on the teen age side during last quarter there was couple unusual items that were in there that kind of closer to spike up a bit was there anything unusual in this quarter? No I think only thing that really that was is that we have a long-term compensation plan with key individuals that is tied to total shareholder return and when our share price moves up versus that pool of other companies that it's compared to you're going to see higher compensation and I think that was about $2 million to $3 million during the quarter and I think we mentioned that as well.
But that's really the only thing that I would say you now it was anything out of the ordinary during this quarter.
Okay thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And with the question from Duncan Brown from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning just two from me in the past you've talked a little bit about the reception events initiative and given some steps on penetration that help us sort of seize the opportunity going forward can you maybe provide an update on where you stand there? Yeah I think again we talk a lot more about it when it was new and rolling out and that become a more of maturing initiative and became part of the - core of what we do.
So it's continuing to grow I would tell you that from a spend perspective we're very very pleased it's actually done better than what we have always anticipated I'd say from a margin perception and say from a customer satisfaction perspective and the one thing we struggled a little bit with is the penetration rate it kind gets back to everything the people that have adopted it have done a tremendous job and take it to the next level and then it's getting people to be comfortable with offering these options making sure we get the vendors there.
So we still think there's upside in getting more penetration through more locations but that's going well ahead of plan and we'll continue to see some growth but again year-over-year that's not going to drive a lot of enhanced profits from an external perspective that you've got with it.
Okay that's fair and then just a numbers question can you tell me how much is out on the revolver please?  About just under $90 million Duncan.
Thank you guys.
I will now turn the call back over to the SCI management for closing remarks.
We want to thank everybody for participating with us today and we look forward to speaking to you again in July.
Thanks everyone.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference thank you for participating you may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Second Quarter 2013 Service Corporation International Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Chris and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to SCI management.
You may begin.
Good morning.
This is Debbie Young Director of Investor Relations at SCI.
Thanks for joining us today as we discuss our second quarter results.
Before I turn the call over to Tom let me remind you that comments made by our management today will include statements that are not historical and are forward-looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections.
These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those factors identified in our press release and in our filings with the SEC that are available on our website.
Today’s comments may also include certain non-GAAP measurements such as normalized EPS adjusted operating cash flow and free cash flow.
Reconciliations of these measurements to be appropriate measures calculated in accordance with GAAP is provided on our website and in our press release and 8-K that were filed yesterday.
With that out of the way I would like to now turn the call over to Tom Ryan SCI’s President and CEO.
Thanks Debbie and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
We’re pleased to report our second quarter earnings and cash flow results that exceeded our internal expectations and the prior year quarter.
Normalized earnings per share in the second quarter grew to $0.19 which was a penny ahead of the prior year.
Based on these results for the quarter and for the first half of the year we’re raising our earnings per share and cash flow guidance for 2013.
Before I get into more details about the quarter I wanted to give you a brief update on our Stewart transaction.
But before I do that I want to recognize the fact that we lost one of our great members.
Jim McGilley from Kansas City with 85 years old.
And our thoughts and prayers are with Mark McGilley and his family today.
Jim joined us in 1987.
He was truly an inspiration to us all and really left his mark on our Kansas City marketplace and team.
He will be missed.
Now back to Stewart.
As you know in late May we announced our expected acquisition of Stewart Enterprises.
In early stages of planning through the integration process are underway and we’ve been pleased with the progress so far.
We remain confident in the value this transaction creates for us including our synergy testament [ph].
The transaction closing is primarily pending two items.
One approval by Stewart’s Class A shareholders for which their shareholder meeting is scheduled for August 13.
And secondly the Federal Trade Commission review which is ongoing.
As noted in our press release last week we did receive an expected second request from the FTC and we still anticipate closing in December of this year or early 2014.
Now for an overview of funeral operations.
Comparable funeral revenues increased nearly $13 million or 3.3%.
This revenue increase was ahead of our expectations primarily on higher anticipated funeral volumes.
The average sale per funeral continue to grow at 2.6% in the quarter isolating the currency and trust fund impact the average grew at 2%.
This was accomplished despite a 160 basis point increase in the mix of cremation which carries a substantially lower average.
Partially offsetting the average growth same-store funeral volumes were down slightly 0.6% from the second quarter which continues to be better than our expectations.
When combined with the large volume increase in the first quarter due to the strong flu season same-store volume year-to-date through the first six months is up 1.9%.
We believe the comparison will get more difficult in the back half of the year particularly in the fourth quarter when we reported volume up 1.5% last year.
We now are expecting our volume for the full year will be down in the low call it 1% range.
Funeral recognized preneed revenues grew by $3 million or 21% to about $17 million in the quarter.
This represents preneed sale of items that are delivered at time of sale primarily earned kits and travel protection insurance.
Lastly on the revenue front general agency revenues grew by $2.4 million on increased insurance funded preneed funeral production.
During the quarter we grew total preneed funeral sales production an impressive 11%.
On a year-to-date basis preneed funeral sales production is up 8%.
Again we would anticipate to caster [ph] preneed funeral sales production to get a little more difficult as we entered the back half of 2013.
With a full year we now anticipate an increase in the mid-single-digit percentage range up from previous guidance of low to mid single-digit range.
On our $13 million revenue increase that we experienced in the quarter we would have expected to grow profits in the $6 million to $7 million range.
However comparable funeral profits declined by $2.5 million and the margins dropped by 130 basis points during the quarter.
This decrease can be attributed to a few specific items.
First as expected in connection with the increase of preneed funeral sales production we saw an increase in preneed selling costs that pressured margins.
Remember the revenues get deferred when we recognize the selling expenses in the period cost now.
This impacted profits some $4.5 million.
Secondly we had an increase in expenses quarter-over-quarter related to workers’ comp claims and higher incident compensation for both field and home office operations.
As it relates to higher workers’ comp claims we do now believe that this is the trend or an issue to be concerned with going forward.
Additionally in our results we’re beginning to see the investments we’re making in our sales force and related support infrastructure to drive future growth in the preneed funeral and cemetery sales production.
This primarily includes additional sales managers sales counselors and recruiters to support preneed sales production.
As a matter of fact as of June 30 our headcount in our sales organization was up 170 people over June of last year.
So we went from about 3 600 in our sales force to about 3 770.
We told you that we’ve been making these investments and we’re pleased with the production increase that we continue to see.
Keep in mind that this investment will be ongoing with the expectation that you will see a corresponding growth in preneed sales production.
We remain confident that the investment we’re making in our sales strategies that are impacting margins today will pay dividends in the future.
We still anticipate funeral markets for the full year to be in the low 20% range.
Now for an overview of cemetery operations.
Comparable cemetery revenue increased $8.7 million or 4.4% in the quarter.
This increase was primarily due to preneed cemetery sales production growth of 5.4% in the quarter which we view is particularly good against the high hurdle rates set in the prior year quarter up at 14%.
Through the first six months of the year total cemetery preneed production was up 6%.
We’re anticipating continued strong results in the second half of the year leading to an increase in the mid to high single-digit percentage range year-on-year as we originally guided you.
During the quarter we also recognized higher trust fund income.
If I do my simple back in the math – back of the napkin math we would have expected about a 60% margin on the incremental operating revenue.
This would equate to somewhere around $6 million of operating profit growth.
However comparable cemetery profits declined a $1 million for the quarter and the margins dropped a 140 basis points.
In the quarter we had higher amount of cemetery property production that was deferred.
If you recall under GAAP accounting rules property revenues are not recognized until the project is constructed and until we receive at least 10% from the customer.
The good news is these revenues will get recognized primarily in the third quarter as we either construct a cemetery property or collect more than 10% of the sales price from the customer.
However we have recognized the associated selling expenses in the current quarter which puts some downward pressure on our margins to the tune of about $2 million this quarter.
Additionally similar to what happened to the funeral segment we had a higher expense associated with increase in workers’ comp claims and additional incident compensation claims.
And as we mentioned earlier we are beginning to experience an increase in selling costs associated with the sales force and the infrastructure investments we’re making in the future.
We still anticipate cemetery margins for the full year also be in the 11% to 20% range.
So in conclusion I want to reiterate that we’re excited about our performance thus far this year.
For the first six months our same store funeral profits were up $15 million and funeral margins have increased 60 basis points.
In the same period cemetery profits have grown to $11 million and margins have improved to 170 basis points.
And finally year-to-date normalized earnings per share have increased $0.10 or 26% of $0.48 for the first six months period of this year.
On the heel of this strong year-to-date performance after exceeding our internal expectations for the first two quarters we’re increasing our full year 2013 guidance or normalized earnings per share to a range of $0.87 to $0.93.
The midpoint of this new range represents a 12.5% increase from 2012 normalized earnings per share.
As we began the second half of the year we feel good about our ability to continue to deliver solid performance in our core business and are excited about 2014 as we expect to realize the benefits of adding the valuable Stewart businesses in town of people to our organization.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Eric.
Thank you.
Good morning to everybody.
To echo Tom’s comments I want to say we’re excited to have exceeded our internal expectations again this quarter.
This morning I am going to walk you through the details of our cash flow for the quarter like I usually do and I’m also going to discuss our 2013 cash flow expectations for the remainder of the year.
Then I’ll provide you an update on the financing for our expected Stewart acquisition.
So let’s start with cash flow this morning.
And as you saw in yesterday’s press release adjusted operating cash flow in the quarter grew $8.6 million over the prior year to $78.2 million.
And this exceeded our internal expectations.
So this growth was predominantly related to the timing of cash receipts associated with preneed sales of cemetery property that were deferred as Tom just explained.
So we expect most of these sales to be recognized into revenue during the third quarter of this year.
Additionally we had better collections this quarter which was primarily driven by the hard work of our field folks but created a decrease in our days sales outstanding.
This was somewhat offset by the timing of cash outflows related to vendor payments but this was in line with our expectations.
Maintenance CapEx and cemetery development CapEx and again these are the two components that we consider are recurring CapEx.
For the quarter it came in at approximately $26 million and this was also in line with our expectations.
So when you do the math and deduct in these recurring capital spending items from our adjusted cash flow we calculate our free cash flow for the second quarter to be $53 million which is approximately $11 million higher than the prior year and above our internal expectation.
So mid-year through 2013 our adjusted cash flow from operations has grown $67 million or about 40% to $232 million which is slightly higher to where we expected to be mid-year.
Based on this strong mid-year results we feel comfortable raising our 2013 guidance for adjusted cash flow from operations to a new range of $410 million to $435 million for the full year of 2013.
This increase primarily correlates with our increase in normalized earning guidance that Tom just mentioned.
But it also takes into account that we now believe our cash tax payments will be around $30 million for the full year of 2013.
This is slightly lower than what we have communicated in the past due to further refinement of our ongoing tax planning initiatives positively affecting our cash taxes for 2013.
Our new guidance range for adjusted cash flow from operations at the midpoint equates to 11% increase over 2012.
And at today’s trading levels it represents about an 8% free cash flow yield.
So let’s talk about deployment of these great free cash flow results.
And as you might expect in light of our potential Stewart acquisition our cash flow deployments during the quarter was limited.
We did make two funeral home acquisitions (inaudible) total investment of about $3.6 million.
And aside from that we’ve generally been building our cash balance in anticipation of the Stewart acquisition.
Our cash balance at June 30 as you saw in press release grew to just over $220 million.
Subsequent to the end of the quarter we did pay off the balance on our existing bank credit facility of roughly $87 million.
So I would characterize our current cash balance is now somewhere around $150 million.
For the remainder of the year look for us to continue to build cash with the Stewart acquisition and for other possible tuck-in acquisitions that you saw this quarter as well as we will pay our regular cash dividends.
Then lastly as I said I want to talk about the financings for the Stewart acquisition.
You saw a lot of press releases earlier this month and this financing is largely now in place.
In early July we completed our offering of $425 million of 5.375% senior notes and the proceeds were deposited into escrow.
We did this because we wanted to take advantage of the historically low interest environment at this time and we decided after lengthy analysis to lock in the rate now versus closer to the closing date.
I also want to point out to you that we expect to incur approximately $12 million of interest expense in the latter half of 2013 related to the bond and escrow that I just mentioned but there will be no cash interest paid until January of 2014.
So until the Stewart transaction closes the associated earnings impact of this incremental interest expense is currently not included in our new earnings guidance range.
Also in July – early July we completed a new $1.1 billion credit agreement which now matures in 2018.
This new bank credit facility consists of a $600 million term loan and a new $500 million revolving credit facility which replaces the previous credit facility.
So in total the blended interest rate on the acquisition incremental debt is expected to be around 4%.
This consists of the newly issues senior notes our anticipated term loan and revolver of drawings along with Stewart’s 6.5% $200 million senior notes.
We expect this to add annually about cash interest of about $55 million upon completion where there are actual drawings of the new note – of the revolver and the term loan.
So lastly to reiterate what Tom mentioned earlier we are gaining traction related to the planning processes related to the Stewart acquisition.
We believe we’re right on track with where we need to be at this stage of the process and we continue to expect a closing in late this year or early in 2014.
So we appreciate you joining us this morning.
And operator we’ll now open it up for your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from A.J.
Rice.
A.J.
your line is open.
Thanks.
Hi everybody.
A couple of questions if I could ask.
The first one is just to clarify what you were just going over there Eric.
The $55 million does that include the Stewart debt or does that not include that? That does include that because we anticipate absorbing those notes and reading them outstanding for a period of time.
Right okay.
Obviously the one thing operationally jumped off this quarter was the pickup particularly in the preneed funeral sales production of 11%.
It’s one of the best numbers you’ve had in quite a while.
Is that the underlying brisk [ph] activity of customers that’s driving that or is that – I know you have some mobility to drive that by just directing resources and incentives and so forth.
Can you just give us a flavor for what’s behind that and is that with the investment in the news – the incremental sales people is that sort of the new – do you think the new novel is going to be something closer to higher single digits low double digits on the funeral side for a while? A.J.
this is Tom.
And yes we’re very very pleased with the funeral production as you mentioned.
I would tell you that the investments in the sales infrastructure and people really hasn’t begun to pay off yet.
As you well remember when we talked about this we’ve seen growth over the last three or four years predominantly from increased production amongst productivity within our sales force.
Our counselors are getting better our managers are getting better.
And this was really an attempt to say let’s begin to bring more people under the tent and grow this against the aging demographic that we could sell to.
So we really haven’t experienced that yet.
I would chop this up to again just great performance by our sales organization.
We’re more effective at following up our leads from what we can tell.
And that’s what it’s resulted in.
We’re guiding in the mid to high single digits I think that’s what I’d expect over kind of longer periods of time.
You may have a quarter where you jump up and grab low double digits like we did here.
But a lot of that’s going to be a function of which quarter you compare it back to.
So that’s the way I think about it is kind of mid to high single digits.
We believe we can do that over longer periods of time.
Okay.
And then maybe just to talk for a minute about Neptune and the cremation rate overall.
First of all on the 160 basis points year-on-year jump in cremation rate.
Is that include the Neptune – is that being impacted by what’s going on in the Neptune.
And in Neptune specifically seems like you are seeing very good growth there 22% revenue growth 10% revenue for contract.
Any interest things to call out there? Yes I think first of all Neptune is in both numbers so you’re seeing that in the cremation rate.
And so because it’s now comparable you notice that our cremation rates kind of went up for both periods over the last couple of quarters because it includes Neptune.
Okay.
160 points again we think it’s kind of over three months you got to look at anomaly if you look at it over a year it could be bigger and we’ve had some quarters that are almost flat.
So I don’t think we read much into that.
With regard to Neptune and success we’re very very pleased.
It’s a function of better performance at the operations.
We’ve also opened new offices.
We opened six new offices this year and in the second half of years we’ve got another two that are coming online.
And at that time point it will be at 59 locations.
We believe we’re on pace for probably close to 60 000 preneed sales contracts in 2013.
So very very excited about that and I’d tell you again this is one of those that when you talk about two great companies come together you learn from one another.
And this is a perfect example.
And one of the things that’s happened with Neptune is that we took our NCS businesses and put them under Neptune’s management.
And in doing so we learnt from them a bit about preneed marketing.
We weren’t selling travel protection plans at the same velocity as they were.
And so with those and all the NCS businesses Neptune taught us how to sell travel protection and that’s increased the average sale as it relates to those NCS businesses.
From the flip side we’ve added to management talent to Neptune by bringing somebody in that’s SCI and that person was responsible in getting the team together and looking at the way Neptune’s felt.
We sell in the homes as you can imagine discounting was one of the techniques that we utilized quite a bit.
And I think our recognition that hey we can sell more of a value and less about the discount.
And what we’ve seen is that discount coming down overtime which resulted in a higher average sale because of the quality of what we’re selling.
So both sides have probably come together under market as leadership and we’ve seen again average revenue growth approaches 10% like you recommend.
Okay all right.
Great thanks Tom.
Our next question comes from Chris Rigg.
Chris your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just wanted to come back to the selling cost commentary to make sure I fully understand the message.
Clearly your on-boarding new representatives but is this sort of the same store or same representative cost going up as well.
Are you paying the people more for the same service than you were in last quarter or last year? Okay.
The way to think about it Chris – it’s a great question.
The answer really is no the short answer.
There is a little bit of mix and we didn’t get into this on the call as much but particularly on the cemetery side one of the things that occurs is funerals probably about the same and you really wouldn’t notice anything.
On the cemetery side of the business there is two factors that would impact it.
What you are seeing and who sells it.
We have – if we sell a property property has a higher cost of sale they had merchandized our service.
So as our major property goes up your percentage of selling costs should go up and that is a bit of a factor in the quarter not a big one but that’s one of the reason why cemetery costs were up.
The other thing is who sells it? We have – what you guys would refer to as inside sales and outside sales.
If an inside seller sells it generally that’s an easier sale and the cost associated with it is lower.
If more of the production goes to outside sales and again I’m using this as a generic analogy the cost of sales tends to be higher.
And so what we’ve seen is within our outside sales force is a higher productivity relative to the overall sales.
So you do get a little bit of mix shift.
It’s not that you’re paying more necessarily by inflationary terms.
It’s really how the business comes into the company.
Okay.
And then on the cemetery margins more generally I mean sometimes the profits are delayed because of the timing of developments when things are completed.
It looks like you are alluding to that a little bit in the commentary definitely in the press release.
Is there anything that would suggest that maybe we would see a decent a sequential change in the profits in the business? Yes.
I think what you’ve always seen – it’s kind of a weird thing Chris because you’re hitting on something that is probably the most confusing part of what we do.
If you look at this quarter two things happened.
One is in the second quarter of 2012 we constructed a lot of stuff.
And when we did that we recognized the profits.
So there is $5 million more profits last year from construction that’s in this year’s quarters than it’s in this year’s quarter.
The second thing that’s weird is this 10% down think.
We’ve sold almost $4 million more of stuff with less than 10% down.
So again we’ve got the selling costs in this year and we haven’t recognized the revenue yet.
So two things got to converged on this quarter and make it dampen a bit.
Now on the cash flow side this is where it gets even trickier.
When you construct something you get the profits but the cash probably is already been collected.
So when you look at the cash flow stream like look at this quarter profits were relatively flat cash is up.
Cash is up because we didn’t have earnings that weren’t attached to cash like we did last quarter.
So it’s going to have inflow and so logically you’d say next year – next quarter ought to be a little bit profitable in the cemetery side but it may not result in more cash.
If that makes good sense.
It does.
Thanks a lot.
Okay.
And our next question comes from Robert Willoughby.
Robert your line is open.
Actually two quick ones.
Eric have you mentioned there are (inaudible) what part of the funding of the Stewart deal will actually be cash? Is there any ranges you could throw out there? We really haven’t talked about it throwing a range out there Rob.
I’ll try to help you.
I mean it really depends on in terms of how much cash will be absorbed in the Stewart deal from their cash counts obviously.
Roughly that could be somewhere around $100 million or so.
And then it just really depends on how much cash we have versus what the liquidity profile that we want to keep.
So we look at our liquidity profile with a capacity we have on the new revolver which is a full $500 million at this point.
It is brand new.
We paid off $87 million off versus our cash balance.
But we may be able to use another $100 million as well.
So when I said a $600 million term loan and a $500 million revolver I certainly wasn’t trying to say in the comments that we were fully draw upon that.
Right.
It’s probably a couple of hundred million less than that.
And that’s how I calculated the extra $55 million of cash interest on an annual basis at the end of the day.
Perfect.
And do you have an estimate to the kind of Stewart related deal costs this quarter be around the same as what we just saw on second quarter? I think I would say that it would be somewhat equal.
I mean this quarter we have a lot of legal fees that were more front-ended.
Although we have a lot of legal costs related to what we’re going through with the FTC.
But what will ramp up a more some transition costs as we have started in June have an access to working with the really high quality folks that are over in New Orleans in the Stewart corporate office.
So we’ll see some costs there but yes I mean generally it’s going to be somewhere in the ballpark.
Okay.
That’s great.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Nicholas Jansen.
Nicholas your line is open.
Hi guys two more from me.
How is the dialog been thus far with the FTC in kind of any changed expectations relative to the May call regarding potential for divestitures at this stage of the game? No change in assumptions Nick at all.
I think it’s gone – progressed well as we would anticipate.
Few conversations but really early in the process still but – so we still anticipate basically the guidance we gave in before hadn’t changed.
Okay.
And then maybe just looking at the year-over-year improvement in the capital markets how is that contributed to EBITDA this year in kind of your expectations for the back half of the year? Thanks.
I mean I think the capital markets obviously have performed well a little above expectations but as you know the way our trust funds work in revenue recognition is only about 10% of the impact from the trust funds reverts to us in any given year so not a material impact but favorable nonetheless.
And generally Nick the trust funds as you saw are up just under 5%.
And to answer your questions typically for the back half of the year we’ve pretty much assumed flat performance.
So we stay up where we are right now through June 30.
So if you are specifically asking a model question that’s how we model it.
And then maybe just lastly in terms of given the better financing costs that you got from the Stewart deal relative to our expectation maybe your thoughts surrounding when you could maybe perhaps return to the buybacks longer term.
Is that more of a 2015 dynamic or how should we think about the de-leveraging post transaction? Well we’ve filed the credit agreement that I just described to you in early July.
And so there are some obviously some limitations above four times leverage as to find in that agreement you go look at that.
You are concluded from doing it below that you could start doing it.
And it really depends on when the transaction closes when you’re talking to calendar and when the divestitures occur but generally I don’t think it’s that late as you mentioned.
I would hope it’d be somewhere in maybe the back half of 2014 somewhere in that area but again there is a lot of variables in that timing in terms of when divestiture proceeds come in.
Thanks guy.
Great quarter.
Thanks Nick.
Our next question comes from Duncan Brown.
Duncan your line is open.
Good morning.
Maybe going back to the cemetery preneed.
Did I hear you right that you said you sold $4 million more cemetery preneed but that had less than the necessary 10% down payments to recognize it as revenue? That is correct Duncan.
Are there – sorry to interrupt you there.
I guess my question is can you give us some comfort regarding maybe cancellation rates or something like that that the quality of those sales that you’re comfort regarding that you’re going to get those payments going forward? We’re very comfortable with it.
We monitor it every month and every quarter and I would characterize our cancellation rates to be right around where we expected and there is no material movement one way or the other as it relates to our cancellation rates Duncan.
Has there been a – thank you for that.
Has there been a change in terms of what you all are offering in terms of offering lower initial down payments or different financing terms? I’d say lot of that’s driven regionally about market Duncan and so we have that campaigns that again as you radiate outside of the cemeteries and begin to get the people to probably more thinking about that at the moment and having save duckboard didn’t have the money.
Those were the type of the business that we’re writing but I think again you will find historically because of the sensitivity what we fell people are very loyal about this is the decision they don’t take very lightly.
And so our experience has been the collection rates remain in this general area and we’ve seen quarters like this before and we generally collect them and they are good customers.
So again we’re comfortable.
I think you’re going to see more of that as we have more success because again they think about cemetery and the radius around it.
As you expand that radius you’re going to begin to get customers that one who were thinking about it and two might not come into your cemetery.
And that’s going to probably require little more financing but again I can’t think of a better sale because we own the property and it’s pretty easy to repossess if somebody doesn’t like.
Sure.
That’s fair enough.
Last one for me and maybe not something you care to address but anything you can comment on regarding the situation in Illinois and the Teamsters Union? Well again I think I would say number one we’re open for business and we continue to serve client families.
You mentioned it in Chicago.
We’ve got 16 more patients that are affected by the set of our total 1 800.
We’ve about 60 employees.
And we have adequate staffing in place to continue to serve our families to the levels of service or professionalism that they would expect.
Again we don’t like these types of things.
These are employees we care about.
We want them back to work.
We think we’ve offered some very fair increases over the coming years and we’re really concerned about this under-funded pension plan that we’re going to paid into.
And we think it’s very important again to resolve these issues and we look forward to welcome them back at the appropriate time.
Great.
Thanks for taking the questions.
You bet.
(Operator Instructions) Now I’d like to turn the call back over to SCI management.
We want to thank everybody for participating in the call today.
We look forward to talking to you again.
I guess that would be in late October for our third quarter earnings call.
Have a great week.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q3 2013 Service Corporation International Earnings Conference Call.
My name is [Radha] and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode and later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to SCI management.
You may begin.
Hi and good morning.
This is Debbie Young Director of Investor Relations at SCI.
Thanks for joining us today to talk about our third quarter results and our preliminary outlook for 2014.
Before I turn the call over to Tom let me give you the usual Safe Harbor statements the comments made by our management team today will include statements that are not historical and are forward-looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections.
These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those factors identified in our press release and in our filings with the SEC that are available on our website.
Today’s comments may also include certain non-GAAP measurements such as normalized EPS adjusted operating cash flow and free cash flow.
Reconciliations of these measurements to be appropriate measures calculated in accordance with GAAP is provided on our website and in our press release and 8-K that were filed yesterday.
With that out of the way I’d like to now turn the call over to Tom Ryan SCI’s President and CEO.
Thank you Debbie and thanks everybody for being on the call with us today.
As usual we are going to have an overview of the quarter and the year-to-date results.
Then I would like to share some thoughts about the remainder of 2013 and what we see and then finally I’ll add some additional color to our preliminary outlook for 2014.
So for the quarter normalized earnings per share were $0.18 which was a penny lower than prior year slightly below our internal expectations.
That lost penny as compared to the prior year was from non-operating items such as lower form currency impact and higher tax rate that was slightly upset by a reduced share count.
Then operationally we were slightly down or fully essentially flat to prior year on earnings as our cemetery results were very strong primarily driven by an impressive increase cemetery sales production.
This was offset by weaker funerals results from lower comparable volume cost associated with investments in sales infrastructure and other inflationary funeral costs.
I must admit when I first saw our quarterly profit numbers I was a little disappointed.
As I dwelled into the numbers though I realized the shortfall was mainly funeral volume driven which we had anticipated as a strong flu season accelerated activity that would have occurred in the third quarter in the first half of the year.
To step back a moment and view the nine-month year-to-date numbers.
Earnings per share grew at 12% and free cash flow grew at 23%.
All of this was accomplished while we accumulated cash for Stewart and we are not deploying it more strategically -- through strategic way to share repurchases for smaller accretive deals.
Then I think what were the two most important strategic focus areas for 2013.
They were first investing in our preneed sales platform to create differential growth.
We have invested in recruiters trainers and resources so through renew or expand a channel.
From this we have grown our capital account by over 7% year-to-date.
We grew preneed funeral sales by over 14% in the quarter and we grew preneed cemetery sales over 16%.
I am really proud of our team for their effort too.
The second strategic focus for the year was to successfully close integrate and divest of assets under the FTC order for Stewart.
We believe we are on track to close Stewart by the end of this year.
We have seen a tremendous amount of interest in the required divestitures.
We are on track to deliver the $60 million in synergy that we had identified.
And finally we believe there is a real opportunity to drive sales differentially within the Stewart Cemetery portfolio.
So all in all I am really enthusiastic about where we are and where we are going.
Now for an overview of funeral in the quarter.
On the surface comparable funeral revenues grew by $3.9 million.
However $3.4 million was other funeral revenue primarily general agency revenue which is completely offset by incremental selling compensation had no immediate impact on profit margin.
Secondly recognize preneed revenue primarily Neptune grew $2.8 million during the quarter.
This revenue generates profit growth but as a lower gross margin in core SCI business.
Therefore core SCI comparable revenues were down some $2.3 million as comparable funeral volumes declined by 2.9% and this could not be completely offset by our 2.3% increase in the average revenue per case.
Year-to-date our volume is up 0.4% and supports what we have set previously.
That because of the strong flu season in the first quarter a portion of our volume that would have otherwise incurred throughout the year was accelerated in the first quarter.
Now from the margin perspective with the $3.8 million increase in revenues we would expect 60% margin while gross profit increased to $2.3 million.
Unfortunately we had a $9.8 million decline in gross profit.
I want to give some clarity on the $12.1 million gross profit difference.
There are four items that I want to touch upon.
First the real culprit to the margin decline realized that non-selling funeral segment expenses are some $280 million on a quarterly basis.
With 2.5% inflation rate we start the quarter down $7 million before considering revenue.
Now the second item our core revenues which enjoy 60% incremental margin are down $2.4 million at a 60% margin we loss another million for margin.
Now that total decline that I described at $8.4 million down because of the volume and because of the inflationary cost.
Now for some positive news but not achieving the anticipated 60% margin.
This Slide on number 3 net funeral revenues are $2.8 million over the 15% margin.
We get $400 000 not the 1.7 one would expect from core revenue growth.
And finally General Agency revenue growth was $3.4 million and it has no profit margin.
It is entirely offset by increased selling competition.
So again if this were core revenue you would expect to add $2 million profit.
I hope that’s helpful in analyzing what is going on within.
As we try to make clear in previous guidance discussion you know profits are very difficult to grow until we see movement in comparable funeral volume as revenue recognition is so dependent on the event of death.
Until then as you continue to see steady predictable cash flows and flat-to-slightly increase in profit.
So far in the nine months of 2013 we’ve seen our funeral gross profits grow from $258 million $263 million or some $5 million while we are growing our network rapidly in our preneed backlog to further leverage the inevitable demographic impact on our future profits and cash flows.
Speaking of growing backlog in the quarter I could not be more proud of our preneed sales efforts.
We grew total preneed funeral sales production by $23 million or 14.2% again exceeding our expectations.
We are very pleased with momentum that our preneed sales program has right now.
We currently expect to finish 2013 with a year-over-year increase in the high single digit percentage range.
Now for an overview of cemetery operations comparable cemetery revenue increased $17.6 million or 9% per quarter which was in line with our internal expectation.
As you will recall in the second quarter we talked about how we had a large amount of cemetery profit production that was deferred.
We told you that these revenues would get recognized primarily in the third quarter as we either constructed cemetery property or collected more than 10% of the sales price from the customer.
This is exactly what we saw.
Secondly our preneed cemetery sales production grew 16.3% in the quarter which we view as outstanding against the high hurdle rates set in the prior year quarter which is up some 14%.
Through the first nine months of year total cemetery preneed production was at 9.1%.
We are anticipating continued strong result in the fourth quarter leading to an increase in the high single digit percentage range for the entire year.
From a profit perspective cemetery gross profit grew $4 million or 9% in the quarter.
Our revenues were somewhat offset by higher healthcare cost and increase in selling cost associated with unrecognized revenues with the sales force infrastructure investment we are making for the future.
Then more to my comments about funeral we are very pleased with the operating performance for our cemeteries in the first nine months of the year the revenues are up nearly $39 million or 7%.
Profit is about $15 million or 13% and the margin is expanded some 110 basis point.
Now I would like to turn to our 2013 outlook.
As you saw from our press release our expectations for the full year 2013 normalized earnings per share are now at a range of $0.87 to $0.91 which is within our previous range but again taking to account our lower volume expectations for the fourth quarter.
Last year in the fourth quarter the reported volumes were up 1.5% which benefited from the front end of the strong flu season.
We’re modeling volumes to be down in the mid-single digit range this year in the fourth quarter.
This will result in our volume expectations for the full year to be down in the 1% range as we guided you in the previous quarter’s guidance.
Our expectations for the full year 2013 of $0.87 to $0.91 compares favorably to prior year 2012 earnings per share of $0.80 and represents a range of 9% to 14% growth over the 2012 year.
And remember this is true operating growth and we do not have the ability to deploy capital and grow earning per share through share repurchases or meaningful acquisition as we are focusing on the regulatory approval for the Stewart transaction.
So all in all a very impressive deal.
Now I’ll turn to our 2014 outlook.
So in addition to SCI’s core business growth we are enthusiastic about the growth of the Stewart acquisition gives us in 2014.
Our preliminary earnings per share guidance of $1 to $1.10 at the midpoint represents a little more and a 19% increase than the midpoint of our expected 2013 earnings per share.
Then in 2015 we would realize an additional $30 million in identified synergy.
We will have reduced the interest expense by deleveraging the business allowing us to deploy capital more aggressively.
I also believe that we could identify further natural synergies in our field operations like we did in Alderwoods and grow Stewart cemetery sales production at a more rapid pace than it’s historically been the case.
Now turning back to our broad assumptions for 2014.
You saw few of our assumptions regarding Stewart acquisition in our press release.
Perhaps one of the most important assumptions is quantifying the divestiture impact and estimating the timing.
We are still in discussion with the Federal Trade Commission and don’t know exactly where we are going to land.
We wanted to be helpful though giving you some kind of roadmap for 2014.
The purpose of modeling only our forecast assumes the range of $35 million to $45 million of EBITDA as divested.
And we have assumed that timing of the sale and the related proceeds that occurred during the first half of 2014.
This $35 million to $45 million of EBITDA equates to approximately $30 million to $40 million of EBITDA the way you are used to seeing it that Stewart reports it.
Keep in mind that we add back cemetery amortization under our definition.
Again this is just a range we use for modeling purpose.
Ultimately the divestiture amount should not make a material difference to our internal rates of return as long as we are able to get more and eight time in proceeds and based upon the level of interest we believe we can do that.
Now as it relates to our base business.
Let me give you a bit of additional color.
Comparable funeral volumes will still be challenging but we believe we can offset the effect as we continue to increase the sales volume.
Also we would expect higher recognized preneed revenues as Neptune continues to grow.
We will continue to focus on preneed which we feel is our best avenue to expand market share over the long-term.
We think we can continue to show success here in the mid-single digit range growth.
On the cemetery side revenues will continue to increase led by preneed sales production growth in the mid-to-high single digit range.
Preneed sales growth were driven by continued sales force expansion primarily in the family service team or inside sales for those of you not in the industry while we enhance the productivity of our expanded community service team throughout the year.
Segment margins will be impacted by the traditional inflationary cost in our business but we have a track record of minimizing that impact through our focus on standardized metrics in a continuous improvement culture.
And finally corporate general and administrative expenses to trend similar 2013 levels were about $26 million to $27 million for quarter excluding one-time costs.
In closing I just want to say thank you to our entire team of 21 000 people for their hard work and helping to produce great result thus far in 2013.
2014 will be an exciting year as we welcome the Stewart businesses and their talented people into our organization.
As you can see from our preliminary outlook this transaction is accretive to earnings to 2014 and even more pronounced as we enter 2013.
This concludes my prepared comments.
Now I will turn it over to Eric.
Thank you and good morning everybody.
I’m going to continue our comments today by walking you through the details of our cash flow and I will do this for both the quarter and our full-year 2013 cash flow expectations.
We then plan to provide you some color on our cash flow outlook for 2014 which includes the Stewart acquisition.
So as we disclosed in the press release our adjusted operating cash flow in the third quarter was just over a $100 million which was slightly ahead of our expectations.
Compared to the prior year quarter we are $21 million lighter in adjusted operating cash flow.
This variance was expected.
It is predominately associated with a timing of vendor payment last year in the third quarter.
And recall as we discussed before last year during the third quarter we rolled out our new purchase order and accounts payable system because of the complexities involved in this implementation which was during the third quarter last year many of our normal third quarter 2012 vendor payment shifted into the following two quarters.
This quarter’s cash flow was also positively affected by strong preneed cash receipts in the current quarter due in part to the outstanding sales production as Tom just mentioned.
Maintenance CapEx and cemetery development CapEx and remember these were the two components that we consider our recurring CapEx.
These two components for the quarter came in at approximately $27 million which was slightly lower than our expectations but consistent with the prior year.
When you deduct this recurring capital spending items from our adjusted cash flow from ops we calculate our free cash flow for the third quarter to be about $76 million.
Our cash flow deployment during the third quarter continued to be somewhat limited.
We did payoff the balance on our existed bank credit facility of roughly $87 million in July.
This was part of our process of finalizing the expected Stewart acquisition financing.
And from an acquisition standpoint we did make a funeral cemetery combination acquisition in Texas during the quarter which was a total investment of about $5 million.
Looking forward we will continue to build our cash balance in anticipation of the Stewart acquisition.
As you can see from the press release we did tighten the range of our adjusted cash flow from ops for the full-year 2013 to $415 million to 430 million which is well within our previous guidance range.
Our guidance for maintenance and cemetery development CapEx remains unchanged and that’s approximately $110 million.
Our free cash flow which deducts our current CapEx from the adjusted operating cash flow is therefore anticipated to be in a range of $305 million to $320 million for the full-year 2013.
This compares to about $272 million of free cash flow in 2012 which is 12% to 18% increase over 2012 free cash flow level.
We are extremely pleased with this 2013 free cash flow result.
And remember this growth has been achieved despite about a $15 million increase in cash taxes in 2013 versus 2012.
So as we continue to look ahead for 2014 I just want to emphasize as a preliminary outlook that we given in our press release today is subject to more uncertainties than usual mostly related to the timing of the closing on Stewart acquisition the amounts and timing of the divestitures that will be required the timing of the expected synergies and variability in cash taxes which I will discuss in a moment.
When we speak to you again in February to report our fourth quarter earnings we will try to update you with better estimates for any items for which we expect to have more clarity.
So looking at cash flow for 2014 we expect our adjusted cash flow from operations to range between $430 million and $480 million with 8% increase from the 2013 midpoints of cash flow from operation.
In addition the benefiting from the addition of Stewart’s cash flows our funeral and cemetery operating cash flows are expected to grow next year.
However our cash tax payments are increasing with the anticipating exploration of SCI’s net operating losses which will occur during the early part of 2014.
So we still have a lot of work to do in refining our cash tax estimate primarily as it related to incorporating the Stewart acquisition.
However our preliminary estimate as of today is that cash taxes will grow to approximately $70 million in 2014 assuming a Stewart transaction occurs in late 2013 or early 2014.
This compares to about $30 million of cash taxes expected in 2013 so this leads to an increase of $40 million in cash tax.
When you neutralize the impact of this increase in cash tax payment our expecting operating cash flow is growing approximately 15% as opposed to the 8% that I mentioned before that includes the increasing cash tax.
So we will keep you posted as we refine our cash tax estimate as we work through the integration of Stewart which will include refining our assumptions around their net operating losses their deferred tax assets et cetera.
Finally capital spending in 2014 for maintenance and cemetery development due to the inclusion of Stewart will grow approximately $30 million which now leads us to a range of $135 million to $145 million expected in 2014.
So one last note about our 2014 outlook as it relates to interest.
While the annualized interest expense related to the incremental Stewart acquisition debt of roughly $1.4 billion is estimated to be around $56 million.
Our anticipated debt reductions expected during 2014 will reduce our interest amount resulting in interest expense for the full year 2014 to an expected range of $175 million to $185 million.
Our cash interest payments are expected to be about $5 million less than its interest expense range.
So in conclusion the company continues to be financially strong.
And we are very excited about our growth prospects in 2014.
As we have previously stated it is our attention to quickly de-lever the company following the close of the Stewart acquisition by using both our free cash flow and our anticipated divestiture proceeds.
Our proven track record of quick deleveraging post large acquisition will continue to allow us to transition our focus to additional future investment and capital deployment that will enhance shareholder value in the future.
So we appreciate to join us this morning and operator will now open up the call to questions.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from A.J.
Rice from UBS.
A.J.
may begin.
Thanks.
Hi everybody.
Maybe a couple of things related to the deal.
Did the government shutdowns -- did that have any affect as far as you can sell on the timing on the processing of your submittals and all? A.J.
this is Tom.
The government shutdown which I believe is 18 days.
The team that we are working with was required to stop.
One of the things we try to do was our side is continue to work diligently to not lose any time in that process.
I think we were very successful on attempting to do that.
So we still feel comfortable about the December time frame that we’ve got to outline for you.
Having said that we did -- we lost a little bit of time but I think we made that up.
Okay.
You referenced on the divestitures $35 million to $45 million of EBITDA you are thinking as a preliminary swipe at it.
And eight times would be the targeted sale at a minimum.
So that would be about $320 million of gross proceeds at the mid point.
Do you think is there likely to be a tax hit on that as well or is that gross proceeds which you will actually probably get? You know right now it’s hard to tell because we have to know specifically A.J exactly which assets for sale and what the tax basis is for that.
So right now we have not taken into account additional cash taxes related to the divestures.
So the $0.5 million that I assumed of that puts aside capital losses or capital gain associated with that.
We’ll have to wait until we get further and identify it as specific property and their tax basis balance sheet so we can comment on that.
Okay.
And then just thinking about the assumptions you are using in your ‘14 guidance around volume and pricing.
Are you assuming that where the volume and pricing assumptions you are using are they pretty much the same for the Stewart portfolio or the SCI portfolio or is there any reason to assume that Stewart would be able to do materially different in either direction.
And then any comment about -- next year volume assumptions? Sure.
This is Tom and I think we would say that right now in our guidance we have similar assumptions around volume and pricing.
And I think it would not -- they are not dramatically different than what we’ve experienced over the last three to four years.
And we always model slightly down volume and a little bit of growth in average to get back.
I think we have additional tool now on the funeral side with Neptune.
It gives a little bit more growth in that category of recognized preneed revenue.
As far as Stewart goes and you know us well for long time we are very hesitant to give guidance where we don’t have the specific plan.
My gut tells me there is opportunity that will have on the funeral side with regards to packages and success that we can do there expanding the products and services that we sell.
And on the cemetery side again Stewart went through a lot of change in their sales organization in the last couple of years and I would expect that we could do some things differentially there but we’re not going to baked that into guidance so we don’t have specific plans to do so.
Okay.
And then maybe just want to ask follow-up on the last point you were making.
So it sounds like you guys think you can accelerate the preneed business at Stewart a little bit certainly they have been going through an integration that slowed them down.
Is that on both the funeral and the cemetery side? And is there working capital assumptions you made in your cash flow guidance about that that is worth highlighting? Great question A.J and the answer is we do believe.
Our gut tells us we can and we have factored that into our guidance.
We believe we’re going to go preneed on both sides and there will be a slight working capital use which is included in our guidance.
And again that’s a gut feeling based upon what they have been able to do over the last three or four year and the growth that we’ve been able to see in some of the things we try combining that with the fact they have made some difficult changes.
I think good ones with regard to compensation but I think it’s hurt them as it relates to their ability to grow.
So we’re hoping that once we get this integrated we can start experiencing growth rates similar to what we have seen over the last three or four years which is essentially high single digit growth rate range.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks A.J.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question comes from Chris Rigg from Susquehanna International Group.
Chris you may begin.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Just a clarifying question on the divestures.
So the guidance the EPS cash flow et cetera does that assume the $35 million to $45 million of EBITDA is gone on January 1st? It actually assumes that we divested it over the first half of the year so may be your best way to think about that is to use the point March 31st in your model.
But again Chris I would caution you we just don’t no.
It depends on the time that we close the deal and we’ve done this before so I do feel that we have a process that such that we will get this accomplished at a pretty rapid way.
In the level of interest again I would just tell you that it’s been pretty tremendous.
I mean lot of phone calls lot of people that are very interested in parts of the assets all the assets.
So I think that process will work well.
Okay.
And then on the -- your leverage comments about aggressive trying to aggressively delever once the deal closes.
How should we think about that? Is that on a leverage multiple basis that the EBITDA or you guys actually targeting sort of an absolute level of debt over the next 12 to 24 months post transaction? Chris it’s really more from the leverage ratio perspective and as we have told you prior to the Stewart announcement we were running the company on a net debt EBITDA basis 3 to 3.5.
We kind of like the midpoint of that maybe to the higher end of that.
Upon close we are going to be in the low 4s call it 4 in the quarter.
And we are going to work our way down as quickly as we can in that area.
That doesn’t mean though that we’re not going to deploy capital along the way.
There are certain limitations such as the first $200 million of proceeds needs to go to reduce in the term loan but after that I would anticipate a balanced approach in terms of enhancing shareholder value as we delever.
Okay.
And then last question can you just help us or remind us rather on the Alderwoods synergies where you sort of started initially what the initial target was and then where you ultimately ended up over time? Thanks a lot.
Yeah.
In Alderwoods and again this is a different transaction but you would expect some similarities.
We initially identified about 60 million of synergies and most of that related to kind of purchasing and back office synergies that were identifiable and quantifiable at the time.
We also knew that once we got into the operation we would begin to find synergies as it relates to the footprint of these markets.
So think about management structure think about numbers of facilities think about utilization of staff and vehicle and all these things will come one day.
But that happens to occur once you know which business are you keeping and you develop a local plan for realizing some of those synergies but those are some things that we later found.
We also found some opportunities that relates to packages in our success and expanding the products and services that we offer client family.
And again finally here which I think is a little bit difference Alderwoods didn’t have a lot of cemeteries.
That one tremendous cemetery in Rose Hills and we saw a lot of opportunity as we gets there but here Stewart has some of the most premier cemeteries in the country and we are excited we have seen some success in managing our cemeteries particularly in major markets and I would anticipate that that’s an opportunity as well.
So Alderwoods went from 60 to 90 and the 90 is really kind of field synergies packages and alike.
Hopefully I answered your question Phil? You did.
Thanks a lot.
And our next question comes from Nicolas Jansen with Raymond James.
Nicolas please begin.
Hi guys.
Maybe just a thought on kind of the cadence of earnings for 2014 obviously you have a very tough comp in the first quarter certainly the synergies will probably build over time.
So how should we think about kind of the cadence of kind of earnings and cash flow as we kind of construct our pro forma numbers for next year? Nick I think you are right.
We don’t provide quarterly guidance as you know and but I think the way I would think about it is this you’ve got really tough comparable funeral volumes in the first quarter that hopefully did easier by the back end of the year.
Your synergy observation is true as well again most of that would move towards the mid and back of the year.
And then finally what I would like to believe which are the improvements to the Stewart businesses that we find are more likely to occur again towards the back half of the year.
So as I think about the cadence first half we are giving all the detail right so that we can be rewarded with the fruits for our labor in the back half of the year but that’s a 30 000 feet hopefully that’s helpful to you.
No.
That is and I am kind of thinking about preneed this is kind of the -- it’s been multiple quarters in a row where you had robust performance there I know you added some kind of sales force in to help drive that? But what are you seeing on preneed side? How sustainable is the double-digit growth and kind of given that Stewart has had some challenges growing preneed over the last couple of years where do you think you offer the most level of opportunity as you kind of deploy your strategies on preneed to their book of business? Thanks.
Well sitting across from two of the geniuses they are going to do it but I will go ahead and try to explain on their behalf.
We really believe that what we are doing most recently if we go back think over the last four to five years all our success has been on productivity.
We have done tremendous amount of growth but the number of people on our organization really hasn’t changed.
It has ebbed and flowed slightly.
But it all goes back to retention.
We have a hard time getting people on board and successful and so therefore you end up seeing the same people we are getting (inaudible) so far because they are more efficient.
We got better leads.
We got better technology better training.
So what we said here is that how do we grow the number of people and you will notice in my comments the headcount is up 7%.
We have never done that in the last four five years.
We did that on purpose.
And the way we do that on purpose is we added some infrastructure.
We’ve got more sales management in place.
We’ve got recruiters.
We’ve got more trainers than we had before all with the idea of making these new people more successful and therefore more productive and having them stay.
And I would tell you that we feel pretty good about we are ahead of everything.
It’s a big milestone to move and it’s moving slowly but we are getting the job done.
So we are excited about where we are.
I think as we think about bringing Stewart on board we see Stewart in a lot of same things that we were doing.
They are probably a few years behind in some of the changes that we have made to our sales organization.
I think they are making and we are learning some things from their side.
So we feel pretty confident.
There were very good ideas and our experience in having gone through this so we can get to know them onboard with us and very quickly begin to see some of the results that we’ve seen.
And we are excited about onboarding them particular around the cemeteries.
Our real success has been in major metropolitan areas where we have large internment cemeteries.
Stewart has a lot of this so I would tell you that we are excited about onboarding those businesses and getting started with some of the enhancement that we can provide with ideas both on Stewart and from our success that we’ve seen over the last three four years.
Okay.
And maybe just lastly thinking about Neptune and just the cremation customers as a whole.
Is there anything that you are doing that Stewart is not doing or anything that they are doing unless cremation garden thinks on those ones that you are not doing that you can see perhaps incremental synergies develop on the topline over time as you guys deploy different cremation strategies? I would say they are doing a good job and we are still analyzing.
But they have seen some success with these cremations garden strategies.
And again we’ve got some of those too but they have seen probably some differential success in how they are doing it.
So we believe we can take some of those thoughts and ideas and apply in our business which should create synergies.
On the Neptune style front which again is more of a funeral side model.
What I would say is very different than we see about Neptune our Neptune and anybody else in the industry and we were no different than Stewart.
This is a much more aggressive preneed model whereas our old direct cremation model and Stewart’s current and really anybody else to matter is really centered more around the agony customer.
And we weren’t really aggressive about selling preneed.
We believe the Neptune model is best and I think there will be opportunities within their direct cremation population to apply some of those strategies that Neptune supported in a very successful manner.
And like you mentioned at the same time there are some great ideas that they generated that we are going to take into our network and hopefully win-win on both sides.
Thanks for all the color guys.
Thanks Nick.
And we’ll now turn the call back over to SCI Management for closing remarks.
We want to thank everybody for participating in the call.
The next time we talk to you I believe we’ll be when we will report the full year in the fourth quarter which should be in February.
So until then everybody take care and thanks again for calling us today.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the First Quarter 2014 Service Corporation International Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Ellen and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to SCI Management.
You may begin?  Good morning everyone this is Debbie Young with Investor Relations at SCI.
Welcome to our call today as we discuss our results for the first quarter.
As usual before I turn the call over to Tom and Eric for their remarks let me remind you that the comments made by our management team will include statements that are not historical and are forward-looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections.
These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those factors identified in our press release and in our filings with the SEC that are available on our website.
In today’s comments we may also refer to certain non-GAAP measurements such as normalized EPS adjusted operating cash flow and free cash flow.
Reconciliation of these measurements to the appropriate measures calculated in accordance with GAAP is provided on our website and in our press release and 8-K that were filed yesterday.
Okay with that behind us I’d like to now turn the call over to SCI’s President and CEO Tom Ryan.
Thank you Debbie and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on the call today.
I’m going to begin my comments by giving you the customary highlights before and I’ll provide some details on the Stewart onboarding and integration including some very good news on our identification and planning of additional synergies.
Finally I’ll close by giving you some color on our outlook in the rest of 2014.
Beginning with an overview of the quarter we were pleased to start off the year by reporting normalized earnings per share of $0.28 which is in line with both the prior year as well as our internal expectations.
This is particularly significant knowing that we’re facing the toughest funeral comparison in several years.
If you recall the first quarter of 2013 had an exceptionally strong flu season.
Although we felt the impact of this decline in the first quarter particularly in our funeral businesses I’m pleased to tell you that the legacy Stewart business performance made up the difference bringing in over a 117 million of combined funeral and cemetery revenues which were slightly ahead of our expectations.
I want to pause a moment to give my heartfelt thanks to the entire SCI team both my legacy SCI and my legacy Stewart teammates for all of their hard work and execution in the first few months of the integration.
Let’s face it.
Anytime you have an acquisition of this size there is going to be some level of disruption as we work through the integration as well as the Federal Trade Commission divestiture process.
Fortunately this isn’t our first large integration and I believe to-date we’ve performed admirably despite these distractions and remain very confident in our ability to drive value.
Now for an overview for funeral operations in the quarter.
Overall the results of our comparable funeral segment came in slightly lower than our projections for the quarter.
When compared to the prior year our first quarter funeral revenues declined by $23 million.
As I mentioned earlier we expected the majority of this decline in our core funeral revenues due to a strong flu season in the prior year.
Funeral volume decreased 7.2% from 2013.
That being said if you compare this first quarter volumes to the first quarter of 2012 so we’re excluding the 2013 flu season anomaly funeral volumes are relatively flat.
This is encouraging for the remainder of the year as we put behind us the most difficult quarterly comparison of 2014.
Partially offsetting the volume decline was a 1.8% increase in the sales average when you exclude Canadian currency impact and trust fund income.
This was achieved despite a 200 basis point increase in cremation rate.
The revenue shortfall was the primary reason the comparable funeral profits are down by $22.1 million.
Gross margin percentages were also lower by about 370 basis points in the current year quarter.
Last year we had 26% gross margin which was unique due to the high margin impact of incremental volume.
We would have expected margins to be in the 23% to 24% range for the first quarter of 2014.
However increases in pre-need selling costs and higher maintenance and utility costs associated with the harsh winter put additional pressure on our margins.
On a pre-need basis we grew comparable pre-need funeral sales by 1.3% in the quarter.
In recent years we’ve seen a higher growth rate on the pre-need funeral sales.
We believe lower comparable volumes which generate leads coupled with the high level of changed management in the quarter temporarily impacted our ability to grow at these higher levels.
So to summarize funeral results we saw a decrease in comparable revenues which we anticipated.
We did a good job of managing costs and we’re pleased with the performance of the legacy Stewart businesses that we started off a year.
As it relates to the remainder of the year we are still modeling funeral volumes for the year to be down in the low-single digit percentage range which implies more favorable comparisons in the remaining three quarters of the year.
Additionally we would continue to expect to grow pre-need funeral sales production in the mid-to-high single digit percentage range for the remainder of the year.
Now let’s talk about cemetery operations comparable cemetery revenue increased $1.2 million over the prior year quarter and comparable cemetery profits declined $2.8 million in the quarter.
As you can imagine we had a few distractions during the quarter coming off the closing of the Stewart transaction at the end of December.
The most noticeable impact of the quarter were the under performance in cemetery pre-need sales production which fell short of both prior year as well as our internal expectations.
As we rolled out changes in our sales management infrastructure we had approximately one-third of our 38 sales directors that were new in their roles.
So they were getting up speed on our sales program in their area of responsibility they were also spending more time focused on the integration of our new businesses.
This was particularly noticeable in January and February we saw the largest decreases in our pre-need sales production.
Conversely in March we saw lot of energy and focus in the sales team as they begin to hit strive.
As a matter of fact March of 2013 was our highest production month of 2013 and in March of 2014 we were able to match the prior year sales level.
This has us very optimistic about the remainder of the year.
Looking forward we do anticipate there to be some additional choppiness in the second quarter as our sales force undergo the rollout of the new compensation plan in training on our updated point of sale system.
Additionally we are adding significant enhancements to our lead management capabilities by introducing salesforce.com.
Absent these temporary changes our sales team is beginning to hit stride and we are confident about our ability to delivery exceptional growth in 2014 and beyond.
So to summarize our cemetery results our first quarter pre-need cemetery sales were lighter than we hoped to start out of our integration.
But looking forward we reiterate our March 2014 monthly performance has given us confidence that we can achieve our targeted levels of up mid-to-high single-digit percentage increases for the year.
Now let’s shift to Stewart.
We are very excited about the legacy Stewart business performance in the first quarter.
As I mentioned a few minutes ago legacy Stewart businesses generated over $117 million of revenue in the first quarter.
Generally I would say the margins and sales averages are in line with our expectations as these businesses experience the same decline in funeral volume as we did in the first quarter.
While we are still ramping up our efforts on Stewart’s pre-need funeral and cemetery sales programs we continue to believe this represents an area of meaningful opportunity for the company and we should begin seeing the benefits in the back half of the year.
In addition to the solid results from our acquired businesses you may have already seen in the earnings release that we’re pleased to have identified and developed plans for additional synergies that will have a partial benefit this year and a full impact in 2015.
Recall we originally estimated that the benefit of leveraging the back office scale combined with the purchasing synergies from the Stewart acquisition would be about $60 million.
We now have increased our range to approximately $75 million to $80 million.
These additional synergies are primarily related to procurement and opportunities to further leverage the back office scale of the combined companies.
Of the new total synergy estimate of the $75 million to $85 million we still believe that half will be achieved during 2014 and the remainder in 2015.
Looking forward we believe we can continue to fund additional value in legacy Stewart businesses to revenue synergies as we implement strategy pricing dig any funeral packages catering or reception events and flower sales programs.
Shifting to the divestiture process the process is going very well.
Maybe the timings are little slower than we expected.
However we remain on track to complete all sales within the next three to six months.
We again reiterate that we still expect the divestitures to generate between $315 million to $340 million of after-tax proceeds.
Keep in mind we make about $4 million a month as long as we own.
In summary as it relates to the Stewart transaction we believe that the acquisition was a big win for us and for our shareholders and we look forward to the future growth of these businesses once they are fully integrated.
So to wrap-up for the first quarter behind us we remain confident that our earnings per share and cash flow targets for 2014 communicated to you back in February.
With the additional synergies identified we believe that we are currently trending towards the high-end of our guidance ranges.
We continue to be enthusiastic about the profitable growth that the Stewart acquisition will contribute in 2014 and again in 2015 as the full weight of the synergies are realized which are now in the $75 million to $80 million range.
And I’m optimistic about the potential for further synergies to be identified as it relates to implementing other SCI revenue strategy.
As I think about the remaining quarters we may experience some additional change in management distraction during the second quarter which could be slightly disruptive from a sales perspective.
However the back half of the year should enjoy a large share of synergy impact as well as an integrated focused sales team that can generate impressive growth.
Lastly we expect to continue to generate strong cash flow which Eric is going to update you on shortly.
This cash flow along with anticipated divestiture proceeds expected in 2014 will support a quick deleveraging and allows to return our focus to capital deployment strategies designed to enhance shareholder value.
This concludes my prepare comments and I’ll now turn the call over to Eric.
Good morning everyone.
I’m going to start by commenting on our cash flow results for the quarter and then talk about the remainder of 2014 as well and I also want to touch on our current financial position and capital deployment plans for the remainder of the year.
So let’s start with cash flow and talk about our adjusted operating cash flow which grew $9 million in the first quarter to $164 million which was in line with our expectations.
So let me highlight some of the key items that are driving this.
Cash flow in the quarter benefited from incremental cash flows related to the addition of Stewart which performed in line with our expectations.
Also as I mentioned on the February call that we had cash flow benefited this quarter from lower payroll disbursements as we partially funded the January 2014 payroll in December of 2013 and that amount was approximately $18 million.
These increases in cash flows were somewhat offset by anticipated higher payments for cash interest and cash taxes which collectively together grew $22 million over the prior year quarter.
Cash interest payments increased 14 million and this is related to the incremental debt associated with the Stewart acquisition.
And cash tax payments increased from about $6 million to $14 million so increased about $8 million and again both of these items were in line with our expectations.
If you deduct maintenance CapEx in the cemetery development CapEx of approximately 22 million we calculate our free cash flow for the first quarter to be approximately $141 million or $7 million over the prior year while slightly higher than last year CapEx came in lower than we expected.
So we expect our CapEx to ramp up later this year and again expect our full year guidance to remain unchanged.
Overall we were very pleased with our first quarter free cash flow results.
We recognize this represents the result of a lot of hard work on both the part of the legacy Stewart and or SCI associates as we work through the integration and look forward to further cash flow growth with the new combined foundation.
And again as Tom mentioned I want to thank all of our associates for all the hard work during the first quarter as we are working through the Stewart integration.
So now looking forward for the rest of 2014 I’d like to re-affirm our outlook for the full year 2014 cash flow from operations again excluding special items of the range of $430 million to $480 million.
Consistent with the updated EPS expectations we now believe we will be trending toward the upper end of this cash flow range as a result of the additional Stewart synergy mentioned by Tom earlier as well as from a cash tax update I am going to mention in a second.
So some things I would like you to keep in mind as you think about the annual range of cash flow.
First our first quarter cash flow is seasonally high due to cash interest payments that primarily occur in the second and fourth quarters.
During the first quarter we paid about $16.5 million in cash interest.
We expect to pay just under $70 million in the second quarter and just under $90 million thereafter in the second half of 2014.
So now turning to cash taxes.
In February to remind you I stated that we expect cash tax payments in 2014 to be approximately $70 million.
During the quarter we completed our first opportunity to not only confirm but refine at a very detailed level many of our tax assumptions that we made related to the Stewart operations during our 2013 diligence period.
As a result of this more detailed analysis we are now anticipating that our 2014 cash tax payment will be in a range of $50 million to $60 million.
So further positive refinement of the original cash tax assumptions related to Stewart would push us toward the lower end of this cash tax range.
However stronger operating performance would create higher taxable income and would push us to the high end of this cash tax range.
As I mentioned previously our recurring CapEx guidance of $135 million to $145 million also remains unchanged and this results in anticipated free cash flow in 2014 to range from $285 million to $345 million.
With the addition of the incremental Stewart synergies and expectations in lower cash taxes that I just mentioned we do believe we’re currently trending toward the upper end of this free cash flow range.
On a per share basis our free cash flow guidance range equates to $1.32 to $1.59 using a fully diluted weighted average share count of about 217 million shares.
We believe this represents a favorable high single digit free cash flow yield.
Now I’m going to shift to our financial position and give you a few highlights on our capital deployment.
We continue to have robust liquidity.
In March 31 we had $150 million of cash on hand and about $330 million of availability on our credit facility.
In terms of deploying cash in the quarter we funded a $110 million on a revolver during the quarter and use cash on hand as well to retire all of Stewart’s $132 million of convertible notes as well as the associated premium of about $36 million.
Also during the quarter we bought the remaining outstanding shares of Neptune.
This cash deployment is reflected in financing activities on our cash flow statement.
With this purchase we now own a 100% of Neptune and I want to stress that we continue to be very excited and believe that SCI Direct has significant growth potential.
Finally we paid $17 million in dividend in the quarter which reflects the recent 14% increase in the dividend rate which is now $0.8 per share per quarter.
As Tom noted earlier we remain on track to receive around $315 million to $340 million of after-tax proceeds from the divestitures associated with the Stewart acquisition.
We expect to close all these divestitures transactions and receive the associate proceeds this summer or early fall.
We will use the first $200 million of the after-tax divestitures proceeds to pay down a portion of our roughly $600 million term loan as stipulated in our bank credit agreement.
Also note that we have acquired quarterly payment on our term loan which remaining payment of approximately $23 million and the remaining portion of 2014.
Now with these required debt payment as a backdrop we do plan to take a balanced approach to deploying our capital for the remainder of the year.
This will be done through a blend of share repurchases and debt payments as we get closer to our targeted leverage around a mid three range on a net debt basis.
This leverage which is calculated as net debt to EBITDA in accordance with our credit facility dropped to below four times to 3.95 times as of March 31.
This being below our four times credit facility threshold give us increased flexibility in making capital allocation decisions this coming quarter which includes our ability to reconsider share repurchases and just to remind you we currently have a $190 million authorized under our share repurchase programs.
In addition to this we will also consider specific market acquisitions as always as the appropriate returns and continue to returning cash to our shareholders through our dividend.
So in conclusion with the first quarter now behind us we are excited about the remainder of the 2014 and being able to deploy our capital in a way that we believe will create value for our shareholders.
Our first priority however as we look at the remainder of the year will be to ensure we effectively and efficiently are able to complete the integration of the Stewart operations and most importantly achieve our robust synergy targets.
So with that operator that concludes our prepared remarks for this quarter and we’d now like to turn the call over to questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) The first question is from Bob Willoughby from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hey Tom or Eric can you give us any forecast on what Neptune can do for you this year it’s obviously well ahead of our expectations and what incremental economics will you be recognizing with the consolidation of that remaining interest? Bob I don’t have the numbers in front of me but I think you saw from the release or can conclude we’re growing in the kind of mid-teen digit range with in the direct now.
We’ve got 80 locations opened we’ve got five new ones openings this year and we’re very excited and would expect to be able to continue that type of growth rate as we think about the rest of the year.
So again on a consolidated basis its pennies added to the base but an exciting part of I think a tremendous growth stories we think about the next three or five to 10 years out.
So that we’ll be kind of the growth rate I’d expect for this year.
Would you use a double-digit rate in the outline years as well? I think so I mean I think at some point obviously it gets it starts to begin to slow a little more.
We expanded now to 80 offices.
I think we started today we had 30.
So we think we can continue to open but that’s going to trend down over the years but I think still its going to far outpace you know traditional business growth rates for us and for anybody else for that matter.
Okay.
Can you comment just on inability what why reasons for slowing in the divestiture program and how that might impact your share repurchase plans what’s a reasonable target for the back half of the year for share repurchases? Well I think two things there.
Generally it’s finalizing contracts with the buyers and more importantly the approval process as we go to the Federal Trade Commission about the credibility of the buyer.
And again it just a process that you have to go through with the Federal Trade Commission and it only comes once we submit a final contract.
So that’s the little bit of the holdup.
I tried to mention in there the good news is we make about $4 million a month on every time we hold these businesses.
So it’s not tremendous skin of our back from a cash flow perspective.
I would say you should have no impact on our ability to buyback shares.
That is something that is imminent.
Is a $40 million to $50 million buyback a realistic expectation? Over what period of time.
Plenty of period time you’re talking Bob.
Second half.
Yeah.
Yeah I say definitely I mean we have a $190 million of authorization available and even above the $200 million of proceeds that actually go to the term loan there is another $120 million or so when you look at the guidance after-tax and then we have all of the free cash flow and the guidance that I mentioned in the call.
So definitely yes.
Okay wonderful.
And then just lastly your synergy numbers don’t include some of the revenue opportunities with the Stewart team as you rollout your products and services through their network.
Any kind of guesstimate the magnitude of that opportunity? It’s hard to say Bob similar things I tried to touch upon I’d say on the funeral side of the equation.
So as you think about the effectiveness of the Dignity package program and again Stewart had packages and had an impact from that.
But we learn from them we learn from us and what we see historically as we come out a better product and a better ability to deliver additional products and services.
We also have the catering program which at today is about $30 million run rate on revenues for our set of businesses.
The other thing I think you’ll notice and there is regional issues but when you think about pricing we’ve got a much more I’d say centralized strategic approach to how we price both cemetery and funeral.
It’s takes a lot of inputs from competitors in the area and the like.
And I’d say Stewart’s pricing was a little more regional little more local and so our belief is as we get in there to do some of these things there’s probably some opportunities on those equation.
And finally and I think the biggest impact of all is as we can put the two sales forces together get them on salesforce.com get them on one contract system get them on one pay plan and that’s going to occur on May the 1st.
Once we’ve got the run rate there our expectations are that we can really grow pre-need cemetery sales once we get it altogether.
So it’s hard to estimate because if I had a actionable plan I would tell you but I’d tell you at this point we’re excited and we think it’s a big opportunity and the question’s really probably when not if.
That’s great thank you.
Thanks.
The next question is from A.J.
Rice with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi everybody.
Congratulations on how things are going so far it looks like things are going very well.
I know and Eric you made some comments about this around your comments on cash taxes but I know one of the uncertainties in the due diligence process on Stewart was the fact that they had this big deferred tax asset.
Have you been able to is part of your comment about better profile on cash taxes reflective – doing more due diligence there or is that still something that you’re looking at and having really determined what the impact would be? A little or both A.
J.
I hate to answer that way but we’re still in the middle of really refining down at the real low level detailed level at a legal entity for Stewart.
We had assumptions we told you we had assumptions related to the deferred tax asset.
Part of the refinement of the cash taxes is related to that issue as well as other NOL carry forward issues but there is still more analysis to come we’re right in the middle of it right now.
Okay second I guess.
What about the trust funds I know they had managed their trust funds internally.
You obviously use a multiple number of outside experts.
Are you making any assumptions longer-term about change and does that have a financial impact on you whatever you’re going to do with those trust fund assets? Well the first thing I’d say is they did a different philosophy by managing it internally but they also produce very very good trust fund returns.
But we have made the decision and the integration to take the Stewart trust funds and merge them into our common trust funds and use our investment philosophy which is a philosophy outsourcing based on our asset allocation to call it 25 to 30 professional institutional money managers across that asset allocation.
And we are in the process again there is a little bit of tax planning in terms of getting those assets into our funds that will work in through us well A.J.
But I would anticipate this happening in the next probably three to four months.
Okay.
And there have been some discussion about looking at something more strategic with respect to the trust fund assets I’m trying to unlock some value there any update on that or any thoughts about that? A.J.
this is Tom let me step back as I think there is a lot of questions around this area.
Clearly our priority and focus over the last 18 months has been on negotiating a definitive agreement for Stewart and FTC review process closing in integration of a significant transaction.
This in itself is materially increases our opportunity for further scale and long-term value creations for our shareholders and we remain focused on delivering that values.
At the same time we've realized we've enjoyed the tax shields of NOLs over more than a decade and by the way it's more fun using them than creating NOLs.
And those days are coming to an end.
So some months back we embarked on a comprehensive review with the assistance of external advisors on basically opening all options up and relooking in an effort to enhance long-term value for our shareholders and obviously as we conclude material things we'll provide update in the process.
One of those that A.J.
is touching upon is this trust monetization angle something that we can look at it accelerating money out of trust clearly we had conversations about REITs there is leverage levels that we can look at there is international expansion opportunities so there is a variety of things that I think will be looking at and some can go together some can't and so we're going through a I'd say comprehensive process and I want to hesitate to conclude anything or give partial answers at this point in time.
But know that we are working very hard to see if there are other ways to enhance value beyond what we intend to is our traditional approach of maintaining leverage levels and using excess cash to get back to our shareholders.
Okay.
I’m just going to slip one last one in there.
So you bought the minority position out of Neptune.
I mean I guess their operating assumption has been that you sort of on hold for small mom and pop type of transactions even though the market did seem to be picking up a little bit prior to the Stewart deal.
Is that still the case or are you given that you’ve gotten your leverage down a little quicker than expected.
Are you thinking maybe you would be open to some mom and pop deals as well? We definitely would be open to mom and pop deals.
We’re constantly keeping relationships that we’ve developed with people over time and as you know A.J.
because you’ve been doing this as long as I have these come when they come.
And so we’re ready and waiting to allow these to be invite in share our thoughts and welcome them into the SCI family.
It just really hard to accelerable that action.
So I think you’ll see us do that for sure strategically.
I think you’ll see us in certain markets where we may have situations where it’s difficult to buy or we may look at expanding through a construction of new locations but again I would tell you that the significant cash flow that we’re generating is never going to be saturated by acquisition.
And so that’s why I think we begin to look and say strategically what should we be doing we know one thing particularly as these share prices buying ourselves back is a pretty good deal right now.
But we’re going to explore a variety of options but the short answer is yes we’re there.
I just don’t think it’s going to be significant enough to spend our money.
Okay.
All right thanks a lot.
The next question comes from John Ransom with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> Eric do you mind just recapping if you don’t mind the timing of cash flows for the next couple of quarters in terms of your divestiture expectations? When do you think you’re going to get the final cash back from the buyers of those assets? So you're asking the timing of the divestiture proceeds John? Inc.</strong>  Yes.
What I would say is I mean as Tom said it’s a process that we are trying to say to some degree is outside of our control.
And so it’s hard for us then to really describe what the timing is? I would tell you though we are far enough or long that we do expect the proceeds come in this quarter.
We haven’t received any as of now as of April but we would expect some to come in starting next month and a little bit heavier load in June.
And I do think that continues in July and continues in August.
We’re trying to step back and say what’s most important is: a) these proceeds are coming we are getting the deals that we are expected and we are very excited about that.
And the after-tax proceeds that we described to you all the way back in February continue to be sound in terms of that range.
And then secondly I would say as Tom mentioned just to reiterate it's coming in the summer and the fall but it's really not slowing us down John.
We have cash on hand of $150 million today.
We have liquidity with our credit facility.
We have free cash flow as robust that’s coming in.
So in terms of capital deployment we are very happy with that.
We would – but we do want it done by the early fall so we can use some of those incremental proceeds above what needed to go to the term loan as I just mentioned for capital deployment opportunities.
I think John one of the confusions out there is everybody knows that the first $200 million of our divestiture proceeds need to go to pay down debt and that is true.
So that is attached to the divestiture process.
It doesn’t mean you can’t spend money before that.
So that is not something we have to wait on to begin to deploy our capital allocation strategies just that the first two hundreds got to go there once you do it.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Is the gating issue anything beyond the FTC? I assume all the buyers have warned up their financing.
They should be able to move pretty expeditiously once they get through the FTC again? Or is there other thing to think about?  I think – no I think you’re exactly right.
The preponderance of these buyers are people you've heard of and know.
And so 80% 90% of it would be fully confident.
Obviously there's going to be some smaller transactions that could have some risks to approval and could have risk to financing but I would say they're de minimis.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And could you just – I know you guys have been on a journey with you're trust funds exploring monetization strategies and then maybe more recently you backing off from that thought process.
Could you just kind of recap where you are now in that journey? And what may still be possible? Again John I’d reiterate what I’ve said before.
We’re still looking at that I’d say the general statement I can tell you is this those trust funds legally are the customers not ours and I think that’s the one complicating factors to some of the things that I’ve heard spoken about outside the company.
So I think everybody need to keep that in mind the other thing that I think from a – just my perspective if you take money out of trust early they are not there when you want them later.
So anything that could be done albeit the short-term value creation.
It’s going to damage our results in future periods.
So I think there is – we’re looking at it hard but I’d tell you those are two things just from Tom’s perspective that that hit me when you think about trust funds.
Clearly we are going to be very efficient in the way that we fund and take moneys out but those are some complicating factors but we’re looking at everything like I said and we are not going to leave a stone on turn but we’re going to look at that versus other opportunity versus opportunity and again be in a position to some point to say what’s called play on one of these.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question is from Chris Rig with Susquehanna International Group.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I hopped on a little late so I apologize if this already been asked or you guys explained it but on the tax side when you think about where you could get from Stewart are we talking about sort of pushing out you guys becoming a full cash tax payer by a quarter or to or it could potentially be longer than that.
I think right now as we said we’re going to become from a run rate basis just think of it that way right Chris.
But this fall we are looking at becoming a full cash tax payer and that’s where we stand today with Stewart’s deferred tax asset and be able to utilize the acquired NOL associated with that acquisition.
As you know I just want to reiterate and you know our track record Chris you known us a long time.
We are consistently looking at ways to plan appropriately and reasonably in terms of deferring becoming a cash tax payer as long as we can and that continues today to look at other opportunities and other defining measures to defer.
But from a run rate basis as we’ve said we’ll be a full cash tax payer sometime late in 2014.
Okay all right.
And then just philosophically with regard to buybacks versus dividends obviously you’ve been pretty consistent in both areas and done a good job for investors but is there any thought about some more meaningful increase in the dividend given the payout ratios still relatively low?  Yeah I think the way we think about that at this point is it’s all relative to where your share price is trading.
And I think we think about it Chris we do value creation versus in the share repurchase where we are today.
The other issue is dividends you know this better than I do.
It’s very difficult to take the dividend backwards and so when you go out there with a heavy dividend it will limit your ability to be flexible for opportunistic things that we may want to take on.
So I think our strategy is let’s grow the dividend every year again with kind of our growth rate; and given expectation that that’s something that will continue to grow out in the future and at the same time kind of the excess funds it will lead to these price levels we’d be in a position to buy back more shares.
So it’s something we’ll look at but I think if you’re talking about a significant increase I don’t think that’s something that’s on the horizon for us.
Okay that’s all I have.
Thanks a lot.
The next question comes from Clint Fendley with NewBridge Group.
Please go ahead? Inc.</strong>  Thank you.
Good morning everyone; good results here.
I was wondering that the cremation rate spiked quite a bit and I’m wondering if your planned divestitures affected your mix here I know the legacy Stewart had a lower rate on the cremations.
Yeah I think the cremation increase was tied back to our growth in SCI Direct and [Audio Gap] Clint? Inc.</strong>  Yes.
Hello can you hear me? Okay I can hear you now.
So I think a lot of which you’re seeing in this growth rate is the success of particularly the historical success of the pre-need efforts of (indiscernible) and now we call SCI Direct.
Because if you look at they’re out there aggressively selling pre-needs and creating a backlog and if you look at that growth rate of what their pre-need is going at-need it’s a pretty significant growth rate.
So I think that is probably putting more pressure on the growth of our global cremation rate.
If we exclude that from let’s say the traditional SCI portfolio you would see nearly the growth rate that we’re experiencing.
Inc.</strong>  Okay that’s helpful.
And I’m wondering on the salesforce implementation just to be clear is this a company-wide implementation or are you just moving the legacy Stewart over to your systems? Well two things we’ve taken we were on HMIS and Stewart was on HMIS and we now what we’ve done is created a best practices at both I would say.
And as you think about compensation plan that we’re going to put together is kind of the same thing; we’re shifting systems we are shifting pay plans and I mentioned the lead management system salesforce.com and that’s dramatically different from both.
So that’s really what’s going on.
So not only are we bringing our Stewart team based on board but there is a little bit of change again for a legacy SCI management of legacy SCI sales force.
And again a lot of our on boarding process is about buddy system.
So don’t forget just because we are on boarding Steward employees that is a function of the SCI employee to help that Stewart employee in that area getting up to speed on the simplest thing to first of giving our email system having used this form.
So that’s what’s going on in our organization today and its all going to lead to a much better platform to grow the business.
So that hopefully help identify it is a company wide change in lot of these things.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And it’s on both the funeral and the cemetery segments then? You’re right.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And last question here and this may be a little bit less filled and may be the last thing you want to talk about after the last several months but I’m just wondering what your thoughts are on potentially any international acquisitions.
I know you guys both have direct experience here.
Do you see any opportunities here over the next several years? It’s definitely certain that we are exploring no doubt.
I think there is tremendous opportunity internationally.
I think it all boils down to optionality.
Like I said before we are evaluating a number of things that I think it takes the company in different types of directions and that’s definitely one that’s under study as we speak.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
We have no further questions at this time.
I’d like to turn the call back over to SCI management for closing remarks.
We want to thank everybody for joining us on the call today.
We look forward to speaking to you again in July when we report our second quarter results.
Thanks again.
Have a great week.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes the first quarter 2014 Service Corporation International earnings conference call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q2 2014 Service Corporation International earnings conference call.
My name is Adrian and I will be your operator for today's call.
(Operator Instructions) I'll now turn the call over to SCI management.
SCI management you may begin.
Good morning everyone.
This is Debbie Young Director of Investor Relations at SCI.
Thanks for joining us today as we discuss our results for the second quarter.
Before I turn the call over to Tom let me remind you that the comments made by our management team today will include statements that are not historical and are forward-looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections.
These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those factors identified in our press release and in our filings with the SEC that are available on our website.
In today's comments we may also refer to certain non-GAAP measurements such as normalized EPS adjusted operating cash flow and free cash flow.
Reconciliation of these measurements to the appropriate measures calculated in accordance with GAAP is provided on our website and in our press release and 8-K that were filed yesterday.
With that out of the way I'd like to now turn the call over to Tom Ryan SCI's President and CEO.
Thank you Debbie and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on the call today.
I'm going to begin my comments by giving you the highlights of the quarter.
Then I'll provide some details on the Stewart integration and synergies including for the first time our estimate of potential revenue synergies which we have previously not quantified.
These revenue synergies will be in addition to the $80 million of cost and purchasing synergies we've already discussed.
Finally I'll close by giving you some color on our outlook for the back half of 2014.
Beginning with an overview of the quarter we are very pleased to report normalized earnings per share of $0.23 which is an impressive 21% growth over the prior year and in line with internal expectations.
Adjusted operating cash flow also grew at solid 27% to approximately $98 million.
Our comparable SCI businesses particularly on the cemetery side had a strong performance during the quarter.
Additionally we benefited from the contribution of the Stewart acquisition which you'll recall we closed at the end of 2013.
Also during the quarter with our leverage back to below 4x we are extremely pleased to report that we returned to our share purchase program returning more than $59 million to repurchase approximately 3.1 million shares.
As it relates to the Federal Trade Commission divestiture process we are on track to close the majority of the divestitures over the next couple of months.
We closed on deals that generated more than $150 million of gross proceeds in the second quarter.
And finally during the quarter we closed on a large cemetery acquisition in New Castle Delaware.
And therefore we want to welcome Lee Hagenbach his team in Delaware our 44<sup>th</sup> state we now do business in to the SCI family.
Now for an overview of the funeral operations in the quarter.
Overall our comparable funeral segment which excludes Stewart performed very well and ended the quarter slightly ahead of our expectations.
When compared to the prior year second quarter funeral revenues grew by $2.4 million.
This increase in revenue is related to an 11% growth and recognized pre-need revenue from our SCI Direct businesses.
Remember this represents pre-need sales of products primarily earned kits and travel protection insurance that we are recognizing at the time of sale upon delivery.
Core funeral revenue excluding SCI Direct was flat as a 1.4% increase in the sales average help to offset a 1.3% decline in funeral volume.
From a profitability standpoint comparable funeral gross profits and the gross margin percentage grew slightly over the prior year quarter.
In addition to the contribution from SCI Direct that I just mentioned we continue to do a good job of managing our fixed cost.
On a pre-need basis funeral sales production was relatively flat in the quarter and lower than our internal model.
Recall last quarter we expected to have some temporary challenges as we integrated our Stewart businesses into our compensation plan and our point-of-sales system.
Funeral production however rebounded slower than cemetery production but in the month of June they hit stride with a 13.3% increase over June 2013 production.
With the majority of the heavy lifting of the pre-need sales integration behind us our expectation is to have high single-digit percentage growth in comparable pre-need funeral sales production in the second half of 2014.
Now let's talk about cemetery operations.
Our cemetery segment had an impressive performance in the quarter and came in above our expectations.
Comparable cemetery GAAP revenues excluding Stewart increased more than $13 million or 6.4% over the prior-year quarter.
Pre-need cemetery sales production outperformed the prior-year quarter by even more some 11.8%.
I was very proud of our team for achieving this growth in the midst of a complicated integration of the sales organizations processes and systems.
In the first six months of the year total cemetery pre-need production was up 4.6%.
As I just mentioned we believe most of the major integration milestones of our pre-need sales program are behind us.
Consequently we expect the momentum we experienced particularly in June in the pre-need sales area to continue into the second half of the year and expect to end the full year with high-single digit percentage growth over 2013.
Comparable cemetery profit increased $4 million in the quarter and the margin percentage grew 50 basis points to 22.2%.
While recognized revenue growth was impressive we still increased sales in the backlog some $7 million.
Keep in mind we're required under GAAP to recognize the selling cost in the current period putting pressure on second quarter margins.
However these circumstances bode well for us as we expect the $7 million to be recognized as revenues in the back half of 2014 as we complete construction of the cemetery property and collect on the deferred contracts with no corresponding selling costs incurred in the period.
Now let's shift to Stewart.
We are very pleased with the Stewart's businesses performance as they generated just under $105 million of revenues in the second quarter.
I would say the margins and sales averages are generally in line with our expectations.
Additionally you may have already seen in the earnings release that we are very pleased to have identified and develop plans to the attainment of revenue synergies.
Recall that we estimated our cost and purchasing synergies from the Stewart acquisition to be approximately $80 million.
We believe in addition to these cost-related synergies that we can achieve incremental revenue synergies which equates to approximately $20 million of additional EBITDA.
We believe we can generate incremental revenues and profits as we add new product and services to a legacy Stewart funeral offering such as catering and reception initiatives.
Second our average pre-need cemetery sales production at our SCI locations is higher than Stewart.
We believe we can close the gap over time through expanded property offerings strategic pricing and sales trend.
We expect to see some of the additional revenue synergies beginning to ramp up over the back half of 2014.
However we believe the majority of the synergies will be recognized in 2015.
With the additional revenue synergies this now brings our total estimated synergies from the Stewart acquisition to approximately $100 million of EBITDA.
This is a 66% increase over our original expectations at the time we announced the acquisition.
Further it comes close to doubling historical EBITDA of Stewart and highlights the incredible leverage we can achieve in a transaction of this magnitude.
This acquisition has been a big win for us and we're extremely proud to deliver this value to our shareholders.
Now to the outlook for the remainder of 2014.
We're excited about our performance thus far in the year with year-to-date normalized earnings per share growth of 8.5% to $0.51 per share.
On heels of this solid year-to-date performance the timing of the Stewart cost synergies impacting the back half of the year and the additional revenue synergies identified we are increasing our full year 2014 guidance for normalized earnings per share to a range of $1.08 to $1.12.
The midpoint of this new range represents a 20% increase from 2013 normalized earnings per share.
So to wrap it up and summarize despite the anticipated interruptions we had in the first half related to integration we believe the major milestones of the sales integration are now behind us.
This coupled with the current momentum of our sales force going into the back half of the year will allow us to generate impressive topline cemetery growth.
Additionally we continue to be enthusiastic about the profitable growth that the Stewart acquisition will contribute to 2014 and again in 2015 as the full weight of the synergies are realized which are now estimated at approximately $100 million of EBITDA.
And finally we expect to continue to generate strong cash flow which Eric is going to update you on shortly.
This cash flow along with anticipated divestiture proceeds expected in 2014 will allow us to be focused on capital deployment strategies designed to enhance shareholder value.
This concludes my prepared comments.
And I'll now turn the call over to Eric.
Good morning everybody.
I'm going to start this morning by commenting on our cash flow results for the quarter and our outlook for the remainder of 2014; then I'm going to touch on how we deployed our capital to enhance shareholder value during the quarter.
So let's start with our cash flow.
Our adjusted operating cash flow and just to remind you that excludes Stewart transition and other cost as we defined in our press release.
This adjusted operating cash flow grew an impressive $21 million or 27% in the second quarter to $98 million benefiting from incremental cash flows related to the addition of Stewart.
These results were ahead of our internal expectations primarily due to higher cemetery comparable pre-need sales production.
Adjusted operating cash flow was able to continue to grow even in the face of higher anticipated payments for both cash interest and cash taxes which collectively grew $19 million over the prior-year quarter.
Cash interest payments increased $11 million.
This was related to the incremental debt associated with the Stewart acquisition.
And cash tax payments increased $8 million and again both of these figures are in line with our internal expectations.
Maintenance and cemetery development CapEx for the quarter came in at approximately $28 million.
This was slightly lower than what we anticipated.
When you deduct these recurring CapEx items we calculate our free cash flow for the quarter to be $71 million or $19 million higher than the prior year and above our internal expectations.
Now I want to shift to the outlook as it relates to cash flow for the remainder of 2014.
At the midyear point adjusted cash flow from operation has grown $30 million or $13% totaling $262 million resulting from the earnings growth that Tom has just highlighted as well as improved collections on our pre-need sales.
Now looking at cash taxes I want to first mention what I said last quarter about our cash tax range.
I said further positive refinement of our cash tax assumptions from the Stewart acquisition will push us toward the lower-end of our cash tax range while stronger than expected operating performance will create higher taxable income and could push it to the high-end of our cash tax range.
So now as an update today.
We continued during this quarter working through more of the details associated with the Stewart acquisition which has generated positive refinements to our assumptions.
So we are now expecting our 2014 cash tax payment to decrease to a range of $40 million to $50 million from the $50 million to $60 million I mentioned last quarter.
We will continue to work hard to identify additional ongoing tax saving opportunities.
So based on these strong first half results and a reduction in our cash tax outlook I just mentioned we feel comfortable raising our 2014 guidance for adjusted cash flow from operations to a range of $475 million to $500 million.
Our new guidance range for adjusted cash flow at the midpoint equates to an 11% increase over 2013.
As a result of lower capital spending to date our recurring CapEx range is being reduced to $125 million to $135 million.
Both of these changes result in an updated 2014 free cash flow guidance range of $340 million to $375 million.
On a per share basis our free cash flow guidance range equates to $1.60 to $1.75 per share using a fully diluted weighted average share count of around 216 million shares.
We believe this represents a favorable high-single digit free cash flow yield.
Now I'd like to shift a little bit to the capital deployment as well as our financial position.
As I mentioned on our April call we intended to take a balanced approach in 2014 to deploying our capital.
I am happy to say we resumed our strategy of returning value to shareholder through share repurchases.
And as Tom mentioned in the second quarter we purchased about 3.1 million shares for a total investment of just under $60 million for an average price of just under $19.30.
We currently have about $130 million of board repurchase authorization remaining.
Our leverage which is calculated as net debt-to-EBITDA in accordance with our credit facility dropped from 3.95 at March 31 to 3.81 at June 30.
With this we have flexibility in making balanced capital allocation decisions in the back half of this year which includes our ability to continue these share repurchases.
During the quarter we also returned $17 million to shareholders through dividends which reflects the February increase of 14% in the dividend rate which is $0.08 per share per quarter.
As Tom noted earlier our FTC divestiture process continues to go well.
During the quarter we received approximately $120 million of net after-tax proceeds from divestitures associated with the Stewart acquisition.
And recall that the first $200 million of after-tax proceeds are required to reduce our term loan as stipulated by our bank credit agreements.
Therefore the estimated after-tax proceeds of $120 million were used to pay down the term loan during the quarter.
This leaves only $80 million of required term loan payments which we expect to complete during the third quarter.
I am also happy to say that due to further refinement of Stewart's location-specific tax information we are increasing the total estimated after-tax proceeds to be received in 2014 to $335 million to $360 million range which was previously $315 million to $340 million expectation that we communicated on the April call.
We also made our acquired amortization payment of $7.5 million in the second quarter on the term loan.
So all-in-all this leaves our term loan with a balance of $465 million down from the original $600 million balance.
Additionally during the quarter we took advantage of the current historic low interest rate environment and we managed our near-term debt maturity profile refinancing our 2015 and 2019 notes along with the legacy Stewart 2019 notes through the issuance of a $550 million note due 2024 and a $95 million revolver drop.
This transaction not only reduces our cash interest by $8 million annually but also pushes our next significant debt maturity to April 2016 giving us a favorable debt maturity profile.
We also continue to have very robust liquidity of about $373 million at June 30 which consist of $140 million of cash on hand and $233 million of availability on our long-term credit facility.
So in conclusion we are proud of our first half of the year.
And looking forward we are excited about the remainder of 2014 as we move forward with robust liquidity a favorable debt maturity profile and strong cash flow coupled with the expected divestiture proceeds which allows us to be able to deploy our capital in a way that will create long-term value for our shareholders.
Our number one priority though continues to remain to ensure that we effectively and efficiently complete the integration of the Stewart acquisition and achieve our new robust synergy targets.
So with that operator that concludes my remarks and Thomas' remarks.
And we'd like to now turn the call over for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And we have A.J.
Rice from UBS on line with a question.
Maybe a few questions if I could ask.
First of all just to try to make I understand the comments about obviously the good performance in the cemetery particularly in the pre-need production area.
Is that 11.8% is that legacy SCI or is that the entire business? A.J.
that is legacy SCI pre-need production.
So keep in mind there is a component of pre-need and then there is an at-need production for cemetery.
So it will grow more like funeral revenue it's kind of slightly flat or slightly up or down.
So 11.8% is pre-need comparable businesses.
And then to think about that as on the Stewart side I'm assuming that there is probably not much growth right now as you're going through integration process but you made some comments about the back half of the year.
Do you think that the pre-need production side when you -- on the legacy Stewart side you'll start to be able to grow that in the back half of the year? We do A.J.
And again I don't have the numbers in front me.
My memory is the first quarter was down for sales for Stewart and we actually saw some cemetery production growth in the Stewart business within the second quarter.
Again I attribute a lot of that to just change management all the integration learning new processes systems products.
So I really think we already have momentum to grow the back half of the year on Stewart.
The incremental piece that we are talking about gets to availability of a breadth of product in cemeteries associated with the appropriate tier pricing which again is our strategic pricing model.
And then our ability to sell that that kind of incremental growth that is beyond what I think we could do is probably more of a 2015 issue but we maybe begin to see that regionally in the back half of the year.
I don't know if there was number of one-time items that I know you're singling out and obviously should.
Are we pretty much down with the Stewart integration costs the systems integration costs the deal cost or is there some residual cash outlay in the third quarter that the company will have to make around these things? Well on the deal costs I think we are pretty much done.
We've refinanced the converts and have the capital structure done but in terms of the integration cost no.
There will be more looking forward.
And as the synergies rise remember they have risen up to $60 million to $100 million.
It costs money from an integration standpoint cash outflows to achieve those synergies.
So no I don't think we're done.
And I think we have more to go.
Not at the levels that you've seen through the first half of the year but maybe more like 25% to 50% a-quarter to half of the levels that you've seen so far year-to-date A.J.
And then it's obviously interesting that in the midst of all this you were able to pull-off an acquisition in Delaware.
Is the company actively out there looking for one of those family opportunities to smaller opportunities? And what does the pipeline look like? I'd say right now the pipeline looks really good.
I rarely see John talk anymore he's traveling all the time out there beating the bushes.
So I would tell you from feedback from John that we're seeing a lot of activity and again it maybe pent up activity because of us and Stewart kind of being out in the market for the last year-and-a-half.
So we're excited about that.
I don't know how long it will last but we're actually talking to quite a few folks and looking at quite a few sets of numbers.
And the pricing is consistent with some of your other recent smaller deals? I think that's safe to say yes.
And our next question comes from Bob Willoughby from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
You touched on just about everything here.
It seems like you're hitting on all cylinders frankly but just how much upside stem from holding on to some of those divested assets maybe a bit longer.
What exactly falls out of the model sequentially from a maybe revenue and EBITDA standpoint? Well I don't have revenue in front of me but I think EBITDA Bob is probably close to $4 million from an EBITDA perspective.
That was with all of them in there.
So you compare that back up against your lost use of those funds so it is accretive to hold them longer.
That's not our intention.
We'd like to -- again I think these businesses are better in the hands of the long-term owners than they are of temporary owners.
So we're moving as quickly as we can.
But to your point it's not hurting us from a financial perspective.
And just you mentioned that there is a lower CapEx number out there.
What anecdotally isn't being investment what drove that? We had some numbers in there in terms of maintenance CapEx for the Stewart facilities and those continue but I think our original guidance is probably little bit on the conservative side based on the quality of assets that Stewart has during the acquisition.
I think that was primarily kind of the change.
It's not much of a change 135-ish down to 125-ish.
So we're still going to spend the capital to get it to the Dignity Memorial standards but the locations are in pretty good shape.
As we said all along the Stewart assets are just great assets.
And you did surprise me with the share repurchase in the second quarter $59 million it's a big number.
I mean what's a share repo run rate going forward for you? We'll have to evaluate that in terms of the free cash flow yield in our different metrics but generally what you saw us do in the second quarter is kind of our opinion.
And we have the liquidity.
We have the favorable debt maturity profile.
And so you'll probably see us stay on that same path during the back half of the year Bob.
And our next question comes from John Ransom from Raymond James.
Well everybody got to ask all the good questions so I am reduced to just thinking about your overall ASP.
It's a little bit complicated blending the Stewart into the Service Corp and then thinking about the backlog.
But if we were to think about the two to three year trend in ASP how would you help us think about that particularly on the funeral side? You're talking about the walk-in average or the pre-need backlog John? I'm talking about blending pre-need and at-need your overall realized revenue for funeral including what you bought in your backlog? I think the way we think about it is this on the at-need side we believe every year again it kind of ties back into what's going on in inflation.
But we feel pretty confident that we can experience somewhere in the neighborhood of 2% to 3% increases in average sale.
Now what ends up happening is you've got a cremation mix change that's going to knock that down to probably somewhere between 1.5 to 2 on a blended basis as the way we think about modeling forward.
The nice surprise to me is that I think is changing now and this would exclude obviously SCI Direct but if you take the non-core backlog the core backlog for the first time this year I believe the pre-need coming out of the backlog is actually higher than the at-need.
It's taken a while to catch up for a variety of reasons but our expectation is that pre-need backlog growth will actually grow at a higher clips.
And again we've already got the mix baked into it right so that will actually be a little more of a tailwind for us as we think about two to three to five years out.
And then you add on top of that a one-time $20 million reset for Stewart or is $20 million just getting started? Is there more to do down the road other than the $20 million? Well remember the $20 million EBITDA and remember the $20 million is a mix between funeral and cemetery so as we think about the impact of the two we actually believe that the cemetery side will be more impactful on EBITDA growth the opportunities there than the funeral side.
You said it there John the average Stewart location wasn't as high an average as us.
Now some of that's geographic.
But again we think some of that is product mix that we sell a higher breadth of product and services and options which again it can be done through packaging it can be done through sales training.
So we do believe that we'll begin to close that GAAP predominantly related to additional products and services.
And then my other question is I know you are a metric-driven guy.
How real-time do you think you get market share information by market? And how would you look at your market share gains or losses and I know you focus more on the top call it 60% 70% of the market but how do you think your market share has progressed? And do you think that will -- what do you think the trends look like going out? John I guess first of all we don't give perfect market share data it doesn't exist.
We have CDC data that's really not very timely.
So on a local market basis everybody that runs a market has their version of market share and they report to us and I realize when you self-report it isn't always the same isn't always objective.
I would tell you and again this is Tom's opinion so there will be people who may differ on this.
In 2004 '05 I think it was more in '05 I guess it was in 2005 we switch from term putting more emphasis on service and recognizing that in our pricing strategies versus product.
And again this was done based upon a strategic analysis that we did.
We lost the market share I would say in the lower price points.
And so we've been more competitive as it relates to like you said a customer that's willing to spend for services and products that we're really good at delivering at.
So we clearly lost some market share back then but again I'd say it wasn't the most profitable part of our business.
Then as we began to look at strategically why can't we compete more effectively again at that lower price point.
That's when we decided to eventually go to Neptune acquisition.
And we competed more aggressively in that price-sensitive consumer but through the pre-need model not so much to the at-need model.
So I would argue that we may still lose a slight bit of market share of customers that are going down in certain markets.
And again this is a geographic mix so some times we're up some times we're down and we're actually more price competitive in the arena of that that I would call the price-sensitive cremation consumer.
And I think over time we're going to gain share because we are the best pre-need seller in that segment.
The other thing I would argue is to we're the best pre-need seller in all segments and I think we're growing backlog by what we're putting in the pre-need bucket there and I also believe the demographics will begin to move our way.
As we look at into the Harvard study in how we evaluate markets we know that our consumers have access to healthcare quality healthcare and probably have more of an extension on life than some of the other markets some of those segments that we aren't as pronounced in.
So that again is a deferral and at some point it's going to turn.
So we got a lot of belief that our market share should begin to move the other way not aggressively but in acknowledgement that maybe in years past we've lost a slight bit of share in certain markets.
And then lastly any update you were talking about in terms of your tax mitigation/efforts to look at those efforts.
I'm not asking the question where do not mean that.
You've looked at read out data you've looked at a number of things is there any thing worth reporting on that front? Really not in a position yet John to report on that.
It continues to be under study.
And I'll just remind everybody the lens that we'll evaluate these options through.
One reputation in our communities and with our families is incredibly important to us particularly in the business as emotional as ours.
So I'll just remind you that anything we do will be first and foremost in our client families minds lined up with what's right for that business.
Also our ability to execute our operational growth strategies we're excited about what we think we can achieve over the next few years.
So any strategy would have to give us some assurance that we'll continue to be able to execute and do that.
And finally it's really about value creation for our long-term shareholder who will be with us post-transaction.
And that's the way the lens that we're going to look at everything that we do.
Also we've got to evaluate things like break-up fees and taxable events we've got very low basis assets.
So there're a lot of things to look at and consider.
We're still in the midst of that.
We're a lot further along than we were last time we talked to you but really nothing new to report other than that.
And our next question comes from Duncan Brown from Wells Fargo.
Just wanted to go back to something you said earlier in connection with the EBITDA associated with assets to be divested.
That $4 million number does that represent assets that there was $4 million of EBITDA contribution in the current quarter? Yes.
It's $4 million in month in this current quarter.
Now remember that get smaller and smaller as we sell things off.
So probably what's left Duncan maybe the run rate of the assets are less more like $2.5 million for a total of 40% of it.
But that is you are correct in the way you're thinking about it.
And then on the synergy front.
The original or the second conversion $80 million of cost synergies how much is in the current run rate? We expect to have about half of that in 2014.
And the reality of it is the first chunk of it really didn't come until during this quarter around May of the month when we really made some significant milestones associated with the integration.
So not very much is the answer to your question.
And then just lastly from me.
Maybe going back to pre-need funeral sales production is the right way to think about it that sort of the slowdown there is in your view entirely related to integration issues or is there anything else worth mentioning there? It's probably related to integration issues.
Again I will remind you that the average pre-need funeral customers are in their early 70s and so you really haven't seen the baby boomer impacting that business like you would in cemetery.
But additionally Duncan I'm glad you mentioned it.
Funeral probably has a few more distracting issues than the cemetery side and it's related to the new products and the training around them.
We also had some changes to our insurance sales policies and when we recognize commissions and how we deal with eminent death type of situations with that.
And also if you recall Stewart use Forethought as their insurance provider and we use Assurant.
And we currently are using both of those products and it's on a geographic mix I think that created a little bit of I'd say of a slowdown or confusion.
So those things are done now they're integrated.
And so we feel like the back half of the year we ought to be getting back to levels that we can all be excited about.
And our next question comes from Chris Rigg from Susquehanna International.
This is Frank Lee on for Chris.
Would you be able to provide any color on the piece of earnings in the last two quarters of the year? And is the revenue and cost synergies that will hit in 2014 will those be balance across the last half of the year or will those predominantly fall in the fourth quarter? We think on the synergy front obviously as the year goes further the more.
So you're going to get a bigger pop in the fourth quarter but I'd also say the third quarter will be meaningful.
But I think again like you're pointing out is it'd be weighted to that fourth quarter as far as synergies go.
And Frank just to be clear what Tom is just referring to correctly is on the cost synergy side because you actually mentioned revenues as well.
Revenues are stuff that we've just now are starting to identify.
So not much of that probably built into the models in '14 that's really more of a 2015 situation as we go to achieve the full our $100 million run rate.
And I will now turn the call back over to SCI management.
Thank everybody for being on the call today.
We appreciate the time and the questions.
And we look forward to talking to you again in October.
Take care.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
And you may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 Service Corporation International Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Brandon and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
And I will now turn it over to SCI management.
You may now begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking time to join us today as we discuss our results for the third quarter.
This is Debbie Young from Investor Relations at SCI.
As usual I'll begin the call with our customary Safe Harbor language.
The comments made by our management team will include statements that are not historical and are forward-looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections.
These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those factors identified in our press release and in our filings with the SEC that are available on our Web-site.
In today's comments we may also refer to certain non-GAAP measurements such as normalized EPS adjusted operating cash flow and free cash flow.
Reconciliation of these measurements to the appropriate measures calculated in accordance with GAAP is provided on our Web-site and in our press release and 8-K that were filed yesterday.
Alright so let's get started now with comments from Tom Ryan SCI's President and CEO.
Thank you Debbie and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on the call today.
I'm going to begin my comments by giving you the overview of the quarter followed by a preliminary outlook for 2015.
So beginning with an overview of the quarter we're very pleased to report normalized earnings per share of $0.23 for the quarter which is an impressive 28% growth over the prior year and in line with our internal expectations.
Adjusted operating cash flow exceeded our expectations by growing a solid 21% to $123.2 million.
Our comparable funeral business performed extremely well during the quarter delivering a 16.8% increase in profit which exceeded our expectations.
Our comparable cemetery business also performed well during the quarter delivering an 8.3% increase in profit but fell slightly below our expectations.
Additionally we benefited from the contribution of the Stewart business which performed slightly below our expectations.
However we did accelerate the impact of feed deal synergies beyond what we had anticipated for the quarter.
Also during the quarter we continued with our share repurchase program investing approximately $70 million to repurchase 3.2 million shares.
And finally we are pleased to report that our Federal Trade Commission divestiture process associated with the Stewart acquisition is substantially complete and the proceeds were in line with our expectations.
Eric will talk more about this shortly.
Now to an overview of funeral operations for the quarter.
Overall our comparable funeral segment which excludes Stewart performed very well and ended the quarter ahead of our expectations.
When compared to the prior year third quarter funeral revenues grew by $9.3 million or 2.4%.
$6.1 million of the $9.3 million was core revenue growth which is driven by the slight increase in same-store funeral services performed and a 1.5% increase in the sales average.
We also recognized a $2.2 million or 11.5% growth in recognized preneed revenue primarily from our SCI direct business.
Recall that this represents preneed sale of products that are delivered concurrently with the preneed sales.
From a profitability standpoint we managed our cost well during the quarter leading to a growth in comparable funeral gross profits of $10.9 million or 16.8%.
The gross margin percentage improved 240 basis points to 19.1% in the current quarter.
The natural leveraging of the overhead support cost as well as lower selling cost associated with the new sales compensation policy for terminally imminent preneed sales also improved gross margins.
The Stewart funeral businesses performed in line with our expectation from a profitability standpoint as moderate declines in case volume were essentially offset by average revenue per case increases which bring the average to approximately $4 800 within $500 of our SCI comparable average.
As you'll recall from our last discussion preneed funeral sales production is undergoing numerous changes including a realignment of sales territories to best match our new geographic footprint introduction of a modified sales compensation plan implementation of a new CRM system and renewal of an enhanced American Memorial Life Insurance general agency agreement.
One of the most significant changes from negotiating the renewal of the American Memorial Life agreement was the policy for handling terminally imminent client situations.
A terminally imminent contract is where family chooses to make arrangements several weeks or a few months in advance of need and until late May of this year these arrangements were conducted exclusively by a preneed counsellor.
We paid our sales counsellors for making these arrangements although at a reduced rate.
AML has never paid us a standard general agency commission but they still incur costs for issuing a life insurance policy for these short-term arrangements.
Terminally imminent contracts have historically represented 16% to 18% of our preneed funeral sales production and as we were negotiating more favorable general agency rates American Memorial Life pushed back us to deal with this administrative burden that they were bearing.
So beginning in late May we instituted a new policy for serving customers in terminally imminent situation which was a best practice for Stewart's that we adopted.
We began transitioning this type of consumer in key markets from the preneed counsellor to a funeral director.
We further reduced the sales compensation associated with this customer to accommodate this change.
This will have the effect of reducing our cost focusing the counsellor on working true preneed sales opportunities and putting our most experienced funeral professionals in front of our families that are dealing with an imminent death.
The effect of this shift has improved the profits of our funeral business but reduced the preneed sales production as historically reported as now the associated revenues are accounted for as at-need business.
Therefore we believe that providing the sales production excluding imminent contracts is a better reflection of our true preneed production activities.
Preneed sales production excluding imminent for the quarter was $158.3 million or an increase of $2.9 million or 1.9%.
For the nine months ended September 30 sales production was $475.3 million up some $17 million of production or 3.7%.
Now let's talk about cemetery operations.
Comparable cemetery GAAP revenue excluding Stewart increased $10.7 million or 5.2%.
Preneed cemetery sales production increased $7.3 million or 5.6% over the prior year quarter but only $4.8 million of that $7.3 million was recognized in GAAP income as more sales production was deferred into the backlog.
In addition at-need cemetery production increased some $2.3 million or 4.2%.
Additionally trust fund income increased $3.1 million for the quarter.
This was predominantly due to higher volume of matured preneed contracts and a slightly higher compounded embedded return.
Comparable cemetery profits increased $4 million in the quarter and the margin percentage grew 70 basis points to 24.1%.
This occurred as a result of our revenue growth offset by higher selling and lead procurement costs associated with increased sales production some of which was related to revenues that were deferred while the costs were expensed.
Reported results from the Stewart cemetery businesses were below our expectations.
While pre-cemetery sales production was very solid a significant portion of the increase was deferred for GAAP purposes.
Additionally the process of delivery of merchandise and certain property both on a physical and administrative basis was not consistently applied.
This resulted in a slight revenue shortfall.
We have instituted retraining in certain geographies associated with these activities and expect them to be remedy during the fourth quarter.
Now looking ahead to 2015 I believe we are well-positioned to deliver solid results.
In addition to SCI core business growth we expect to realize the additional benefit from the full run rate of identified cost synergies associated with the Stewart transaction as well as certain revenue synergies.
Our preliminary earnings per share guidance range of $1.16 to $1.28 and at the midpoint represents an increase of 11% from the expected 2014 earnings per share guidance.
We expect to achieve this growth even as we overcome losing about $0.08 per share from 2014 contribution from the Federal Trade Commission mandated divested businesses.
Just to give you a little more color on the broad assumptions regarding 2015 first for funeral we believe comparable funeral revenues will be slightly higher reflecting some modest growth opportunities from our Stewart businesses.
We expect to continue to grow the sales average in the low single-digit percentage range which will help to offset our expectations of comparable funeral volume declines.
Additionally we would expect higher recognized preneed revenues as our direct cremation business continues to grow.
We will continue to focus on growing our preneed backlog which we believe is the most advantageous approach to expanding market share over the long term.
Although we have experienced normal integration distractions in 2014 I believe we are well-situated for growing preneed sales production in 2015.
Our early preneed growth expectation for 2015 is in the low to mid single-digit percentage range excluding terminally imminent contracts.
On the cemetery side we anticipate that revenues will continue to increase in the mid single-digit range led by preneed production growth in the mid to high single-digit range.
We consider this growth to be extremely positive and the attainment of this growth is on a significantly higher base of business due to the recent double-digit growth over the last few years and therefore equates to a much higher absolute growth in sales production.
Preneed sales growth will continue to be driven by expansion of our sales force primarily in the family service team or inside sales while we continue to enhance the productivity and effectiveness of our preplanning advisor or outside sales team throughout the remainder of 2015.
We also expect to benefit from the utilization of our new CRM system Salesforce.com.
Segment margins will be impacted by the traditional inflationary cost in our business but we have a track record of minimizing that impact through our focus on standardized metrics and a continuous improvement culture.
And finally expect corporate G&amp;A to be about $30 million to $32 million per quarter excluding one-time costs.
The higher corporate G&amp;A costs reflects the permanent costs associated with the increased scale of the combined entity which now includes the Stewart businesses.
So to wrap it up and summarize we had a great quarter and delivered solid growth in both earnings per share and cash flow.
We've had a very busy year thus far.
Despite the expected distractions we have had this year related to the Stewart integration and the sales force changes I am very pleased with where the Company is positioned today.
Our 2014 success would not have been possible without the hard work and dedication of our entire 23 000 person team all rowing in the same direction and getting us through these critical milestones all the while continuing to provide extraordinary service to our client families.
Lastly as you can see from our 2015 outlook I believe we are well-positioned to deliver solid growth in shareholder value in 2015.
This concludes my prepared comments and I'll now turn it over to Eric.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
I'm going to start by commenting on our stronger than expected cash flow results for the quarter as well as our expectations for the remainder of the year then I'm going to discuss our focused capital deployment to enhance shareholder value during the quarter and then finally I'll end with some color on our cash flow outlook as we move forward into 2015.
So starting with cash flow our adjusted operating cash flow and I'll remind you that excludes Stewart transition and other costs as defined in our press release this cash flow grew $21 million or more than 20% in the third quarter to a total amount of $123 million.
These results were ahead of our internal expectations primarily due to our strong preneed cash proceeds.
Growth in adjusted operating cash flow was achieved despite higher anticipated payments for cash interest and cash taxes which collectively grew more than $17 million over the prior year quarter.
Specifically cash interest payments increased $13.9 million related to incremental debt associated with the Stewart acquisition and our recurring cash tax payments increased $3.4 million which was in line with our guidance as well as our expectations.
Our maintenance and cemetery development CapEx for the quarter came in at approximately $37 million.
This was slightly lower than our expectations but higher than prior year by approximately $9 million which reflects our incremental investment in our Stewart properties.
Deducting these recurring CapEx items we calculate our free cash flow for the third quarter to be almost $89 million or about $13 million or 17% higher than the prior year.
This again exceeded our internal expectations.
In the first nine months of the year adjusted cash flow from operations has increased $51 million or 15% to a total amount of $385 million.
While we are comfortable with our current adjusted cash flow guidance range of $475 million to $500 million for 2014 I do believe we will more likely end the year at the upper end of this range.
So going back to the midpoint of the range the guidance range for 2014 adjusted cash flow from operations equates to just under an 11% increase over 2013.
Our recurring CapEx guidance range is $125 million to $135 million and all of this results in a 2014 free cash flow guidance range of $340 million to $375 million.
As I stated above for adjusted cash flow from operations we are more comfortable with the upper end of this free cash flow range for 2014.
So now let me shift to our financial position and I'll talk about capital deployment as well.
During the third quarter we continued our strategy of returning capital to our shareholders through both share repurchases and dividends.
In the third quarter we repurchased 3.2 million shares for a total investment of almost $70 million.
Now subsequent though to the third quarter we have repurchased an additional 1.8 million shares for a total investment of $38 million.
So in total this brings our total shares repurchased this year to a total of 8.1 million shares for almost $167 million investment.
So currently we have approximately 207 million shares outstanding.
As Tom noted earlier our FTC divestiture process is now substantially complete.
Total after-tax proceeds from the FTC sales associated with the Stewart acquisition were approximately $210 million during the quarter which was in line with our guidance communicated to you in July.
We do expect to pay a tax payment of about $45 million in the fourth quarter from these divestiture proceeds.
Now recall that the first $200 million of these after-tax proceeds were required to reduce our term loan as stipulated by our bank credit agreement.
In the second quarter we reduced the term loan by $120 million and then in the third quarter we were able to pay off the remaining $80 million due from these proceeds.
After these required payments and the quarterly amortization payments as well the term loan has a current balance of just over $375 million from the original $600 million term loan amount.
During the quarter we also raised our quarterly dividend 12.5% to $0.09 per share returning $19 million to shareholders through dividends.
This increase is the second over the last 12 months marking an almost 30% increase in our dividend.
Finality in terms of capital deployment we completed two Canadian acquisitions during the quarter for a total investment of just over $3 million.
So now turning to our financial position we continue to have very robust liquidity of approximately $500 million at the end of the quarter consisting of the cash balance of about $266 million and $233 million of availability on our credit facility.
Our leverage ratio which we calculate as net debt-to-EBITDA in accordance with our credit facility definition drove below 3.7x to 3.68x as of September 30.
This is within our current targeted range of 3.6x to 3.7x.
Also being below 3.75x gives us additional flexibility in deploying capital and buying back our shares under the terms of our credit agreement.
And as we have mentioned before just to be clear we are comfortable at these leverage levels compared to our historically lower leverage levels due to our resilient free cash flow stream our strong liquidity and of course our favorable debt maturity profile.
So now I'm going to shift to 2015 in 2015 we expect our operating cash flows to be in the range of $425 million to $475 million.
Our higher cash flow growth from our underlying funeral and cemetery operations will be more than offset by higher anticipated cash tax payments.
And as I have mentioned several times previously we anticipated that we will become a full federal cash tax payer in 2015.
As a result our guidance range for cash flow is based on a current preliminary estimate that cash taxes will grow to approximately $145 million to $165 million in 2015.
This compares to our 2014 normalized cash tax payments that we currently expect to be at approximately $40 million and by the way we have already paid that amount through year-to-date third quarter.
The increase results in $105 million to $125 million more in cash taxes expected during 2015.
Now we will of course continue to look for ways to minimize this impact as we have done in recent years but we do recognize the increase in cash taxes will temporarily limit our historical rise in cash flow.
Looking beyond 2015 though and looking to 2016 we remain confident that we will be able to perpetuate the cash flow growth we have delivered in the past after absorbing this one-time effect of becoming a full cash tax payer.
As it relates to our provision for income taxes within our income statement we expect to have an effective tax rate of approximately 38% to 39% in 2015.
And lastly related to 2015 our capital spending for maintenance and cemetery development is expected to range from $130 million to $140 million which is slightly higher than our expected spend in 2014.
So in conclusion we are excited about our 2015 outlook.
Although our free cash flow temporarily dips in 2015 due to the effect of cash taxes we still expect to generate abundant cash flow that will allow us to continue to deliver significant value to our shareholders.
After estimated dividend payments in 2015 of around $80 million we will still have substantial cash flow remaining to continue to pursue our strategy of tuck-in acquisitions share repurchases or other strategic options.
We continue to have a healthy balance sheet and capital structure and tremendous liquidity all of which adds to our flexibility to pursue opportunities that we believe will yield value for our shareholders and our Company.
So with that operator that concludes Tom and my prepared remarks and we're now ready to turn the call over to questions.
(Operator Instructions) From UBS we have A.J.
Rice on the line.
Please go ahead.
Maybe first just a point of clarification to Eric's comments on divestiture.
So $0.08 of EPS headwind can you give us a sense of how much revenues are represented from those divestitures? The contribution in the first – in 2014 A.J.
is probably close to call it $28 million of EBITDA maybe approaching $30 million.
So if I back into revenues I'm probably getting close to $100 million of revenue.
That's the way to think about that.
Okay.
And then obviously I understand the terminally imminent change it makes a lot of sense can you give us a sense of how much benefit that might actually be for you and then if you incorporated that in your guidance and then is there any backlash or – I mean I assume the sales force was not happy about the commission impact how are you managing that? I think A.J.
we choose to look at it from a positive because I think it was really about taking care of these families number one and what we wanted to do is we wanted to provide our sales force ways where they can go out and [radiate] (ph) true preneed business.
So we view this as kind of a win-win-win first being we've got a very caring professional that we're handing these people over they've been taken care of before but these are folks that are really good at dealing with death upon us or as [indiscernible].
So the customers are being handled very well.
Secondly we are freeing up our sales force to get work released which generate higher commissions and compensations for them and so that's obviously a very powerful thing.
And then like you said we have been burying and again you'd have to estimate the cost but about half of the compensation level so call it a 7% to 8% burden of the face amount in making those arrangements and paying the counsellors to sit down and take the time to do that.
And so that may be now down to call it 2% or 3% based upon the new flow.
So you're right I think as it relates specifically to this business and we even saw it in the quarter you should reduce cost to some extent if you annualize this probably $4 million or $5 million year-over-year.
Now having said that I think there's another important thing to say though.
Because we're freeing up time for the sales counsellors our hope is that we are going to generate more business which is going to be at full compensation levels and so you really got to kind of break it down but we'd like to see the compensation go way up.
So that's our anticipation but in your specific instance I think you're right there's probably call it annualized $3 million or $4 million or $5 million type of savings.
Okay.
And then Eric I know that you laid out the guidance I just was curious I think you've done a little better or you've raised synergy guidance several times this year maybe some of that synergy is accelerated into this year from last year is there any way to call out somehow embedded in your guidance what's the step-up from this year to next year in synergy? At one point I think though we were looking at about $50 million to $55 million being picked up next year in incremental synergies.
Is that somehow shifted a little bit or any thoughts about that? It has shifted A.J.
I think that's a fair point that you're making.
As we up the guidance from the original level up to the $100 million including revenue synergies we also made a lot of traction on the integration this year probably a little bit quicker than what we originally talked about.
So originally it was half and half it was supposed to be about $30 million that were going to hit 2014.
I think it's higher than that by about $10 million to $15 million.
So that therefore reduced your $55 million by about $10 million to $15 million.
So the incremental step-up is probably in the let's call it $40 million to $45 million range as you look at it that way as you just described and it's not that the synergies aren't there it's exactly what you described some of the acceleration is in 2014 and we'll get the full amount in 2015 but less will be the step-up because of the acceleration in '14.
Okay alright I'll pass on to others to ask more questions.
Thanks a lot.
From Susquehanna International we have Chris Rigg on the line.
Please go ahead.
Just on the Stewart business sounds like you're seeing some volatility there.
I was just hoping you could give a sense whether you think you've got your arms around that and maybe just sort of describe some of those issues if you could? Sure Chris.
I think there really isn't I'd say a lot of volatility.
I'm trying to address break it into funeral and cemetery.
I think funeral is looking good.
We are seeing some increases in average revenue per case due to our expanded kind of product offerings and widening out what we can put in front of client families.
We have seen a little bit of loss of volume to compensate for that but generally we're in line with expectation when you think of funeral.
So now let's shift over to cemetery side.
One of the things we said is we thought over a longer period of time we would be able to ramp up production on the Stewart operation.
So remember there's three components to that.
There is the taking the existing inventory within the cemeteries and broadening the base if you will of tiering the product; secondarily pricing that new tiered product; and third selling that product.
So the real impact of that as it relates to property we wouldn't have anticipated until 2015 some even moving to 2016 depending on how quickly we can get construction underway.
The good news is on the cemetery side our production is up in Stewart and a lot of what it is is selling items that are not recognizable today.
So our production is actually up about 10% to 11% but basically none of that drops to the bottom line because it's in the deferred bucket.
The second item that I talked about again kind of briefly mentioned relates to recognition of when we can recognize property merchandise and I didn't want to get into it because it's a little bit complicated but cemetery is more difficult than funeral.
So we have to physically deliver what we are doing and then we have to go deliver that item in the system and you can imagine that is a very different revenue recognition policy than Stewart had before and different processes to go through.
And so as we trained on the integration as you do with anything sometimes it [sticks] (ph) but sometimes it doesn't some areas had better training and some areas didn't and we need to go back and refresh that training that's a normal process of any integration.
So what we found is there were things that weren't being recognized because of either physical or administrative delivery that we are now going back to making sure the records reflect that.
So that is something that we are absolutely positive it's going to be fixed we believe it's probably going to be fixed in the fourth quarter and so we look at that as kind of an interim slip if you will that's a normal part of any integration.
So we feel good about where we are.
The real list I think is as we think about hopefully differentiation on the Stewart properties will come with property production increases which will be followed by construction of available inventory pricing it appropriately and into driving those sales and the new compensation system with a new lead management system customer relationship management.
So a lot of things to stay [graced over] (ph) but we feel very confident about what we're going to be able to do in the coming years.
Okay great.
And then just on the buybacks I don't think you have them in your guidance and then more importantly – and this is guidance for '15 – when I look at the last time you guys did sort of an accelerated repurchase program it was in the immediate afterwards of Alderwoods and you've got 260 somewhat million of cash already in the balance sheet plus what you're going to generate over the next 12 to 18 months.
Can you give us sort of your latest thinking on sort of the pace of buybacks over the next year or so? I think the way to think about it this way Chris is I think the midpoint of the 2015 free cash flow guidance is about $315 million.
We've got an $80 million worth of dividend we are going to do.
We'll do somewhere we believe between $50 million and $100 million in acquisitions and again we just don't know right we hope there's more of them because they're great internal rates of return when they become available and the balance of those two – and again kind of using my math at the high end of the acquisition I would say we've got somewhere in the neighborhood of $140 million of free cash flow if we get those acquisitions plus your $260 million.
We like to maintain about $100 million in cash Eric mentioned that we've got $45 million tax payment.
So as I think about the probability is we're going to spend somewhere around $250 million give or take on share repurchases over the next year.
And I think to use your terminology we've never done accelerated share repurchase we just had a lot of cash after the Alderwoods deal.
And so we believe we can do this without an accelerated share repurchase be opportunistic when the stock drops and buy more because again we have such a high level of confidence about where this Company is going in the future.
So we'll take advantage of dips and we'll buy more and we'll dial it back as things come closer to fair value which is we believe a ways away at this point.
Okay and just on what's assumed for next year in the EPS? I think it would be helpful for everybody if you take this year's $1.10 okay and now back out $0.08 that we've identified for you that was contributions from businesses that aren't there anymore.
Now we're sitting at again I'm doing this from my head $1.02.
The midpoint of our guidance is showing you $0.20 of improvement so call it 20%.
$0.12 of that synergies if you again say computing what Eric just said $40 million to $45 million that implies an additional $0.08 of improvement beyond the synergies.
So knock yourself out and let's pretend that the core grows at 6%.
We're going to get an additional $0.02 because we paid down $200 million in debt required [so even if it is] (ph) 2% debt so give us $0.01 for that and then give us a couple of pennies on share buyback because we're going to have incremental share buyback '15 over '14.
Now we're sitting at $1.20 $1.30.
Now knock it down $0.01 for an increased tax rate that's identified.
There's your midpoint.
So the real question is will we grow the quarter at 6% or grow the quarter at 8% grow the quarter at 10% that's what we've got to figure out and again we try to give a wide range of guidance because we can't control what volume is going to be we're going to compete as effectively as we can.
We believe there's some upside to cemetery sales that we can achieve if things go our way.
So that's the way to think about this.
I don't think there's anything too secret in our guidance it's just that's the business where it is and we're going to deploy cash very wisely and grow this thing as we've [indiscernible] impact and we'll continue to be impacted over the next 20 30 years.
(Operator Instructions) From Bank of America Merrill Lynch we have Robert Willoughby on the line.
Please go ahead.
Just on the back of that question just clarify Eric you're not assuming any more debt reduction then going forward we're flat-lined to debt levels at this level? Yes.
As I said we're right in the middle of 3.6x to 3.7x Bob and we anticipate staying at those levels.
Okay.
And I didn't see it in the disclosure maybe you commented on it but the SCI direct and cremation rate disclosure in the press release I did not see is there a reason that's been eliminated or did I just miss it? The cremation rate is pretty consistent Bob as it's always been.
We ended the quarter at 51.9% which is 100 basis point increase over the prior year so very consistent.
No reason why we [indiscernible] it – omitted I should say.
We will put that back in.
SCI direct continues to grow continues to do well we just had a lot of Stewart data in the press release but we'll take your comment to heart and under advisement.
The preneed production grew 12.4% to just under $30 million and that's really a function kind of split evenly between a 5 or so percent growth in the prearranged funeral volume in terms of the number of contracts and the average as well kind of 5% to 6% growth.
So it continues to be healthy it continues to be an exciting part of our business.
From UBS we have a follow-up from A.J.
Rice.
Please go ahead.
I figured I'll just come back and ask a couple of more questions if I could here.
Eric when you talked about being below 3.75x debt to EBITDA and that that gives you more flexibility can you just expand a little bit on what additional flexibility you have? A.J.
we had what would be characterized as a basket in the banking credit facility world of capital that we could spend which was around $150 million-ish that we could spend related to share repurchases when the Company has a net debt-to-EBITDA calculation north of 3.75.
Now that we are below that there is no specific stipulation as to how we can spend our capital.
And so therefore we can continue deploying capital towards share repurchases with nothing specific limiting us below 3.75.
Okay.
Tom you talked about expectations for share repurchase over the next year what we might think about.
I know there's been this discussion about the strategic review et cetera and I think you've been orienting yourself towards just redeploying free cash flow towards an ongoing buyback program as opposed to any kind of accelerated program or any of the other things that were mentioned from time to time over the last 18 months.
Is there any formal update on any of that is it pretty definitive now this is the path to go forward with? A.J.
I don't know that formal is the right word but we did evaluate each of those.
And I think as we put those through first of all the lens of our client families and our communities there are certain of these – because of the emotional business that we're in and how reputation is very important there are certain of these that just don't meet the right criteria for us.
There are some that actually work and create some value but the real I guess test is when you apply that opportunity against our opportunity to grow like we think we can through continuing to acquire great businesses and redeploying that cash either to integrate businesses or to shrinking the equity base the higher return is doing what we're doing.
I guess you can make a case that leveraging up more could create a little more value accelerate your shrinking of the equity base and I think when we weigh that versus running the [indiscernible] and what that could do in a downside scenario we think the pace we're on is very healthy and very good.
So our conclusion is what Eric said run the Company at 3.6x to 3.7x be very diligent about how we deploy capital.
I think hopefully you guys have seen our diligence to that over the last four or five years.
We're big believers in growing in this business and we will invest to do it and absent opportunities we're also believers that our share price is not truly reflective of the value of the Company.
So we'll continue to deploy capital as such.
Okay.
Eric when you were talking about the step-up in cash taxes this year to next year I guess you mentioned that you'll continue to look for opportunities.
I know there were some things that [slowed] (ph) the service down like they required some long-term due diligence to figure out what you could deploy into that to reduce cash taxes are you thinking pretty much to run through those and this is a firm number or you think there's some opportunity to wiggle this away as the year progresses next year? I answered it was a firm number in 2012 and luckily I was wrong so there is always hope.
But I would tell you it's a little different time A.J.
than what we've had in the past.
We did have and utilized that benefit that you just described we had a hunch that there was some opportunity there within the Stewart business and their deferred tax assets but we essentially were able to get to that and utilize that in 2014.
And if you recall our original guidance was $70 million of cash taxes in '14 it ended up being $40 million and a lot of that was us doing the work related to the Stewart businesses.
That being said we are focusing continuing our focus to try to drive some ideas to fruition in terms of continuing to create benefits for our shareholders.
We do have a couple of ideas that are going to come to fruition but those are some of those are already baked into this guidance.
There is a little bit of other ideas that we have that we will continue to look at but ultimately I do think that it's not going to dramatically move from what I gave to you this morning.
Okay.
And then just my last one was on the mom-and-pop acquisitions I know you talked about $50 million to $100 million going forward.
I guess I had the impression that there were some things maybe that might close even between now and year-end and I think you may see about 11 million year to date.
Is there some fourth quarter bolus of things that may get closed or is that now really more next year type of opportunities? There may be something that closes A.J.
but not to the level of that $50 million or $100 million because again I think a lot of our focus was integrating Stewart in the first half of the year.
But I think we do feel good about 2015 and the potential for getting some transactions to close that will allow us to deploy some of that capital into growth opportunities which again we'd be excited to do.
Okay great.
Alright thanks a lot.
We have no further questions at this time.
We will now turn it back to SCI management for final remarks.
Thank you everyone for joining us on the call today.
We look forward to talking to you again in 2015.
Take care.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2013 Service Corporation International Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Christine and I will be the operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to SCI management.
You may begin.
Hi and good morning.
This is Debbie Young Director of Investor Relations at SCI.
Welcome to our call today.
As we discussed our fourth quarter and year-end results as well as our outlook for 2014.
Before I turn the call over to Tom let me remind you that the comments made by our management team today will include statements that are not historical and are forward looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections.
These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those factors identified in our press release and in our filings with the SEC that are available on our website.
In today’s comments we may also refer to certain non-GAAP measurements such as normalized EPS adjusted operating cash flow and free cash flow.
Reconciliations of these measurements to the appropriate measures calculated in accordance with GAAP is provided on our website and in our press release and 8-K that were filed yesterday.
With that out of the way I’d like to now turn the call over to Tom Ryan SCI’s President and CEO.
Thanks Debbie and good morning everybody.
I’m going to begin my comments today by giving you an update on our Stewart acquisition and some high level perspective on the 2013 year then I’ll get into the details of the quarter and give you some color on our outlook for 2014.
Now for an update on Stewart.
First and foremost we’re very pleased to report that we closed the Stewart transaction on December 23rd and we’re in the midst of a successful integration.
We couldn’t be any more tried it.
The Stewart acquisition generated the meaningful internal rate of return on capital deployed for our shareholders.
Through this transaction we’re expanding our footprint with premier properties to complement our existing network as well as welcoming very talented and committed people from Stewart into our SCI family.
As part of the federal trade commission approval the level of required divestitures was a little more than we anticipated.
While we’re disappointed to leave these businesses we do not believe it will meaningfully affect our internal rates of return based on the anticipated sales proceeds.
However it will have a slightly negative effect to earnings per share compared to our previous expectations.
Speaking of the divestiture process is going very well and we’re on track to complete all sales we believe by mid 2014.
We like to remind you that we’re divesting of businesses that we’re both legacy SCI and Stewart facilities.
These businesses generated EBITDA of approximately 25% of the historical field level EBITDA of Stewart on a standalone basis.
Shifting to integration the back office and systems integration processes are progressing and we’re confident we can deliver our initial cost synergy estimate.
As we begin our operational and sales integration we believe this could lead to identification of additional synergies.
Now let me move on to give you some perspective on the year 2013.
We couldn’t be proud of our 2013 performance.
We delivered $0.92 of normalized earnings per share which is an improvement of $0.12 or about 15% over 2012.
Additionally we generated $440 million of adjusted cash flow from operations in 2013 which is an increase of $60 million or about 16% over the prior year.
Let me walk you through few of the key factors driving this success.
First our people none of these results would have been possible without the caring professionalism that each and every team member of SCI possess each and everyday with the families we are so privilege to serve.
To our SCI family I want to thank you for all your hard work and focus.
The second key to success preneed sales.
2013 was a tremendous sales year period.
we elevated our game in preneed funeral sales production growing our comparable sales more than 11% which has a minimal impact on current earnings per share and cash flow but is a key strategy for our future growth.
Meanwhile our preneed cemetery production continued on its annual tare growing comparable sales an additional 11% having a meaningful impact on our current financial results.
You will recall beginning in 2009 we began to invest in developing the key infrastructure to delivering superior sales production.
Our success from 2010 through 2012 was almost exclusively generated through enhanced sales force productivity accomplished through lead management improved systems sales manager and counselor training.
Surprising to us our sales force size remains relatively constant.
So more recently in 2013 and really looking again into 2014 we’re investing in recruiters trainers and sales managers to support an effort to sell through an expanded sales force to be achieved to better hiring training and retention.
During 2013 we added over 250 or about 7% to our sales counselor team.
And remember traditionally people purchased cemetery property in early 60s so with the baby-boomers turning a range from 50 to the age of 68 this year are best days remained ahead of us as we continue for sometime.
The third and final key I will discuss is SCI Direct.
Starting in 2014 we have established a new division which will manage our direct cremation brands such as Neptune National Cremation Society and Trident.
We continue to see strong growth in businesses that focus on direct cremation.
Our recognized preneed revenues from these businesses increased over $15 million which is just about 30% growth over 2012.
Finally as we put 2013 behind us I would remind you that the financial successes I just mentioned including a healthy growth and earnings per share and free cash flow was achieved in an environment where we precluded from the pulling capital strategically for the benefit of our shareholders.
With the Stewart funding and closing now behind us we look forward to 2014 with an ability to again return capital to our shareholders like we had historically.
Now let’s shift to an overview of the fourth quarter.
We posted outstanding results with earnings and cash flow exceeding the high end of our guidance ranges we discussed in October.
Normalized earnings per share increased $0.05 or 23% to $0.27.
This was 3 pennies higher than the top end of our guidance range.
The increase in earnings was primarily generated by continued growth in preneed cemetery sales during the fourth quarter and higher cemetery property construction revenues.
We also experienced lower general and administrative expense.
Recall last year that we absorbed some unusual legal costs and settlements as well as higher incentive based compensation expense.
These positive operating results more than overcame the effect of lower core funeral profits and other inflationary cost increases.
Now for an overview of the funeral operations in the quarter.
On a comparable or same-store basis our fourth quarter revenues declined by $3 million.
The decline of $11 in core funeral revenue and recall these are funeral services performed and merchandise delivered after death occurred this $11 million core revenue decline was partially offset by a $4 million increase in recognized pre-need revenue for SCI Direct.
And an additional $4 million increase in general agency revenue as a result of our robust double-digit growth in our preneed funeral sales production.
Core funeral revenues declined as a result of 4.3% funeral services performed.
This was anticipated as we experienced the beginning of an exceptionally strong flu season in the fourth quarter of 2012.
On a comparable basis funeral profits decreased $10 million and our adjusted funeral margin percentage dropped by 230 basis points.
There were two primary reasons for the funeral profit decline.
First keep in mind that the base fixed costs are growing with inflation driving incremental cost of approximately $7 million for quarter.
Second core revenues carry the highest incremental variable margin.
So on a decline of $11 million in core revenues that I just mentioned we'd estimate this impact to profit by an approximate $7 million if you assume a 60% incremental margin so those two loans would [bounce] back $14 million.
Partially offsetting these decreases was the contribution from recognized preneed revenue from SCI direct.
Recognized preneed revenues grew $4 million or about 30% but remember this business is a lower margin probably about 20% compared to SCI’s core revenue.
Finally we would not have a negative impact on funeral gross profit dollars.
Growth in preneed funeral sales production generates general agency revenue which is generally offset by selling cost.
This has the effect of reducing gross margin percentage especially when we experienced preneed production growth as we did in the fourth quarter of this year.
Despite the pressure on our margin percentage we believe this is a good problem to have as our strategy is to focus on our preneed sales program which adds to an already impressive $9 billion backlog of preneed contracts in future revenue.
Now for an overview of cemetery operations in the quarter comparable cemetery revenues exceeded our expectations by increasing $24.4 million or 11.5% quarter-over-quarter.
In addition to higher than expected cemetery property construction revenues during the quarter our sales team continued to outperform.
Comparable preneed sales production grew a strong 16% in the quarter which was well above certain expectations not necessarily mine.
Stepping back and looking at the full year for a moment preneed cemetery sales production grew a little over 11% in 2013 which is just great execution and more than what we expected following two consecutive years of double-digit growth a big thank you to our sales and operations teams and our market leadership for continuing to deliver exceptional results.
Driven by the cemetery revenue growth adjusted cemetery profit grew $9.3 million or about 16% for the quarter and adjusted margins increased by 120 basis points to 27.9%.
Similar to our funeral segment incremental revenue growth results in healthy incremental margins due to our high fixed cost structure.
On the operating revenue growth of $24 million we would have anticipated incremental profit of approximately $14 million versus the actual $9.3 million that we reported.
There were two primary reasons again for the $5 million profit difference.
First keep in mind that the basics costs are growing with inflation which in the cemetery segment would increase expenses some $4 million per quarter.
And second our sales production success continues to outpace our ability to construct and recognize revenue.
This quarter we deferred approximately $5 million in revenue on a net basis which would cause us to recognize an additional selling expense of $1 million in the quarter associated with production that will get recognized in future periods.
Now I’ll shift to our 2014 outlook.
We continue to be enthusiastic about the profitable growth that the Stewart acquisition will contribute in 2014 and again in 2015 as the full way of the synergies is realized.
As we disclosed in our press release we’re pleased to reiterate our 2014 normalized earnings per share guidance range of $1 to $1.10 per share.
Since we first disclosed this guidance range last October we’ve had several items that negatively impacted the guidance range including a higher level of divestitures additional non-cash impact from continuing to refine our purchase price allocation for Stewart and higher healthcare cost than originally anticipated.
However there also have been some positive changes affecting the guidance.
First as we now have greater visibility in the SCI’s expenditures from our newly upgraded purchasing systems we’ve identified additional opportunities to leverage scale and purchasing power that we think can be achieved in 2014.
Second we believe we will be able to continue to grow our preneed cemetery sales at similar percentages even with the over performance we experienced in the fourth quarter of 2013.
And finally we are now modeling higher cemetery constructions revenues than we had originally forecasted though 2013 will be a tough act to follow.
At the midpoint of our 2014 normalized earnings per share guidance it represents a 14% growth over 2013.
It will continue to be challenging to grow same-store funeral revenues until such time as we see a movement in comparable funeral volume as revenue recognition is largely dependent as you guys know on the event of death.
Until then we should continue to see steady predictable cash flows and flat to slightly increasing profits.
We will also continue to focus on growing our preneed backlog to increase market share overtime.
And we are modeling preneed sales growth in the mid to high single-digit percentage range.
On the cemetery side same-store revenues will continue to grow led by strong preneed sales production.
The double-digit growth we have achieved in the last three years has been outstanding but this is getting harder and harder to replicate as we grow the base production each year.
Our models for 2014 therefore suggest growth in the mid to high single-digit percentage range.
And as I mentioned we remained confident in our ability to deliver the $60 million in synergies related to the Stewart acquisition that we have previously identified.
While we continue to believe in the potential for additional synergies it’s too early in the game for us to quantify anything at this point.
Finally in conclusion with the Stewart acquisition complete we believe we now have an enhanced platform for growth.
Our strategy remains the same.
Demographics dictate that our industry will experience a natural growth trajectory and our improved and expanded footprint position us well for the future.
We believe we will capture more than our fair share of this growth as we expand our network to continued specific market acquisitions and more importantly by continuing to grow our preneed backlog.
In 2013 our aggregate funeral and cemetery preneed sales production exceeded $1.3 billion and we will grow it from there with the addition of Stewart in 2014.
We recognize this level of activity is unparallel in our industry and gives us a tremendous competitive advantage.
Our preneed backlog today with the addition of Stewart stands at approximately $9 billion which bodes very well for future earnings and cash flow.
In the meantime we expect to continue to generate strong cash flow and that along with anticipated divestiture proceeds in the first half of this year will support a quick deleveraging and allow us to return our focus to future capital allocations designed to enhance shareholder value.
This concludes my prepared comments.
And now I’ll turn the call over to Eric.
Good morning everybody.
I am going to start this morning with my comments described in our cash flow results for the full year 2013 and then I'm going to talk a little bit about the fourth quarter as well.
Then after this I'd like to discuss some forward-looking comments related to our cash flow outlook for 2014 our current financial position.
And then I'm going to end with some of our thoughts on our capital deployment plans as we look forward in 2014.
So as you've seen we finished 2013 on a really high [hope] delivering strong earnings and cash flow results which exceeded our expectations.
For the full year free cash flow generated in 2013 grew $65 million to $236 million and exceeded the high-end of our guidance range for normalized free cash flow which was $305 million to $320 million.
This represents a tremendous growth of 24% over 2012 levels despite a $10 million increase in cash taxes year-over-year.
This increase is primarily the result of higher earnings associated with increased cemetery profits and higher cash receipts associated with preneed funeral and cemetery sets.
So on the fourth quarter our operating cash flow grew 15% to $106 million compared to $92 million in the prior year quarter and exceeded the high-end of our guidance range given to you in October which was $80 million to $95 million.
Similar to the full year story the increase in operating cash flow in the fourth quarter is predominantly associated with higher than anticipated earnings driven by our cemetery segment results and higher preneed cash receipt on the very strong preneed sales production numbers that Tom just highlighted.
Additionally we benefited by about $5 million with lower cash interest payments in the quarter as we refinanced our 7.375% debt with 4.5% debt and we did that late in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Due to payroll funding dates this year we also partially funded a January 2014 payroll in December of 2013 and that was approximately $18 million.
This is just a timing issue and we’ll see the benefit from this next quarter.
Excluding this expected payment our operating cash flow would have grown $32 million during the quarter.
So after we deduct our maintenance CapEx and cemetery development CapEx which was approximately $31 million and this was in line with our expectations we calculate our free cash flow for the fourth quarter to be right at about $75 million.
This is about $16 million or 28% increase over the prior quarter.
So now let’s talk about the cash flow looking forward to 2014.
We expect to continue to generate attractive operating cash flow even with the downward pressure from higher cash taxes and higher cash interest from incremental debt related to the Stewart acquisition.
As disclosed in the press release the guidance we gave you back in October remains unchanged at $430 million to $480 million for adjusted cash flow from operations.
This cash flow guidance for 2014 at the mid-point implies growth of about $15 million or 3.5% over 2013.
As we have previously said we anticipate the underlying cash flows of our business to grow in addition to the contribution from the Stewart acquisition.
However this growth will be moderated by an increase in cash taxes as SCI’s remaining net operating losses are anticipated to be fully utilized during the early part of 2014.
So as a reminder related to cash taxes in October we stated that we expect cash tax payments in 2014 to be approximately $70 million and this guidance remains unchanged.
This is an approximately $45 million increase over cash taxes paid in 2013 which is right around $25 million.
Neutralizing the impact of this cash tax headwind for us in 2014 our expected operating cash flow is growing at about 13.5% as opposed to the 3.5% that I just mentioned before.
This $70 million of anticipated cash tax payments represent our expectation of a cash tax rate for 2014 in the high teens to the low 20% range.
Next year in 2015 we’ll be a cash tax payer for the full year and I will anticipate our cash tax rate to be in the low to mid 30% range.
Our guidance for our income statement provision tax provision remains unchanged with an expected effective tax rate of 37% to 38% in 2014.
Lastly consistent with the guidance we provided to you in October our cash interest payments are estimated to range from a $170 million to $180 million.
This represents an approximately $15 million increase over 2013 levels.
Our recurring CapEx guidance remains unchanged at $135 million to $145 million which results in anticipated free cash flow in 2014 to range from $285 million to $345 million.
On a per share basis this equates to $1.32 to $1.59 and that’s using a fully diluted weighted average share count of about 216 million shares.
Now I want to talk about our financial position and then our capital deployment as we look forward to 2014.
So after closing and funding the Stewart acquisition we continue to be confident with the strength and flexibility of our financial position and our liquidity affords us.
At December 31st we had a $145 million of cash on hand and about $420 million of availability on our credit facility.
We believe this liquidity is very robust especially considering that the numbers I just gave you is after closing the Stewart acquisition.
Now subsequent to year end we funded $110 million additionally with our revolver and also used some cash on hand to retire all of the Stewart’s convertible notes which were right at about $132 million.
At December 31st our leverage on net debt to EBITDA basis as calculated in accordance with our credit facility was just over four times after the close of the acquisition.
And as we stated we will generally target to run the company with the leverage ratio in the mid threes.
From a capital and liquidity standpoint in 2014 we are also expecting a significant amount of proceeds from divestitures related to the Stewart acquisition.
In fact we are anticipating pre-tax divestiture proceeds to range from $415 million to $430 million in mid 2014.
I do want to note however that the assets being divested are older in nature and therefore have a lower tax basis.
As such these sales would generate a large gain that will be taxed closer to our ordinary statutory corporate tax rate of about 35%.
We are currently evaluating various opportunities to reduce cash taxes on these associated gains from divestitures.
But our current estimate for cash taxes is between $90 million to $100 million yielding net proceeds from the divestitures of $315 million to $340 million.
We expect the cash taxes associated with these divestitures to be paid over the next three months to nine months as the divestiture proceeds are realized.
And again just to be crystal clear I want to highlight that these cash taxes will be paid out of the divestiture proceeds and are independent from our guidance of recurring cash taxes of $70 million in 2014 associated with our ongoing business that I mentioned earlier in the call.
So in terms of capital deployment going forward first is stipulated in our bank credit agreement we will use the first $200 million of after tax divestiture proceeds to pay down our $600 million term loan.
And also note that we also have to pay the required amortization of the term loan in 2014 which is an additional approximately $30 million.
As we have consistently discussed before we plan now to take a balanced approach to deploying our capital after reducing leverage to under four times to get that down to our targeted roughly 3.5 leverage range that I expect we will achieve by the end of 2014.
In addition to further debt reduction we'll also consider specific market acquisitions at the appropriate returns and then return cash to our shareholders through our dividend with any excess capital going to share repurchases assuming the valuations remain favorable.
Currently to remind you we have a $190 million authorized under our share repurchase program.
So in conclusion again I also want to say to welcome all of the Stewart associates and thank the SCI and Stewart associates in advance for their dedication and professionalism during this integration period.
The integration process is on track and is going very well.
And 2014 will be a milestone year for us as we enjoy the growth from the Stewart acquisition.
Together as we look to the future by focusing on growing our base business improving customer satisfaction and deploying capital responsibly we believe that we can continue to create value for our shareholders in 2014.
So with that operator that concludes our prepared remarks.
And at this point in time we'll open the call up to questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from A.J.
Rice from UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi this is [Brandon Bager] for A.J.
Just maybe a little more color on the acceleration versus last couple of quarters seems kind of double-digit growth in the preneed funeral side.
What's been driving that is there any sort of internal sales force changes or just the market growth getting better? And then also as you think about it sort of big picture here at the backlog helps you or doesn’t to help your earnings that much in the current quarter on the funeral side when you think you get to point where some of the success you’ve got a last decade growing that backlog maybe that starts to more than offset what we would see in a current quarter and on a given quarter what you get you put in to the preneed backlog if you will?  Okay.
First part of your question Bran I think is as it relate to our success again I think it’s the primary reason that I would put on the most recent acceleration has to do with what I was talking about before.
We have seen productivity enhancements over the last few years to drive sales and what you are seeing for the first time in the last four five years is an expanded sales force.
We grew the sales force by an additional 7% we've never done that.
And we are putting people on that are very productive.
So I think probably the primary differential over previous quarters is that we really have more people out there interacting with baby boomers which is driving production.
The second question I wish I could answer for you unfortunately if I knew that I would tell you.
So it’s very very hard to predict.
What I would tell you is we've experienced kind of accelerated preneed production now for four years.
And so my gut would tell me that within the next two to three to four to five years we should begin to at least see some of that falling into your revenue but again very very hard to predict within the accuracy.
So we’ll continue to monitor it but I can’t give anymore guidance than that.
Got you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Chris Rigg from Susquehanna.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
And I got in a couple of minutes late here so I apologize if you comment on this.
But with regard to the guidance is your synergy target unchanged at this point? Yes.
The synergy target that we have is unchanged.
I think what I said Chris if you missed it was we feel like there could be more we’re not in a position yet to quantify what that might be.
But that has not unchanged and I kind of gave three factors that we’re kind of negatively impacting our ability to execute ‘14 and then three that overcome it which gets us back to maintaining our range.
Okay okay.
And then when I look at the direct selling prices the average revenue per contract sold it looks like that pricing firmed quite a bit relative to other recent periods is there anything notable there? I think a lot of it has to do with smaller discounting that we’re doing a better job of explaining.
You’re talking about within direct cremation sales… Yes when I look at the average it looks like it was up 11% to 12% and have been sort of mid to upper single-digits prior to this quarter? Yes.
I think we’ve used a lot of kind of discounting and coupon strategically and we’ve done some testing to see if people found value without that and we realized some success in utilizing some of those techniques and that’s been probably the biggest driver of the increase year-over-year is just less discounting as they percentage their products and services.
Okay okay.
And then one of the headwinds that you talked about was the way you allocated the purchase price.
I am assuming that’s falling into amortization somehow.
Can you give us a sense for how much of that -- what’s the incremental headwind that wasn’t in your initial 2014 guidance?  What I’d Chris is it wasn’t a reallocation it was just a fact that when we gave October guidance we hadn’t close the transaction we were still in the middle of really pulling together what we thought the anticipated purchase price allocation and now obviously is more refined as we closed in and as of December 31st that you will see in our 10-K.
But the answer of your question is in terms of the original $1.05 to today it was probably about $0.02 to $0.03 differential that it put pressure on EPS.
Didn’t necessarily pressure on cash which means you are correct in your assumption that it’s more of non-cash amortization type item that put that pressure on.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next comes from John Ransom from Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Three things; in your funeral backlog is the mix of dignity still higher that had need and is that have an effect on your ASP as the dignity matures?  Yes we are seeing a higher mix of selling packages into the backlog and the things that are rolling out are going to have that impact exactly John.
I don’t have the numbers in front of me but that’s the general trend that we are experiencing and that we would project overtime.
We feel better about the preneed going at need average that should continue to grow overtime because of the type of business we are putting in the backlog.
Tom do you have an approximate number for the maturing preneed compared to your overall ASP what’s the difference there? So in other words if you are generating $500 000 on average for dignity’s maturity as the backlog is maturing at $7 000 or something like that? I think it’s about a $200 differential amount John.
So it’s something to that affect.
And keep in mind probably that backlog has a higher instance of cremation as it relates to.
So you are dealing with the higher mix and still generating the type of revenues that we are.
Okay.
Secondly I know you do a lot of work I mean early days to minimize the cash flow track from selling preneed because you pick the cash in the short time; you have to pay your sales person.
Could you remind us kind of currently how that stands when you sell funeral preneed into the truck into the third party interest.
What the kind of first year cash flow looks like from that activity? Yes I think I mean at synergy if you just look to the selling cost and G&amp;A if we sell an insurance funded product call it a -- we are going to get a 20% of base value just around the purposes that’s the G&amp;A revenue and cash that will get upfront.
We will pay about 15% or 16% in selling cost in order to obtain that.
The difference if we sold all insurance it be actually slightly cash flow positive.
The differences in certain states and in certain instances we sold trust.
When we sell trust we mainly get retainage of 10% and our selling costs continue to be 16.
So when you blend the two essentially the G&amp;A revenues and retention are going to offset the selling cost.
And so one of the things we keep talking about is the margin percentage is negatively impacted.
It’s not really a cash flow drag in a pure sense it just brings down the percentage margin because you are grossing up the revenues and then you’re turning around and giving away all the profit below.
Cemetery side I'm sorry.
Go ahead I'm sorry.
What I was going to say on the cemetery side the trusting loss are less punitive we don't sell insurance to start with but generally we're not having to trust nearly the amount we do on the funeral side.
So as we grow cemetery generally the cash flow is going to more than offset again depending on how much you collect down payment.
But regardless of that it's very cash flow beneficial and as you know to the extent we sell property the profit gets recognized upon sales as long as it's been constructed.
So very cash flow positive on the cemetery side.
But there is a day prior 10 15 years ago where our selling cost that I'm telling you now 16 18 on the cemetery side it's pretty closer to 20 we're in the 30% range.
And so there is a time when preneed was very cash flow negative and now what I'd tell you is that on the funeral side it's cash flow neutral and on the cemetery side it's cash flow positive.
Right.
And as you have [blended] next now that you are accounting for the divestitures in the Stewart deal do you still think you'll be on the funeral side in that 2 to 1 range of insurance funded versus trust funded preneed on the funeral side? Yes I don't see no reason why we wouldn't continue with the trend we're at.
Okay.
And then finally could you just remind us as you do cremation funeral versus a casket funeral just to be approximate gross profit dollars difference in those two transactions? I mean I'd be approximating John because I don't have anything in front of me.
But probably the way you think about it is you're going to spend on average about $4 000 less.
So revenue would be impacted by that much.
I would tell you that more than likely on a profit side it's probably closer to 2 because you're not going to have the cost of a casket you're not going to have some other ancillary costs so I’d say on a gross dollar percentage it’s probably around two and I would tell you on a gross margin percentage not gross dollar that actually it would be higher on a incremental basis.
Right.
Okay thanks a lot.
Great job.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Duncan Brown from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
I think going back to the last call asked about your guidance thoughts for legacy SCI and Stewart and you made basically similar assumptions for both volume and pricing for both legacy assets but that you thought there might be some more opportunity on the Stewart side particularly on the funeral portion; any update on that? You are talking specifically about sales Duncan? That's right sorry.
Yes.
I think again it’s really too early to tell.
We’re just integrating the Stewart businesses; we got some great people some great properties.
We are little bit difficult to transition completely because of systems that needed to be integrated.
We would anticipate by the end of May that we would all be on similar systems and therefore to go to similar sales structure and sales payment type programs which I think should generate some accelerated growth particularly in the back half of the year.
But I’d say we are still in a position of analyzing and trying to understand exactly what we think we can do.
But we feel very good about the businesses and the people.
And so I’d look for our ability to grow those very similarly to what we grow SCI business.
Okay.
That's fair; I appreciate it still early stages.
I guess for the assets you need to sell is there anything that you can tell us about them are they -- I think in the press release you said there was 91 locations are most of them combos is it heavily weighted to funerals or cemeteries anything you can parse out there? Well I think on a location basis you’re going to see more funeral homes but I think on an EBITDA basis a lot of it’s driven on a cemetery side.
There is some really profitable cemeteries that unfortunately we’re going to have to divest of.
But the good news is a lot of people are interested in them and they’re going to command good prices.
So I would say the mix of profits more tilted towards cemetery and the mix of actual numbers of 91 is going to be probably 65% on the funeral.
That’s -- I am speaking without anything in front of me so forgive me if I’m a little off.
No that’s fair I appreciate.
And maybe if I could one numbers question.
In press release you highlighted $25.7 million of cost related to Stewart and G&amp;A line.
How should we think about that is all of that one-time in connection with the transaction or some of that ongoing? That’s a one-time cost in terms of what we’re calling out and added back in non-recurring.
That all relates to fees and such related to the closing of the transaction in the fourth quarter.
Great thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We have time for one more caller.
Our caller is Bob Willoughby from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hey Tom and Eric.
I apologize I jumped on late if you mentioned this already.
But can you give us any comments on the performance of Stewart since their last financial report we haven’t seen much from them of late is there anything anecdotal about their experience? I think that again just to reiterate what Tom mentioned about not only the quality of the assets is the quality of the people and those people that are running the funeral homes and cemeteries for the Stewart and they are going to be integrated into our network are doing a great job.
And we really haven’t seen a lot of degradation in their performance and in their properties.
We are very pleased again with the assets and we are very pleased with the management and the people that are just doing a tremendous job and we look forward to integrating them into our company.
Were the pre-lease efforts in line with the view…  Yes I think Bob we probably saw a little bit of and I think it’s just hesitation in trying to understand where you are going.
Funeral volumes are going to be down a little bit like we experienced because you had a tough.
And I would say on the selling side it was tough to drive sales in that interim period.
But I think what Eric is trying to point out is we think that was a temporary blip and we believe now that within our systems and within our structure they are great people great properties; we are going to get them back.
But you are right I mean I think waiting for the Federal Trade Commission over seven months period it’s hard to drive sales if you are Stewart management in that time period.
So it was down a bit but nothing shocking by any stretch.
Okay.
And did you offer any update Tom just the timing of the divestiture program can you get it done in the first half that quickly?  We do.
I said in the comments Bob that we believe as of right now that it will all get done by mid-year.
So we feel pretty good about that.
And again on the integration side everything is going really well and we are very confident about our ability to deliver synergies.
That’s perfect.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Bob.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call back to SCI management for closing remarks.
We want to thank everybody for participating today and we look forward to talking to you at our first quarter earnings call which will be sometime in late April.
So until then have a great 2014.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q1 2015 Service Corporation International Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Elsa and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to SCI management.
Hi and good morning.
This is Debbie Young Director of Investor Relations at SCI.
We appreciate you taking the time this morning to join us as we discuss our results for the first quarter.
As usual I will begin with our customary Safe Harbor language.
The comments made by our management team will include statements that are not historical and are forward-looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections.
These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those factors identified in our press release and in our filings with the SEC that are available on our website.
In today’s comments we may also refer to certain non-GAAP measurements such as normalized EPS adjusted operating cash flow and free cash flow.
Reconciliation of these measurements to the appropriate measures calculated in accordance with GAAP is provided on our website and in our press release and 8-K that were filed yesterday.
With that behind us let’s begin with comments from Tom Ryan SCI’s President and CEO.
Thank you Debbie and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on the call today.
As you saw on our press release yesterday we are off to a great start in 2015 with an outstanding performance in the first quarter.
Normalized earnings per share grew an impressive 14.3% to $0.32 per share.
We are proud to report that this is the fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings per share growth.
This growth is even more impressive when you consider the $0.03 per share headwind we overcame from losing the contribution of the divested properties from the Stewart combination.
Excluding the impact of these divestitures our growth would have been 28%.
Overall we had very strong performances in both funeral and cemetery segments.
Additionally lower interest expense and lower share count helped to offset increased overhead expenses as we expanded our support capacity to match the larger portfolio of businesses created from the Stewart transaction.
Let me mention a few other highlights of the quarter.
Our adjusted cash flow from operations grew an impressive $34 million or 21% over the prior year.
Also during the quarter we acquired various properties which we expect will add approximately $13 million in annual revenue.
Accordingly I would like to welcome the employees of these prestigious businesses to the SCI and Dignity family.
Finally and perhaps most importantly to you we continue to deliver on our commitment to return capital to our shareholders with share repurchases and dividends totaling nearly $94 million during the first quarter of 2015.
Now for a deeper dive into funeral operations for the quarter.
The results of our comparable funeral segment which now includes the Stewart operations came in slightly higher than our expectations for the quarter due to higher than anticipated funeral volume.
We were well positioned to respond to the high demand created by the strong flu season that continued from December into the first quarter of 2015.
When compared to the prior year our first quarter funeral revenues increased by $21 million or 4.4%.
The bulk of this revenue growth came from a 4.1% increase in funeral volume which exceeded our expectations.
We believe this increase was primarily driven by the impact of a tough flu season which had a differential effect on the elderly population.
The obvious question you want ask is Tom is this the impact of demographics or maybe the first signs of market share gains from our recent success in preneed sales? As many of you know as an industry we lack any real-time reliable death rate or market share data.
While we could be experiencing a slight impact it’s important to remember this.
Back in 2013 first quarter volume was up 4.3% but we ended the entire year 2013 down 0.8%.
Now let’s look back at 2014.
The first quarter volume was down 7.2% but we finished the year 2014 only down 1.8%.
So in our recent experience many of these flu-related deaths are an acceleration that would have likely occurred later in the year.
So while this higher volume had a significant impact on the quarter for now we are still modeling volume for the year to be down in the low single-digit percentage range.
Now the funeral sales average it grew 0.2% which fell slightly short of our expectations.
Isolating the anticipated negative currency impacts from a weaker Canadian dollar the average grew 1.1% on a constant currency basis.
The remaining funeral revenue growth of $2.5 million was related to an increase in recognized preneed revenue and higher general agency revenue from preneed insurance contracts sold.
So nice revenue growth but what do we put on the bottom line comparable funeral gross profits grew $14 million or almost 13% and the gross margin percentage improved to almost 25% or just under 200 basis points.
We managed our costs well and we were able to generate 66% incremental margins on the revenue growth we produced which is in line with our expectations in the range of what we have been communicating to you.
As it relates to preneed comparable preneed funeral sales production excluding terminally imminent situations in both periods grew 4.4% which is in line with our expectations of mid single-digit growth year-over-year so overall great job for the funeral segment.
Now let’s talk about cemetery operations overall comparable cemetery results which again now includes the Stewart businesses performed extremely well and ahead of our expectations.
Comparable cemetery revenue grew $17.6 million or almost 8% quarter-over-quarter.
Of the $17.6 million increase in cemetery revenue $11.8 million of it was from recognized preneed revenue.
While this 10% increase was impressive our actual preneed sales production grew $25.2 million or 17.5%.
This was beyond our expectations and a real testament to the talents and efforts of our sales organization.
It also means that future quarters will benefit from this additional sales production when the revenue recognition requirement is met either 10% down payment collected or the completion of construction.
We believe the preneed sales production increase can be attributed to three primary factors.
First last year was a tough first quarter and that we were neck deep into the integration of Stewart.
And our focus was on managing that change.
Second it took longer to finalize our cemetery construction planning last year because of the integration.
This year with planned projects and their associated timing clear we are selling into those projects faster.
These two factors should have a waning year-over-year effect as 2015 progresses.
However the third and final factor should accelerate.
It is our new customer relationship management platform that allows us to manage the right sales behaviors which then results in improved outcomes and more predictable results.
Our implementation of sales force has allowed our sales leadership to identify gaps in the selling process and more effectively direct our training resources to close those gaps leading to improved appointment and closing rates.
In addition to increased preneed cemetery revenues atneed cemetery revenue grew some $4.9 million or 7% as increased activity similar to the funeral business drove increases in atneed property merchandise and service revenues.
The preneed and atneed cemetery revenue growth drove cemetery profits higher by $8.7 million and the margins increased 210 basis points to 22.3%.
So this $17.6 million revenue increase produced $8.7 million in incremental cemetery profits for a 49% incremental margin.
Keep in mind when we generate sales production we will incur and recognize a selling cost even if that production revenue is deferred in the current period.
For the first quarter we net deferred $40.2 million of sales production versus $26.8 million in the prior year quarter.
This $13.4 million increase in deferred production revenues assuming a 20% sales cost produces $2.7 million in selling costs associated with that incremental deferred production.
If you were to remove that selling costs from first quarter earnings the incremental margin for the quarter would have been 65% which would then be in line with our range of expectation.
So to wrap it up we have a lot of positive momentum for the first quarter that we believe will serve us well as we continue throughout the remainder of the year.
We remain very confident in our earnings per share and cash flow targets for the year.
And while we are feeling very enthusiastic about the first quarter we will revisit our guidance with you after the second quarter when we have six months under our belt.
Overall we remain optimistic about our ability to continue to deliver strong results which will allow us to actively pursue growth strategies and continue to focus on increasing shareholder value.
With that I will turn the call over to Eric.
Good morning everybody.
As usual this morning I will walk you through the details of the first quarter cash flow performance as well as our 2015 outlook and then I would like to highlight some of the capital deployment that we did for the quarter.
So let’s start with our cash flow performance.
As everybody has probably seen by now in yesterday’s press release our adjusted operating cash flow in the quarter was very strong growing $34 million or 21% over the prior year to a total amount of $198 million.
This exceeded our expectations.
This was accomplished despite contributions from FTC divested properties in 2014 that did not benefit us in the first quarter of 2015 and we estimate that cash flow impact to be about $10 million to $12 million difference quarter-over-quarter.
Cash flow growth during the quarter was predominantly driven by higher cash receipts from improved operating performance lower cash taxes and interest and improved preneed funeral and cemetery collections.
So let me give you a little bit more color on that.
First our cash receipts during the quarter were higher due to cash collections increasing from the strong funeral case volume activity that we have experienced starting back in December 2014 through this quarter.
Our cash interest payments also declined by about $3 million.
This was in line with our expectations as we continue to pay the required amortization of our term loan from the Stewart transaction.
Next our cash tax payments during the quarter also dropped by almost $11 million over the prior year quarter and came in lower than we expected.
That being said we still anticipate our full year cash tax payments we previously communicated to remain unchanged and I am going to give you a little bit more color to that in just a moment.
Our cemetery preneed sales production levels were up from last year as Tom mentioned and we also experienced an improvement in preneed cash collections driven by customer payments on the installment plans received during this quarter.
Finally cash flow also benefited this quarter from lower payroll disbursements as we partially funded a January 2015 payroll in December 2014.
This is a temporary effect obviously then and it had an effect of about $11 million for this quarter’s cash flow.
Our maintenance CapEx and cemetery development CapEx and again these are the two components that we consider our recurring CapEx.
These for the quarter came in at $26.6 million which is about $4.5 million higher than prior year but in line with what we expected.
Deducting these recurring capital spending items from our adjusted cash flow from ops we calculate our free cash flow for the first quarter to be about $171 million.
This reflects an impressive $30 million increase over the prior year quarter which again was higher than our expectations for the reasons I just mentioned.
So let’s look forward now in terms of cash flow outlook for the remainder of 2015.
As Tom mentioned we would like to reaffirm our outlook for the full year of 2015 as it relates to cash flow from operations excluding special items of a range of $450 million to $500 million as our confidence in this range has been bolstered by our strong first quarter operating results.
Let me give you a few comments on our assumptions for this outlook.
First we believe our strong funeral case volume experienced in the first quarter will return to more normalized levels in the second through fourth quarters of 2015.
So for the full year of 2015 we are still modeling funeral case volume to be flat to slightly down in the low single-digit percentage range.
Also remember that our first quarter cash flow is seasonally high due to cash interest payments that primarily occur for us in the second and fourth quarters during the year.
During this quarter we paid only $17 million in cash interest.
We expect to pay about $65 million in cash interest in the second quarter and about $81 million thereafter in 2015.
Finally our cash tax estimate for 2015 which again is based on the midpoints of our models remains unchanged at $125 million for the full year.
While cash tax payments during the quarter came in lower than we expected as I mentioned before we expect these cash tax payments to increase over the remainder of 2015.
As our track record has shown we are always continuing to work on implementing tax planning opportunities to help mitigate cash taxes going forward.
Our guidance for capital spending in 2015 for maintenance and cemetery development remains unchanged at $130 million to $140 million.
Deducting these recurring CapEx items from our 2015 cash flow from operation expectations will result in free cash flow in 2015 continuing to range from $310 million to $370 million.
This equates to about $1.65 per share – free cash flow per share at the midpoint of this range.
So I would like to shift to cash deployment during the quarter.
To begin with we finished the quarter with healthy liquidity of approximately $435 million which consisted of about $217 million of cash on hand and just about the same amount of availability on our credit facility.
This liquidity positions us well to strategically execute our capital deployment plans.
So during the quarter we first acquired several locations for a total investment of just over $45 million.
These were funded with $30 million of cash and around $15 million of funds from light kind exchange accounts that were set up in conjunction with the 2014 FTC asset divestitures.
And as Tom mentioned in his remarks returning capital to our shareholders remains the priority for us.
We paid a $0.10 dividend in the quarter funded just over $20 million in dividend payments.
This reflects the third dividend increase in the past 15 months and equates to a 1.4% dividend yield.
In the quarter we also repurchased just over 3 million shares for a total investment of $73 million.
But subsequent to the end of the quarter we have also repurchased about almost 1 million additional shares for a total investment of about $23 million.
Therefore when you look at what we have done in total in 2015 through today we have repurchased about 4 million shares for a total investment of nearly $100 million.
Since completing the Stewart acquisition in December of 2013 we have repurchased over 15 million shares for a total investment of $335 million.
And currently we have about 202 million shares outstanding and about $145 million of remaining share repurchase authorization.
Our leverage which is calculated as net debt to EBITDA in accordance with our credit facility was 3.6 times at the end of the first quarter.
This sets us firmly within our current targeted leverage range of 3.5 times to 3.7 times which we intend to maintain going forward and positions us well as we move forward in 2015.
So in conclusion to echo what Tom has already said we are off to a great start in 2015.
Our robust cash flow coupled with the strength of our balance sheet and our liquidity continues to provide us with a tremendous amount of financial flexibility to continue to deploy our capital to increase shareholder value.
We will continue to deploy this capital to achieve the highest total shareholder return while maintaining our leverage targets as follows.
Acquisitions and funeral location new builds; dividends share repurchases and occasionally near-term debt maturity management as may be needed from time-to-time.
So we appreciate you joining us this morning.
And operator that concludes our comments and now we will open it up for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And we have our first question from Chris Rigg from Susquehanna.
Chris your line is now open.
Hi good morning guys.
Just wanted to ask about M&amp;A I think I should be – should we be thinking about the M&amp;A in the first quarter is about $46 million not the $30 ish million that’s in the cash flow statement.
And then with that that’s basically the low end of your target range for the year so how do you feel about transactions over the balance of 2015? Thanks.
Yes.
First Chris to answer your question that’s the right way to think about it about $46 million and it would tell me that I would be looking for the higher end of our range as to what we will close because clearly we have got other transactions in the pipeline.
And so we feel really good about the opportunities that are in front of us in 2015 both from acquisition perspective as well as looking at some new build opportunities and continuing to invest in cemetery inventory that these types of returns as good as they are even outshine share repurchases.
So as soon as we can – as much of that as we can get we will do.
Okay.
And then on – with regard to the Stewart synergies I mean are you sort of run-rating the full amount at this point or is there still some more cost to come out of the deal? There are still some costs to go.
I mean when you think of the $100 million we shifted in and announced last quarter that more came in in 2014 than what we expected.
So we expected about – where the run rate was about $55 million coming in about $35 million will come in in 2015 and about $10 million in 2016.
So you are really not at the full run rate.
You will be at the full run rate in 2015 but it’s going to be later in the year and some of that a very small amount will lop over into 2016 in terms of actually hitting the income statement.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Robert Willoughby from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Robert you may go ahead.
Tom and Eric can you speak to – and Eric you touched on possible refis here I guess you do have a substantial amount of debt coming due over the next few years and it looks like higher coupon stuff is there – or how are you thinking about refinancing maybe all of it at some point or what kind of rate arbitrage would you anticipate from that kind of activity? Without quoting anybody that we have worked with because you have to be careful doing that obviously publicly.
But if you just take where we are trading today and look at where we could refinance it’s probably similar to the past transaction last year where you could probably do something in the high-4s or low-5s.
Now in terms of specifically talking with financial partners in terms of entering the market we continued to look at that.
We have no plans right now to announce obviously.
But in terms of looking at more of a big bang refinancing what I would point out to you Robert is that a lot of the near-term stuff still has make whole payments associated with it.
And so we are kind of looking at it from an NPV perspective in terms of if interest rates are going to continue to stay at these levels then every day that goes by that you are not refinancing yet you are going to have a lower make whole payment ultimately when you do refinance.
And you balance that with our liquidity and our desire to clean – have a good clean track record looking forward for 12 months or so of near-term debt maturity profiles to give us the flexibility to have the deployment plans such as dividends and share repurchases and acquisitions that we have described to you.
Ultimately as you get through those make whole payments you get to some maturities that don’t have those that have call provisions and that would lead you to be at that time maybe something a little bit bigger.
But as of right now that’s how we are balancing it.
Balancing the make-whole provisions with it – with an opinion of when do we think interest rates should move.
And in that case you got to probably go sooner rather than later.
Okay.
And then on the acquisition side some of the tax benefits I think you have seen I know my wife routinely sells my house and gets rid of all my possessions regularly but she rolls it forward into something bigger with the divestitures that you have done you got the benefit in what you pay for the deals this past quarter do you – is that a continuing benefit there have you redeployed all that benefit as yet or how big is what’s left? Not as big.
I mean when we did strategically is you have a period of time where you can do what you are describing which is a lifetime exchange and keep the money into some type of escrow account.
But at some point it expires over a certain number of months.
And so we were able to utilize that in foreseeing this particular transaction that was very successful for us but there is not a lot left to do probably in that perspective.
Okay.
And Tom any color can you tell us what you did acquire funeral homes versus cemeteries locations? Yes I think we have got – that are reported in this quarter I believe is three funeral homes and one cemetery.
It’s correct and that’s on the West Coast.
Okay perfect.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from A.J.
Rice from UBS.
A.J.
you may go ahead.
Thanks.
Hello everybody.
Just a couple of questions if I could first of all maybe to follow-up on some of the deal-related questions I guess I can see where you guys [Technical Difficulty] Stewart deals step back from the mom-and-pop type acquisition market a little bit.
And now you are back in full bore and that maybe what’s going on.
But I also wondered are you also seeing an uptick in available properties sort of what’s happening in terms of from the seller side out there? Sure A.J.
I think we are seeing like you said before part of it can be timing.
When you took Stewart out as the buyer and waited during that FTC waiting period you took us out of as a buyer.
You had a lot of the potential buyers that were getting their balance sheets and financing ready to buy our divestitures.
There was truly a low on activity for over a year’s period.
And so I think part of this is that pent-up natural transactional flow.
Another thing that I just think it’s getting to a time when you think about these businesses and the generations they have been enhanced we clearly are seeing less and less generational handover I think as time goes on.
And so I think a lot of these businesses are just – it’s the right time for these people to look at diversification and selling the businesses.
So we have seen a pickup in activity.
I can’t tell you how long that’s going to last but I would tell you that we are pretty busy right now and the pipeline looks busy through 2015.
I hope that continues because we are excited about those opportunities.
The other thing I would just point out as we continue to look at opportunities to develop cemetery inventory and diversify our product offerings for consumers and particularly with the bringing on the Stewart businesses there is ample opportunity to do that and those generate high internal rates of return.
We are also looking pretty hard at new builds versus acquisitions and you will probably see a little more activity on that front both combo facilities that we are building as well as some standalone opportunities.
So we see ample opportunity to deploy our cash.
We continue to have a great problem which is generating a lot of cash and deploying it.
But I view that as a real opportunity and really from deploying it for growth which is our first opportunity we still are excited about the share price.
And it’s still a good opportunity for us to buying those shares.
And I think Bob even mentioned we are thinking about the dividend and growing that over time because again with the growth rate of the company we can foresee an opportunity to continue to grow that dividend over the next few years.
Okay.
And one other question on the potential acquisitions are you seeing pricing be relatively constant or valuations relatively constant versus what you have been seeing? Yes I don’t think we have seen any dramatic change.
I think there is always that bid/ask difference that you got to talk through and understand.
And from our perspective we really look at it from our ability to make a difference and I think we have mentioned this before the two real strategic opportunities for us are who are the customers and what value do they bring and then what’s the scale opportunity for us.
And as those things go up it affords us the ability to pay a little bit more.
So we see a variety of pricing depending on which market it is because again we like being in a lot of different markets but it’s going to change by geography and demographic mix and the like.
So yes I think we are in the same general ballpark of where we have been and that’s a very comfortable place for us.
Okay.
And maybe if I could just ask you on the quarter I guess the 4% plus volume increase I understand the comments about the flu but I think it’s your third straight quarter now of positive volumes.
If you drill down in the quarter I know a lot of the flu was early in the quarter late in last quarter did you see consistency in your case growth year-to-year across the quarter? And I don’t know if there is even early read into your second quarter yet on what you have seen so far? Yes A.J.
I think again for us I just don’t ever get in the predicting business.
It’s too hard to tell with the lack of good data but to answer your question it was fairly consistent throughout all three months.
I think March was a little bit less than January and February but they were all solid improvements both December January and February being in the call it 4% to 5% range and March dropping off slightly.
What we are early seeing in April is not that strong as I reported in the first quarter but still on a relative basis really solid performance.
So it’s really hard to understand.
Could some of that be market share? Could some of that be preneed? Surely it could.
And the only reason we caution everyone is history tells us something that if you go back to 2013 we started off about the same way and we ended up slightly down for the year.
So we gave it back in the back half of the year.
So we are just modeling that way.
I hope I am wrong.
But at this point in time we would rather have a little more data to support that thesis and that’s why we are keeping the models where we are.
I tried to move them up but Tanzberger wouldn’t let me so we are where we are.
One last question on the pricing side you are up 1.1% but I think you also made the comment that cremation was sort of flattish.
I guess if you don’t have that headwind from the cremation in the quarter I would thought your pricing might have been a little stronger.
Have you drilled down at all to look at that or any commentary on that? Yes.
I mean we did drill down.
I don’t think it’s something that we see as the long-term trend.
It is short of our expectation as I think I mentioned in our comments.
We would expect it to be a little more.
Having said that I will tell you when we for whatever reason when we see kind of a surge in volume this tends to be the case.
And what we have historically seen is that’s generally bounced back when you saw volume lighten up that the average tends to get a little better.
We don’t have any – we don’t see something that greatly concerns us.
Obviously anything concerns us if we are going to work at it.
But I feel pretty good about the rest of the year.
Absent that Canadian currency situation that again we forecasted but I think as the year goes on particularly next quarter you will continue to see that kind of currency headwind.
But I feel pretty good about where we are.
I was kind of surprised by a flat cremation rate quite honestly but again that could change quarter-to-quarter as well.
Okay alright great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from John Ransom from Raymond James.
Hi just a picky question.
What was the share count at the end of the quarter? I know you did a fair amount of buyback but how did that play out towards the end of the quarter share count? It’s about $202 million at the end of the quarter John and it’s – 202 million shares excuse me at the end of the quarter.
And we started the year just under 205 million shares.
That’s basic.
What about diluted? Diluted was 207 million and I don’t remember where it started.
It was started at like 212 million.
The 207 million I mean that was your share count during the quarter.
So you are saying the ending share count wasn’t much different than the average share count for the quarter? Yes.
What I am saying is is that from a shares outstanding it was about 202 million at the end of the quarter from a diluted perspective to add about 4 million to 5 million of that let’s call it about 207 million.
Okay.
So what’s the good – is that a good number? What do you think a good share count number is for the second quarter kind of in that range or you think it will – I mean your buybacks are obviously continuing? Well I think as I said before subsequent to the quarter we have already started repurchasing shares about 1 million shares are already repurchased.
I would hope that would continue.
Now the other issue is is that we are starting to get a good amount of option exercises from the overhang as well that’s been a curve being at the stock price that we are and that I can’t predict.
But ultimately we hope to continue John as we have shown our track record to continue to whittle it down just like you saw in this quarter from a net basis it whittled down from 204 million to 202 million.
Okay.
And where do you think value – valuations now that you are back in the mom and pop world are valuations better or worse than you thought or about the same? I would say about the same John.
Again I think people are – there has been enough transactions that have occurred since the downturn that it’s kind of leveled off to an area where people understand.
If cemetery business can be slightly different than the funeral business geographies can be different based on demographics but it’s falling within acceptable range.
And how many people are competing with you on funeral homes? I know you got your friends in Houston but do you see anybody else showing up that you are competing against that wasn’t there a couple of years ago? No.
I would say generally it’s the same group of people and depending on the geography it could be a local type buyer but we still continue to see – our goal is to develop relationships with the businesses that that – so when they come up for sale they aren’t people we don’t know.
And so we continue to see opportunities where people approach us and we may or may not compete on a transaction with someone else but from time-to-time we do.
And I would say it’s generally the same people.
There is a few that got created out of this – the merger between SCI and Stewart.
The divestiture process created some new consolidators but again not significant amounts of money.
And so they are going to look at opportunities that present themselves in markets that are conducive for them.
Okay.
And do you feel as badly about Bob’s wife as I do? I wanted to ask you about – your opinion about that? Yes I do.
I just hope next time she sells everything that she calls me first.
Alright thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Duncan Brown from Wells Fargo.
On the terminally imminent contract front how should we think about that going forward I mean will that number eventually be zero? I think the answer is it will never be absolutely zero.
It’s kind of a tricky situation because again we want to take care of the families as best we can.
And so in most places I think we have got a pretty good process to hand off that imminent situation to an at-need arranger that can again handle that contract but sometimes we don’t have that luxury or that option or it just doesn’t fit the situation.
So we are having to continue to write it.
So I think what you see is the diminishing amount of those contracts being imminent and those are going to be written on trust contracts.
It’s right.
So we will continue to identify those for you.
You should see them trend down but again it’s really a customer facing issue and then for us a staffing issue as to how we handle that.
At the end of the day what’s most important is taking care of that family first and foremost.
And we think this process is the best way to do it assuming that’s what’s right for the family and we have the capability internally to deal with that.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then I appreciate the disclosure in the press release regarding how much gross profit was lost due to divestitures.
I wonder if you can give us that number for Q2 just given that I assume it will be a lower number than we saw in Q1 as divestitures ramped last year? I think – Debbie is looking up.
I think it’s around $6 million.
Debbie is that right? In total it would be $6 million.
Yes.
About $3 million $3.5 million this quarter would be about the same Duncan… No you are wrong.
It’s 97 [ph] total between cemetery and funeral was the profit so it’s going to drop from call it $10 million to about $9 million in the second quarter.
Eric is talking about earning per share.
I was talking about EPS.
So second quarter is still pretty big because some of the bigger divestitures didn’t occur until late in the second quarter or early third quarter after the second quarter it drops off significantly.
I think it’s down to like $1 million when you get to the third quarter.
So another quarter of a little bit of a headwind like Eric said call it $0.03 rounded off.
Okay that’s great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We have no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the call over to the SCI management.
Thank you so much for being on the call with us.
We look forward to talking to you again in late July with our second quarter earnings call.
Have a great week.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Hello and welcome to the Second Quarter 2015 Service Corporation International Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Joe and I will be the operator for your call today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode and later we will be conducting a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is also being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to SCI management you may begin.
Good morning everyone.
This is Debbie Young from Investor Relations at SCI.
We hope everyone is doing well today and we appreciate you taking the time to join us as we discuss our results for the second quarter.
Let me begin by covering the customary Safe Harbor language.
The comments made by our management team today will include statements that are not historical and are forward-looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections.
These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those factors identified in our press release and in our filings with the SEC that are available on our website.
Today we may also refer to certain non-GAAP measurements such as normalized EPS adjusted operating cash flow and free cash flow.
Reconciliation of these measurements to the appropriate measures calculated in accordance with GAAP is provided on our website and in our press release and 8-K that were filed yesterday.
With that behind us let’s begin with comments from Tom Ryan SCI’s President and CEO.
Thank you Debbie and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on the call today.
I’m going to begin my comments by giving you the highlights of the quarter then a deeper dive into both funeral and cemetery operations.
And finally I’ll give you some color on our outlook for the back half of 2015.
Beginning with an overview of the quarter we’re very pleased to report normalized earnings per share of $0.28 which is a $0.05 or 22% growth over the prior year period that slightly exceeded our internal expectations.
This growth is even more impressive when you consider that we lost a little more than $0.03 per share from the FTC or Stewart divested businesses that we own in 2014 but we do not have the benefit of this year.
This impressive earnings growth was primarily driven by strong preneed cemetery sales production the impact of our share repurchase program lower interest expense and a slightly lower tax rate.
I want to thank each and every one of my 24 000 teammates for all of they do everyday not only that generate these results but most importantly in helping our client families plan and assisting them on their most difficult days.
Well we’re proud of our operating performance in the first half of 2015 we also never forget it is our responsibility to deploy your precious capital in a way.
During the first half of 2015 we’ve invested $53 million in new acquisitions and have three transactions under letter of intent which should close in the third quarter.
We’ve also returned over $40 million to you through our dividend and have increased your effective ownership level of purchasing approximately $152 million of our outstanding common stock.
Now for an overview of funeral operations.
The results of our comparable funeral segment were better than we expected primarily on higher than anticipated volume.
When compared to the prior year our second quarter funeral revenues increased by nearly $10 million or 2.2%.
This funeral revenue growth was primarily driven by a $6.9 million increase in general agency commissions generated from our preneed funeral sales.
We’re experiencing higher commission rates from our new contract terms of AMLIC as well as selling a higher value customer mix in our sales activity.
Additionally we saw a $4.2 million a 20% increase in recognized preneed revenue.
The general agency and recognized preneed revenue growth was partially offset by a $1.2 million reduction in our core funeral revenue.
Funeral volumes were essentially flat in the quarter while average revenue per case was down $13 or 0.2%.
Excluding the negative currency impact the funeral sales average grew 0.8% during the quarter driven by an increase in our atneed sales average that was partially offset by a lower matured preneed sales average.
Our atneed sales average actually grew about 3% as pricing and packaging had the anticipated positive effect which was slightly offset by an increase in the commission rate.
However our matured preneed sales average was lower as the larger number of our maturing contracts are coming from the SCI direct backlog.
So with $9.9 million increase in funeral revenues we only put $1.7 million into profit so what gives? Think of funeral profitability is coming from three buckets.
First general agency revenue growth should have about a 30% margin after you reduce it for selling expenses.
So a $6.9 million revenue increase generates 2 million in profit.
Second SCI direct revenue growth of $4.2 million generated about a 20% margin or $800 000 profit.
Finally with core revenues down $1.2 million at a 60% margin the negative effect on profit should be about $700 000.
Altogether that would be about $2 million profit increase which is in line with our $1.7 million number.
So to summarize increases in lower margin businesses were partially offset by a decline in higher margin core revenue.
As it relates to preneed comparable funeral sales production excluding terminally imminent situations in both periods grew 3.4%.
Year-to-date through the first six months our preneed funeral sales production growth was about 4% and in line with our low to mid single-digit percentage growth expectations.
Now let's turn to cemetery operations.
Our cemetery segment had an impressive second quarter performance and came in well above our expectations.
Comparable cemetery revenue increased more than $26 million or more than 10% over the prior year quarter led by strong preneed sales and higher trust fund income.
The largest component of the 26 million revenue increase was 18.7 million from recognized preneed cemetery revenue.
While this 12.7 increase is impressive our actual preneed sales production grew by 31.6 million or almost 17%.
That means the net $13 million we did not recognize in the second quarter will get recognized in a future period when the revenue recognition trigger is completed via construction delivery or 10% down payment occurs.
These successes are being driven by higher productivity as our sales velocity or volume increased approximately 10% during the quarter.
[Indiscernible] demographics continue to fuel more sales opportunities which our sales teams are able to capitalize on by further leveraging our investments in tools like our new customer relationship management platform.
We continue to train and manage the right sale behaviors which results in improved outcomes.
In addition to increase velocity we saw more than a 7% increase in average spent per contract as our peered inventory strategy continues to expand and enhance the value of our product and service offering.
Trust fund income growth of $5 million for the quarter was elevated due to capital gain distributions from our perpetual care trust that we're anticipating.
Our success in preneed cemetery sales production is a real testament to the talent of our sales organization and the support from the rest of our team.
Due to first six months of the year total cemetery preneed production was up a remarkable 17.2%.
On this strong performance we would anticipate the comps to comps to moderate somewhat in the back half of 2015 which's still reading to a low double-digit percentage growth for the full year.
Comparable cemetery profits increased $18.4 million in the quarter and margin percentage grew 450 basis points to 26.6%.
Again like funeral let's think of cemetery profits in three buckets.
First we had a $21 million revenue increase from core operations which were at-need and pre-need recognized cemetery production.
This should have about a 65% margin or call it 13.6 million increase in our profit.
Second we had a $5 million increase in trust income which essentially has a 100% margin.
And finally we backlog $13 million in cemetery sales for which we incurred and recognized the selling expense during the period.
So in approximate 20% cost this had a negative $2.6 million effect on profitability at cemetery.
The net effect of these three items result in a $ 16 million projected increase in cemetery profits which approximates our reported increase of $18.4 million.
So to wrap it up we are very pleased about our performance thus far in the year.
For the first six months our same-store funeral profits were up nearly $16 million and funeral margins have increased by 90 basis points.
In the same period comparable cemetery profits have grown 27.6 million margins have improved 350 basis points.
We sold more than $750 million in combined preneed funeral and cemetery sales; representing a growth of just over 70 million or more than 10%.
This all has resulted in a year-to-date normalized earnings per share growth of $0.08 or nearly 16% to $0.59 per share.
Keep in mind all of this was accomplished against the backdrop of losing the contribution from the FTC or its Stewart divestitures.
So on the heel of this strong year-to-date performance we feel comfortable that we're training towards the high-end of our full year 2015 guidance range for normalized earnings per share that we have previously provided.
Our current expectations is that normalized earnings per share will range between $1.22 and $1.28 versus our previous expectation of $1.16 to $1.28.
This brings the midpoint of our guidance up by $0.03.
As we begin the second half of the year we feel good about our ability to continue to delivering solid performance and deploying capital for the benefit of our shareholders to enhance the long term value of the company.
With that I will turn the call over to Eric.
Thank you and good morning everybody.
At first I want to echo Tom's comments about how pleased we are with the performance in the quarter as well as the first six months of the year.
So as usual today I am going to start by commenting on our cash flow results for the second quarter.
And now I would like to talk a little bit about our cash flow outlook for the remainder of 2015.
Also I want to touch on how we deployed our capital this quarter to continue to enhance shareholder value.
So as you saw in our press release that we issued yesterday our adjusted operating cash flow grew $4 million since second quarter to a total of $102 million year-to-date which exceeded our expectations primarily due to the higher than anticipated very strong cemetery preneed sales production.
So little bit more color on this.
Similar to what we said last quarter this growth in cash flow from operations was accomplished despite contributions from FTC divested properties in 2014 that did not benefit us in 2015.
And this was the headwind of about $12 million when you talk about cash flow from operations.
Higher cash receipts primarily on the strong preneed cemetery sales production and higher trust withdrawals helped to offset higher payroll payments.
And a little bit of color here as well.
The higher payroll funding is simply a timing issue due to the way the July 4<sup>th</sup> holiday sale this year and we will see that timing benefit us next quarter.
Also during the second quarter we paid about $15 million more in cash taxes which was expected.
And it was partially offset by the client of $9 million in cash interest payments due to our accretive refinancing that we completed in the prior year quarter.
Maintenance and cemetery development CapEx for the quarter came in at approximately $36 million which was about $8 million higher than the prior year and a little higher than our expectations.
But we do believe this is only related to the timing of this capital deployment and does not change our opinion or affect our full year 2015 CapEx expectations.
So when you deduct these recurring CapEx items we calculate our free cash flow for the second quarter to be $56 million.
A little bit lower than the prior year due to the higher CapEx timing I just noted above but above our internal expectations.
So at the end of the day that's a really good quarter for us in terms of cash flow.
So mid-year through 2015 year-to-date adjusted cash flow from operations has grown $38 million or 14% to $300 million resulting from an earnings growth that Tom has just highlighted as well as improved collections on our preneed sales.
So based on our first half strong results we feel comfortable that we’re trending toward the high end of our original 2015 guidance range with our current expectations for adjusted cash flow from operations now between $475 million to $500 million.
And this was previously $450 million to $500 million.
Our cash tax testament for 2015 based on the mid points of our models remains unchanged at approximately a $125 million for the full year of 2015.
Our guidance for capital spending in 2015 for maintenance and cemetery development CapEx also remains unchanged at a $130 million to a $140 million as I just mentioned gave you a little color on that.
Deducting these recurring CapEx items from our 2015 adjusted cash flow from operations expectations will result in free cash flow in 2015 ranging from $335 million to $370 million which equates to a $1.72 of free cash flow per share at the midpoint of this guidance using a fully diluted weighted average share count of about 205 million shares.
This is only $0.04 less than the $1.76 free cash flow per share we reported on an adjusted basis in 2014; which is pretty impressive when you consider the expected $80 million increase in cash taxes year-over-year and the head win from the loss of cash flows from the Stewart FTC divestiture properties that I just previously mentioned.
So let’s talk about how we deploy this free cash flow in our capital in general during the quarter.
So to begin with we finished the quarter with healthy liquidity of a little more than $400 million consisting of about $200 million of cash on hand and $200 million of availability on our credit facility.
This liquidity positions us well to strategically execute our capital deployment plans.
During the quarter we acquired a funeral cemetery combination facility in South Texas for a total investment of approximately $6 million.
Our leverage which is calculated as net debt to EBITDA in accordance with our credit facility was 3.55 at the end of the quarter.
This is at the lower end of our current targeted leverage range as defined of 3.5 to 3.7 which we continue to believe is the appropriate range for our company and positions us well as we move forward in 2015.
Natural we gave back to our shareholders.
We returned an impressive $100 million of value to our shareholders during the quarter.
In addition to $20 million in dividend payments in the quarter we also repurchased about $80 million or 2.8 million shares during this quarter.
Subsequent to the end of the quarter we have also repurchased just over 1.4 million additional shares for a total investment of approximately $42 million.
Therefore when you look at what we have done so far in 2015 we are repurchased about 7.2 million shares through today for a total investment of over $190 million.
Currently we have just over 200 million shares outstanding and about $46 million of remaining share repurchase authorization from our Board of Directors.
So in conclusion we are proud of our performance in the first half of the year.
And as we look forward we continue to be excited about the remainder of 2015.
And we've been on the road quite a bit this year with our Investor Day as well as meeting with investors and a common theme we continue to hear as that SCI has summed up a boring story but a great cash flow generator that deploys this cash flow back to its shareholders.
And by the way we love being that boring cash flow generator.
So I think that appropriately sums up the SCI story right now and be assured that our management team will continue to work hard to increase the value of your investment in our company.
So operator that concludes our prepared remarks at this time.
We would like to go ahead and turn it over to you to take questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question here comes from Mr.
Chris Rigg from Susquehanna Financial.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
On volumes I think your annual guidance initially was down 1% to 2%.
Obviously at this point you are tracking quite a bit better through mid-year.
Can you give us a sense of how you are thinking about volumes in the back half of the year and for the year overall? Thanks.
Yeah Chris this is Tom.
I think we are very pleased with the comparable volume statistics on the first six month of the year.
I think I'd say it this way I think we feel pretty good about the year ending on positive note.
Having said that in most years where you see an advanced flu season like we have this year it tend to see some follow-up on the back half of the year.
The only other thing I would add in there is that since we created SCI direct the volume statistics on that business are different than say the national trend.
Because they are so preneed oriented as a company we are in that segment we are driving higher volume through the backlog.
So as an example I think in the first half of the year SCI direct up almost 10%.
So that type of trend I would expect that could continue at those types of levels on the back half.
I'd expect the core part of the business to retract somewhat but again I think at this point because what we've seen the first half of the year it's a positive year for volume.
Okay great.
And then just on the acquisitions can you just clarify a little bit I got a little confused so we spent just under $37 million through the first six months but you have done some stuff after the quarter closed.
Can you just tell me better understand exactly what the moving pieces are at this point.
Thanks.
Sure.
We actually I think Eric talked to this at the first.
In the first quarter we closed on to businesses in California and the actual purchase price we had some 10 31 was closer to I think $45 million purchase price.
In the second quarter as Eric mentioned we purchased the businesses in South Texas businesses around $6 million.
We actually had [Indiscernible] letter of intent actually believe we closed one last night that was in South Carolina.
So what we’ve reported so far today are the California and the Texas pieces.
We expect again more to come.
The pipeline looks as we’ve said before pretty good.
And we’re excited about continuing to grow with businesses that fit our footprint and really some great people and some great businesses coming to the company.
Got it.
And then just one last one not directly related to the quarter.
When we were out on the road a few weeks back the concept of having a white paper with regard to preneed accounting came up.
Can you give us a sense for where that stands and when we might see something? Thanks a lot.
Sure Chris.
As you know the accounting is somewhat straightforward on the atneed side but there are some challenges in terms of complexity on the preneed side.
So we have taken our disclosures that are in all of our filings and just kind of taken that same information no new additional information but taken that same information and just tried to simplify some things in tabular formats and use some examples and etcetera.
So we have been working on that Chris after that request and I anticipate that getting out on to our investor tab of our website shortly.
When I say that I am going to say in the next few weeks so everyone should look for that and hopefully that’s a document that would clarify some things but most importantly simplify some things as well for our shareholders and investors.
Perfect thanks a lot.
No problem.
Our next question here comes from A.J.
Rice from UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hello everybody.
Maybe just a follow up on the acquisition question maybe stepping back a little bit further.
A) Is there any change in what you see in pricing wise competition for deals and B) is there it seems like there may be a little pick-up in activity.
Is that right or would you characterize it as a sort of steady stay? Sure A.J.
I would say that we’re really not seeing any real changes.
I think where these deals are crossing the line are pretty much consistent.
We have seen a lot more activity and it’s hard to describe.
I think part of it we believe is related to the whole Stewart transaction because if you think about it with us and Stewart talking obviously we were out of the market for acquisitions for a little bit and then you get a lot of the divestitures they were going to come out.
So a lot of our smaller competitors were raising money in order to buy those and so I think there was a pint up number of build that probably we are experiencing now.
Having said that I also think demographic plan to everything and we are just noticing kind of it as an industry its generational businesses seem to be turning over more with this generation than the previous one.
We are not seeing as many kids wanting to go into the business and so there is probably more deals that are beginning to come out just because of the simple demographics but that's a bit of speculation but we are pleased with the number of businesses.
They are coming available and we are excited about continuing to grow.
Okay.
Maybe then switching over to the cremation it sounds like the above average growth is happening on the Neptune side and then maybe your legacy cremation business pre-Neptune is more tracking what you saw with the atneed business A) is that right and maybe second if the Neptune growth being driven by new market entrance or sales percentage or what’s behind that would you say? Yes I think it's two things A.J.
We study this quite a bit when we entered the business and purchased Neptune back when we did and we really saw these two businesses as two separate consumers that we’re trying to drive penetration with.
And because remember we said that what Neptune was doing was aggressively preneed selling to consumer that was primarily driven by price.
And so I think that consumer is very likely to preneed that consumer wasn't likely to come to one of our funeral homes before.
So I think you are exactly right we are seeing more growth on that that side of the business partially because of the way we approached that consumer.
I think on the SCI direct side probably 20% to 25% of our business that need walk-in and 75% to 80% is preneed going atneed you can almost reverse that for the core business.
It's probably 30% 35% walk-in I am sorry 60% - 65% walk-in and 35% preneed going atneed so that's the reason for seeing I would say more market share pickup within that segment on SCI direct.
So I would say you – I pause this is correct as far as I am concerned A.J.
Okay.
And then my last one maybe is last year lot of things have been going on last 18 months in the organization obviously integrates Stewart you had the initiative last fall around your restructuring some of the preneed sales commissions it seems like a lot of that is now in place.
Is this just the time sort of blogging and run the business or are there some other initiatives looking out 12 to 18 months 12 to 24 months that it will be worth maybe highlighting? I think it's a constant challenge to wake up every morning and drive.
If you think about it A.
J.
the biggest things on our plate right now really won't change the tools we use maybe different one is relevance to the consumer we got irrelevant we got to provide products and services that people find value in life well celebrated is the campaign that we have rolled out and continued to emphasize the changing consumer wants and needs and making sure we are adapting to those.
And then the big part of our strategy has always been preneed.
We think preneed differentiates us from our competitors.
We think it's a real strategic advantage for us and so we invest lot of money and time and attention on continuing to go preneed cemetery as well as preneed funeral which we know will enhance our market share in the future as the baby boomers begin to impact the funeral segment.
So really our strategies haven't changed.
We may have new tools that we are introducing but we are laser focused on the customer and laser focused on both the atneed customer and on the preneed customer.
Okay great thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question here comes from Robert Willoughby from Bank of America.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Eric did you mention what the expected divested store facility hit might be in the third quarter? No it didn't.
It terms of cash flow it was about $24 million year-to-date so if you think of an earnings per share perspective then it's about $3.5 first quarter $3.5 second quarter and I think it's like another penny in the back half.
So really moderate in the back half of the year Robert.
Okay and just thinking about the balance between the share repurchases and the deals given where the stock is is there a level in your mind where the deals will take greater precedence here you obviously stepped them up but could we see the deals slow pickup more meaningfully and ensure both come down a bit at some point here? Well I think the deals are out like the share repurchases today I mean the IRA is that we have been doing as we have disclosed being anywhere from 12% to 22% and that's a tremendous value to our shareholders to deploy capital with that type of return so frankly growing the business as well on top of that capital deployment is a strong desire of ours that frankly has been outranking it.
But it’s the time where you have to have the deals come to us in a meaningful way as we’ve described before.
Ultimately when you shift then to deployment to our share repurchases it’s a function of various matrix and forming an opinion internally on what we think the intrinsic value of the company is.
And there’s plenty of different ways that we do that whether it’s DCF calculations or other various quantitative means.
But at the end of the day we are comfortable if these levels continuing to repurchase our shares and deploy capital back to our shareholders.
Okay and maybe lastly just in terms of focusing on the deals and the returns that they can generate.
Have there been any renewed thoughts about looking overseas again? We did a deeper dive on that a while back Robert.
And I then concluded that the best thing we can do right now there is more than ample opportunity in the markets that we already are in here in the States and Canada.
So that remains our near term focus to grow the business.
We are constantly will look at things from evaluating and risk reward and I’d say our best risk reward is right here in the U.S.
and Canada.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from John Ransom from Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Did you guys say you were boring? I think that’s bad I don’t believe that.
No he told us we are boring if you remember.
Well I and buddy the boring it is.
Let’s talk a little bit if you don’t mind about Canada.
I think that market is maybe a little less known than the U.S.
So could you talk about how – I know you talked about your market share in the U.S.
plus Canada but what’s the Canadian opportunity? How many big lumpy assets are there? How does pricing compare? How does the fundamentals compare to the U.S.
and how do you rank the attractiveness other than obviously its 1/10<sup>th</sup> the size of the U.S.
in terms of number of people.
Yeah.
I guess John I’d say this.
I don’t have the specific market share of Canada but I'd say it pretty well reflects -- it's probably about the same or slightly above the U.S.
our market share.
All right.
We love Canada.
[Indiscernible] you will get carried away.
Oh I do.
I like him.
I mean Rush is from Canada and a lot of great bands.
So we’ll continue to look at those markets and we’re having conversations all the time in the Canadian markets.
I think the pricing is relatively similar.
So we're excited about the ability to grow in Canada and particularly in Toronto and Vancouver and places where we've really got good infrastructure and can continue to grow in those markets.
Are there proportionally more sizable assets there than they are left in the U.S.
since you've done a pretty good job mopping up some of the opportunities in U.S.? We've done a pretty good job there too.
So I don't see that's any different.
So again we look at those opportunities through the same lens and let's say they look about the same.
We've seen a decent amount of activity and discussion in Canada and we are excited about it.
Okay.
I'd have to remind you that just [Indiscernible] results are from Canada.
So kind of pre-enthusiasm.
All right thank you.
And you know what he's not boring.
And here it appears we have no further questions.
I would now like to turn the call back over to SCI.
We want to thank everybody for participating in the call today.
We look forward to seeing you again for our third quarter release which I believe Eric will be in.
End of October.
Thanks again.
I appreciate it.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2015 Service Corporation International Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Hilda and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to the SCI management team.
Good morning.
This is Debbie Young from Investor Relations at SCI.
Thanks for joining us today.
As customary let me being our call with the Safe Harbor statement.
The comments made by our management team today will include statements that are not historical and are forward-looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections.
These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those factors identified in our press release and in our filings with the SEC that are available on our website.
In today’s comments we may also refer to certain non-GAAP measurements such as normalized EPS adjusted operating cash flow and free cash flow.
Reconciliation of these measurements to the appropriate measures calculated in accordance with GAAP is provided on our website and in our press release and 8-K that were filed yesterday.
So now let’s begin with comments from SCI’s Chairman and CEO Tom Ryan.
Thank you Debbie and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on the call today.
I’d like to start this earnings call by reflecting on some of our major accomplishments in 2015.
Then I will get into the details of the quarter and end with some color on our outlook for the year 2016.
So first some observations on 2015.
First and foremost I'm most proud of what we do for our client families each and every day providing piece of mind and making their worst day just a little bit better.
There are also milestones as a public company that we should be proud of and these are few I would like to highlight.
First while maintaining our position as the largest by-far in our industry with 16% market share and $3 billion in revenues.
We were able to grow earnings per share again in 2015 to $1.18 per share which translates to an impressive 16% annualized rate since 2011.
We also reported record adjusted operating cash flow of approximately $514 million for the year and deployed $433 million to return to our shareholders through share buybacks and an increasing dividend.
We continued our momentum in preneed cemetery sales by growing them over 12% for the year and at a compounded double digit rate over the last five years.
We also received the prestigious J.D.
Power President's Award in recognition of our high quality service to our customers.
One of only 12 recipients in J.D.
Power’s 47 year history scoring with the likes of Ritz Carlton in customer satisfaction and loyalty.
And finally for our shareholders we delivered a 17% total shareholder return versus a flat S&amp;P for the 2015.
And now we’ve delivered a significant premium to the S&amp;P return for the one three- five- and ten year periods ending in 2015.
So I would like to say thank you to my 2 400 teammates to continue to work tirelessly to serve and support our families at the greatest time of need.
It is because of your efforts everyday that we are able to accomplish what we have.
Now let’s shift to an overview of the fourth quarter.
We reported normalized earnings per share of $0.37 which was consistent with the prior year period and within the guidance range provided to you back in October of $0.36 to $0.39.
Adjusting for the $0.04 prior year perpetual care benefit earnings per share grew approximately 12% despite headwinds of lower funeral volume impacted by a mild comparative flu season the negative impact of Canadian currency and lower trust fund income due to the volatility in the financial markets.
These headwinds were more than overcome by strong preneed cemetery sales product the impact of our share repurchase program and the lower tax rate.
On the cash flow front we generated $89 million in adjusted operating cash flow which again was well within our guidance range despite expected higher cash tax payments of $22 million year-over-year.
Now for an overview of funeral operations in the quarter.
When compared to the prior year our fourth quarter comparable funeral revenues decreased by $11.1 million or 2.4%.
This is below our expectations as lower funeral volumes negative currency trends and lower trust fund income put pressure on our funeral revenues.
As noted in the press release poor revenues declined $19 million or 4.7%.
A comparable funeral volume decline of 4.2% was the primary reason.
As far as core funeral average goes we experienced a 1.2% growth at the customer level.
However revenues in average were negatively affected by $5.3 million as a result of the Canadian dollar trading at $0.75 versus the prior year at $0.88 as well as a $2.6 million negative impact from lower trust fund income and an 80 basis point increase in the cremation mix.
Outside of core revenues we saw increases from SCI-Direct of approximately $3.4 million or 13.1% as non-funeral home matured preneed volume or performance of funeral services increased over 7% and recognized preneed sales of earns in travel protection increased $3.2 million or almost 16%.
Other revenue grew $4.5 million or 13.2% which primarily consist of general agency commission earned from preneed insurance sales production.
Funeral profit therefore decreased $8.8 million from the prior year quarter and margins were 20% compared to 21.4% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Core profit declines were partially offset by increased profits from SCI-Direct and general agency commission.
Comparable preneed funeral sales production excluding terminally imminent transactions in both periods was essentially flat or down about $1 million.
Keep in mind we were facing a very difficult comparison as the prior year quarter growth rate was nearly 12%.
For the full year preneed funeral sales production increased $24 million or 3.4%.
This is consistent with our annual guidance of low to mid-single digit growth.
Now let’s turn to cemetery operations.
Overall comparable cemetery results was the highlight of the quarter as operating performance was ahead of our expectations.
Comparable core cemetery revenue grew $15.2 million or 5.9% in the fourth quarter due to higher recognized preneed revenue which was reduced by lower atneed revenue and the negative effects of Canadian currency.
Preneed sales production was the primary driver as they grew by $12.1 million or 6.8% through increases in both average customer spend as well as increased sales contract velocity.
Additionally revenue associated with the completion of construction projects which from a seasonal perspective tend to be more pronounced in the fourth quarter contributed the balance of the core revenue increase.
Other revenue declined $17.2 million primarily as a result of the $15 million perpetual care trust fund income benefit reported in the prior year.
Additionally our normal trust fund income declined $2.2 million due to unfavorable market returns.
Therefore comparable cemetery profits decreased $8.6 million as the $15 million perpetual care trust income benefit reported in the prior year was 100% profit.
Excluding that unique item cemetery gross profit grew $6.4 million and margins increased 70 basis points to 31.5%.
This growth resulted from the $15.2 million core revenue increase which should produce 60% incremental margin or approximately $9 million.
This increase was partially reduced by $2.2 million in normalized trust fund income.
Now shifting to our 2016 outlook.
As we disclosed in our prerelease we are providing 2016 earnings per share guidance in the range of $1.20 to $1.36.
Since we provided preliminary guidance to you back in October we’ve continued to see negative financial market returns as well as a weaker Canadian dollar as we are not in the business of predicting the future for the stock market or currency movements for that matter rather than moving the entire range down from our previous guidance below the bottom of the range by $0.04.
At the midpoint of our range expectations for growth in 2016 still falls within the 8% to 12% range even after considering these headwinds and a slightly higher tax rate.
While we do not provide quarterly guidance from a timing perspective please keep in mind that we had a very strong flu season in the first quarter last year up almost 5% in funeral volume and had a 17% growth in preneed cemetery sales production.
So it is going to be a very tough comparison this year under any scenario.
This January we saw decline in funeral volume of over 12% which was consistent with what we saw in our market share checks and in conversations with other industry participants.
Therefore the first quarter should be a challenging comparison.
After that we would expect to get back to traditional earnings per share growth trends for the remainder of 2016.
For the year we expect funeral volumes to be down slightly with a slight growth in core funeral average excluding currency mix and trust income.
We expect SCI Direct to go high single digits and general agency commissions to grow in the mid single digits and we will manage our cost aggressively.
We also expect to grow preneed funeral sales in the low to mid single digit percentage range.
On the cemetery side of things we anticipate revenues will continue to increase led by preneed sales production growth in the mid to high single digit percentage range.
So in conclusion we expect continued growth of the business around the assumption that demographics are moving towards us.
We will continue our strategy of growing revenues are remaining relevant and driving preneed sales now and into the future.
We will continue to leverage scale differentially through our sales organization through supply chain and technology and through our preneed trust and insurance backlog.
Finally we will continue to deploy capital towards the [indiscernible] like growing through acquisition and new builds increasing our dividend and shrinking the equity base in anticipation of the demographic impact come.
All the while we will protect this great company by maintaining a fortress balance sheet carefully managing both our liquidity and trajectory profile.
This concludes my prepared comments and I’ll now turn the call over to Eric.
Thank you Tom and thank you everybody for joining us this morning.
And before I dive too deep into the details I want to stay back up at 2015 full year versus 2014 and just really reiterate how proud we are of our financial results for the full year of 2015.
And of course I’d like to thank our nearly 24 000 both dedicated and talented associates that really drove this outstanding performance throughout 2015.
So this morning I’m going to be addressing our annual cash flow results as well as the capital deployment that we did in 2015.
I also want to talk about our cash flow in the quarter and I also want to give you some more color and some comments related to cash flow for our outlook for 2016.
So first let me start by taking an opportunity to again step back and reiterate our capital deployment philosophy.
We’ve been executing this for the past several years.
So to begin our consistent and predictable cash flows from all of the basis of our overall strategy to drive increased value for our shareholders.
Looking at 2015 we generated $514 million and adjusting operating cash flow which by the way is the highest we have achieved in many many years.
Complementing this strong operating cash flow base we maintain robust liquidity and we manage our near term debt maturities.
So with those factors at the backdrop we then deployed capital to achieve the highest relative total shareholder return through our choices of acquisitions growth CapEx dividends and share repurchases and the results have been impressive.
For the five years ended December 31 2015 we have achieved about 245% total shareholder return when you compare to the S&amp;P 500 of about 80% and you can be assure that we intend to keep our focus on growing the value of your investment in SCI over time.
So with that backdrop let me give you an overview of our cash flows for the full year of 2015 and then dive into the capital deployment that I just said.
So as I just mentioned in 2015 we generated $514 million in adjusting operating cash flows compared to $509 million in 2014.
But to really give you a more accurate picture of these 2015 cash flows I really need to highlight a couple of items when you compare to 2014.
First we paid $51 million more of recurring cash taxes during 2015 compared to 2014 as again we moved closer to become a full cash tax payer.
Secondly we benefited from approximately $27 million of operating cash flows in 2014 that were associated with the FTC divestitures that we have previously mentioned.
So when you really normalize those two items I think of adjusting operating cash flow in 2014 of being about $431 million versus the $514 million in 2015 which by the way is a growth of over 19% and the drivers of the cash flow growth of predominantly the higher earnings that Tom just described and higher cash receipts primarily associated with strong preneed cemetery sales.
So we also finished 2015 with healthy liquidity of $335 million which consisted of $135 million of cash on hand that you’ve seen on our balance sheet and about $200 million of availability on our longer term credit facility.
This strong liquidity through 2015 positioned us well to deploy a healthy amount of capital towards what I’ve already mentioned acquisitions dividends and share repurchases.
And in fact when you include some 1031 exchange funds we deployed $69 million in acquisitions in 2015 which reflects a 176% increase over the $25 million that we invested in acquisitions in the prior year.
Dividend payments in 2015 totaled about $88 million again an increase of over 22% compared to 2014 payments of just over $70 million.
We also returned $345 million of capital to investors in 2015 in the form of share repurchases which is the largest annual amount we have repurchased since 2007.
So in total $433 million in capital was returned in 2015 to our shareholders through these combined share repurchases and dividends which by the way is 37% or $180 million more than 2014 levels.
So now let’s shift gears and talk a little bit about cash flow during the quarter.
We generated $89 million of adjusted operating cash flow in the fourth quarter which was well within our guidance range communicated to you in October which was $75 million to $100 million.
Similar to the full year though let me provide a bit more color on these cash flows for the fourth quarter.
First our recurring cash tax payments were $22 million higher in the fourth quarter of 2015 versus the fourth quarter of 2014.
And in addition to this $22 million as a side note we also paid about $10 million in non-recurring cash taxes which was associated with the restructuring of some of our legal entities.
Secondly during the quarter though we also funded about $12 million more in payroll quarter-over-quarter which is really just the timing difference due to the timing of the New Year’s holiday this year versus last year.
Lastly when you think of the quarters also I want to address two cash flow items that are similar amounts that really occur to both quarters.
If you remember in the fourth quarter of 2014 we received $15 million of perpetual care trust capital gains that did have a corresponding earnings impact that Tom just mentioned earlier.
In the fourth quarter of 2015 though we also received a similar amount of $15 million but will firm our cemetery merchandise and service trust capital gains and those will not have an earnings impact until at the time we deliver or perform that underlying merchandise and services on those preneed contracts.
So now let’s shift to talk about 2016.
As you saw yesterday in our press release we’ve finalized our guidance for 2016 to generate a solid $450 million to $500 million of adjusted operating cash flows.
Our range has slightly decreased due to the acceleration of a $50 million of cemetery MSC capital gains that was received in the fourth quarter of 2015 that I just mentioned.
And just our models previously reflected that receipt of those funds in the first quarter of 2016.
We also turf when you think of our guidance a more measured approach to our expectations from normal trust related capital gain distributions due to the recent market conditions.
While we expect to pay more in cash taxes in 2016 over 2015 the good news is that our expectations for these cash tax payments in 2016 have now been lowered to approximately $140 million which compares to $160 million from our previous guidance that we disclosed to you last quarter and that’s primarily driven by further tax plan.
Our expectations for maintenance and cemetery development capital spending in 2016 are approximately $150 million.
This is slightly higher than 2015 levels as we continue to improve the aesthetics of our funeral businesses and most importantly reinvest in our cemetery businesses by constructing relevant and contemporary cemetery property inventory.
So when you deduct that CapEx from the operating cash flow our guidance for normalized free cash flow in 2016 is a range of $300 million to $350 million.
This does compare to free cash flow of $372 million in 2015 so the primary cause for the year-over-year variance is associated with the increase in cash tax payments in 2016 versus 2015 which is an increase of about $47 million.
Additionally we are expecting a greater use of preneed working capital as our cemetery preneed property installment sales continue to experience robust growth.
So in conclusion 2015 was a great year for us as we have generated very robust free cash flow and when I look forward to 2016 we expect to repeat the consistent capital deployment philosophy which we executed in both 2014 and 2015.
We of course will continue to maintain adequate liquidity of beneficial near term debt maturity profile and think of our leverage range of about 3.25 to just below 4 times.
So we will continue then to deploy that free cash flow towards acquisitions dividends and share repurchases.
And in fact since closing on the Stewart acquisition in December 2013 we have repurchased almost 25 million shares for a total investment of just over $600 million which includes by the way 1 million shares we have repurchased subsequent to the end of 2015 for just under $25 million.
Currently today we have just under $195 million shares outstanding and about $255 million of remaining share repurchase authorization which again gives us substantial amount of capital deployment flexibility as we move forward in 2016.
Ultimately though we will continue our balanced approach to driving shareholder value by focusing on deploying that capital to the highest relative value opportunity and again this has been our track record and you can expect us to continue this value enhancement approach well into the future.
So with that operator that concludes my remarks and Tom’s prepared remarks and we’re going to go ahead and shift the call now over to take questions from the investors.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] We have a question from Scott Schneeberger from Oppenheimer.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
I guess first question I’d like to start off with would be the trust funds.
Have you had conversations with the investment managers about how they are positioning given the volatility in the equity market share to date? And then just some thoughts about how that maybe impacting – obviously you’ve adjusted guidance the low end a little bit for 2016 how you’re thinking about the cadence of impact of the equity markets as you move through the year? What’s implied in guidance as far as what’s your prior expectation was still now? Thanks.
Scott the way we are set up is we interact almost daily with our registered investment advisor.
We do talk to our trustees and periodically we do have meetings we probably have 25-ish professional institutional money managers and we do have several conversations during the quarter just to further our understanding but in no way are we influenced in that.
We believe in our asset allocation over the long term it is worth for us successfully as we’ve had generated a real return of about just over 3%.
I’ll call it over the last trailing 10 years and that’s additional earnings and cash flow to us in the future and we’re going to maintain that discipline.
Now talking about the guidance in terms of what you’re referring to yes we did bring down the low end of our guidance as it relates to some of the performance that we saw subsequent to the last time we talked to you in October.
So when we talk to you in October the trust funds are off about 1% year-to-date.
They ended the year down 1% so we had that swing primarily in the month of December.
Since then in January our trust funds are about down 3% and ultimately to recall the metric that we try to give for every one percent or so that are trust funds drop on an annualized basis and again as a very general statement it equates about $1.5 million of EBITDA.
So but we don’t want to get into this game of trying to predict of what we think the markets are going to do.
So generally yes we’ve taken down the low end of the guidance but we didn’t want to infer that we wouldn’t come back during the year either and that’s why we maintain that high-end of the guidance but ultimately we have this plugged in where we do think that our standard way of modeling which is the markets would generally be flat to slightly up is what’s built in to the mid-point of our models in our guidance.
Great thanks.
That’s helpful.
As a follow-up I would like to ask obviously you have some nice momentum in preneed sales and cemetery I’m curious how you think about that as well as funeral in an economy that might be uncertain where consumer confidence might be uncertain it is after all discretionary spend but maybe some anecdotal history as to your confidence on why that would hand in in this environment what you have seen in the past and what would lead you to such conclusion? Thanks.
Sure Scott this is Tom.
I think based upon historical observation when you go back to 2008 2009 when the world looked like it was going to end and the markets were down 30% and 40% we did see a temporary pause in pre-arrangement and it probably lasted three or four months and really lasted through March of 2009 and I must admit surprisingly to me it bounced back pretty dramatically beginning in April.
And so I think the conclusion we had is that this is probably the least volatile discretionary purchase you could have in the sense that it’s a planning item that people want to resolve.
So even in bad times I think people try to find a way to deal with this so there is an added pressure on their survivors.
So I think generally you are going to find people stand pretty attentive from a contract flow perspective.
What I will say when there is financial uncertainty or down markets is you do tend to see the high end drive a bit.
So as an example we even saw some of the fourth quarter we did not see the same robust level of what I called high value sales on the cemetery side that we did in the fourth quarter of last year.
So I do think it’s more sensitive at the high end as far as what people are willing to spend but relative to other discretionary businesses I like our odds.
Alright thanks.
If I could sneak one more in and then I would turn it over.
Could you speak to the M&amp;A environment right now you gave some color on the call about 2015 versus 2014 what are the thoughts as we enter 2016 and what are you seeing out there with regard to the targets susceptibility or openness to talk thanks.
Yeah I think we are seeing a healthy level of openness to talk you know we’ve got a few under letter of intent as we speak today we got a couple other in negotiating stage so I’d say that we feel really good about the activity level.
You know the way that we try to do it is to maintain relationships with businesses that we’re attracted to that’s predominantly what we are doing.
And these are going to turn when it is time for them.
And so generally there is a transition from an owner to the children or something like that where that is and what’s going to work for that family and we want to be in a position to understand the opportunity SCI presents to their employees then themselves and staying involved.
So most of the time that is what it is we do see a few broker deals as well but we feel really good about what we’re seeing and therefore pretty comfortable with the guidance that we put out there as to what we think will be able to accomplish this year.
Okay thanks I will turn over.
The next question comes from Chris Rigg from Susquehanna.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Just wanted to follow-up on the operating cash flow guidance change you know obviously you had the pull forward of some of the trust income into the fourth quarter that seems like there was a substantial if not entirely offset by lower cash taxes.
So when we think about what’s causing the 25 million [indiscernible] I know you laid out a bunch of items can you help us quantify or at least sort of force rank what’s causing the biggest impact versus the least impact? Thanks.
I think generally Chris we expect to continue to have robust preneed cemetery property sales.
And for the most part those will be sold on an installment basis and as we grow I think that creates as you recognize that revenue under our counting as you know after 10% down and is constructed.
That creates a use of cash because you are recognizing revenue today and installment sales is going to come in over the next three to five years it is the way I would describe it.
I would also talk about that there is some normalized level and each state is complex and each state is different under these Trust bonds.
As a general statement there is a normal amount of let’s call it $10 million to $20 million of capital gain distributions that we get from these trustees based on the performance of the trust funds.
And I think we also obviously is what I was trying to say as we’ve taken those down as well.
We’ve also continued to drive some sources in working capital related to days sales outstanding and as you start squeezing it down there is only so much you could do as well and so those all those factors Chris were kind of taken into account as well as the $15 million that was pulled forward to the fourth quarter 2015 when we talked about the general guidance of $450 million to $500 million.
Okay.
And then just on the volume outlook I think unless I missed you just said low single digits which I think is I think you were down 1% to 2% in the guidance from last fall has there been any change to that outlook today? Yeah Chris this is Tom.
So we saw as you heard in my comments January was not a pretty volume up down some [20%].
We still feel comfortable about the low single digit guidance for the year and let me explain a couple of reasons why.
Number one just to give you a more color on January we have a new market share tracking capability in certain markets.
So we are looking at that and we are again seeing market share trends the same.
Our volume in SCI Direct was down 10%.
This is a business that tends to grow.
So again we know [indiscernible] we talked to suppliers and so we feel very comfortable that this is a market phenomenon that occurred in January.
So to give you a little history in 2014 volume was down 11% for SCI.
We finished the year down 2%.
Go back to 2012 volume was down some 4.5% we finished the year flat.
So I think what we see I would like to go further back in history as we look at these things we tend to gain back some of that loss throughout the year typically in the back half of the year as you begin to enter the next comparison.
So we feel pretty good and we are still modeling like you said a little deterioration in the annual but not a lot because we think most of it comes back as the year progresses.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Okay.
We have a question from A.J.
Rice from UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi everybody.
I know usually your biggest swing factor in your EPS range would be the I think I would say the uncertainty around what the volumes are going to be and I guess today you are introducing as well given the volatility of the market the Trust funds are there any other big items that swing you around in your range or are those really the two drivers that will determine whether you get to the higher end or the lower end of the range? Well I think from a revenue perspective you see FX having an impact A.J.
but as you know as you drop it down at the bottom it is probably as impactful or less impactful than the Trust fund side.
So really the other big number for us in my opinion is preneed cemetery sales.
So if that were for whatever reason not to grow or flat or go backwards that is going to have a pretty big impact on our numbers.
So we still feel good about that number but I think the biggest one other than that you hit upon is going to be funeral volume.
The other two are impactful but I would say less impactful as you think about the volatility or order.
And just to come back on the preneed cemetery side in light of the volatility and the market little uncertainty on the economy clearly not what we saw in 2008 2009 are you guys making any changes or adjustments to your compensation programs for your sales people to try to either maintain the strong results you are seeing or even potentially pick it up in-light of some soft volumes on the funeral side is there anything you can do there? I think not so much.
We also tweak from time to time but I don’t think January sales were as bad as they could have been expected to be and we really kind of maintain a posture with the sales force to really look at the long term of these things.
So we are not going to reactive we feel good about our compensation programs.
We feel good about the opportunities that are out there A.J.
so no.
I wouldn’t say we are doing any kind of reactionary things we are going to achieve our numbers we feel good about that and so the short answer is no.
Right okay.
And then final question on the thinking about the share repurchase I know 18 24 months ago there was a discussion about recap and other things you could do and I think the company went through the process and said look we will stick with our netting and buyback with the free cash flow not going to hit that point lever the balance sheet up and I understand the comments today about maintain fortress like balance sheet but it is with the market pull back it sounds like you are going back to couple hundred million buyback mode absent some bigger deal coming down the pipe is that the right way to think about it or is there anything because of the pull back in the shares that you perceived that you will be able to present with an unusual opportunity and you might actually take on a little leverage to accelerate the buyback? Well I think we will be like the guidance says we want to maintain fortress balance sheet we want to make sure we survive if things got really bad economically again outside the control of SCI.
So we will be aggressive within that realm.
I don’t foresee us at this point in time changing our strategy as it relates to leverage on the company and any super aggressive way.
Having said that you never say never but in today’s environment I think we will be aggressive within the realm of maintaining that fortress balance sheet.
Okay.
Alright thanks a lot.
Okay.
[Operator Instructions] We have a question from Duncan Brown from Wells Fargo.
Hi good morning.
Maybe going back to the outlook for preneed cemetery sales I think Tom you said bad years historically some of the high end of that business has been hit and maybe at risk can you help us think about or quantify what percentage of preneed cemetery relates to the high end side of the business? I don’t have the specific numbers in front of me but to give an example of numbers of contract if I remember this right and Steve help me if I am wrong.
[indiscernible] 130 is about the high end and it is over [indiscernible].
So I think it is the high end the way to think about it is we will do for instance last year’s fourth quarter you did 300 something high end sales of refunds is that right and this year we did 250.
So the fall off is call it 20% and the number of contracts above is $20 000? $40 000.
So contact is about $40 000 quantify that as somewhere between 250 and 300 is thinking about those and so what you will tend to see is in these types of uncertainties you might see that drop off some 20% 25% and you can quantify that number types of $40 000.
So it is in - by any strategy I don’t want to alarm you this challenge is your ability to grow year-over-year I think is the way to model it.
So we believe we will continue to grow contract count because they go back to the fact that in certain times people tend to plan and the real issues gets around can you get those over 40 000 or in some cases million dollar sales that just don’t happen when the stock markets go down 20% because people are waiting to see it bottom but generally those are people that differ and make that purchase when things get better.
So we will manage through it.
Okay that is helpful and I appreciate the granularity and also appreciate the color on January volumes in the historical context can you I mean since you called that out can you tell us what January 2015 volume were where they up on outsized amount relative to Q1 2015 so they are a particularly difficult comp? Yeah January last year was up over 5% 5.1% is my recollection of that.
So therefore as you could expect that was going to be a tough comp no matter what happens and so that is why I tried to even thought we give quarterly guidance Q1 is going to be tough on a comparable basis.
But we feel really positive about the quarters afterwards that we can regain that moment of growing our earnings per share like you guys expect but I do think we got to get our helmet on Q1 is not going to be a pretty comp just won’t be.
Appreciate it.
Thanks.
And last one from me I think historically you have talked about a 3.5 to 3.7 leverage target sounds like maybe I don’t want to put words in Eric’s mouth may be it sounded like just below 4 times is there an official change in the leverage target or what should we leverage a range or how should we think about that? I think it is just you know what we’ve evolved and said is going to be around 3.75 as well and I was just trying to get color and make sure people understand our thought which is we really believe in this environment couples with liquidity and near term debt maturity profiles under control.
This kind of stay below 4 times it bumped up to and into the year about 3.8.
I think some of the volume that we talked about in the back half of the quarter fell off towards December.
Some of the financial markets again [indiscernible] income sell off in December.
So price bumped a little bit higher but no philosophical change Duncan I wouldn’t think of it that way.
I just think when you start having point two of a range it is a little bit tougher and it is implying a sense of accuracy and it is probably not always there beauce we are we are such long terms thinkers in terms of guidance and such.
So that is all I was trying to say.
Got it.
Thank you.
Yeah.
We have a follow-up question from Chris Rigg from Susquehanna.
Thanks for taking me again here.
Just a follow-up on a earlier question with regard to capital deployment broadly you know the stock is down about 33% from its summer highs does that change the way you guys think about buy backs versus M&amp;A just giving the magnitude you got to sell off doesn’t seem to reflect the underlying performance of the business thanks.
Yeah definitely on a relative basis Chris it is a good question.
The stock becomes much more attractive but I think the good news is we like to say about acquisitions from a long-term perspective and you think about our strategy of growing revenues through preneed about leveraging the scale of the business and then generating more cash to redeploy acquisition always a near and dear part of our equation.
And also if you think about the internal rates return they tend to get I would say most of our acquisitions are in the 14 to 15 type of IRR return and the stock even at these levels is a great return but it is probably not that level of return.
So the acquisition is still probably pop-up number one but from a timing perspective if we can get to low 20s we are going to - that's an opportunity for us.
Okay thanks again.
Thank you and at this time I would like to turn the call back over to the SCI management.
Okay we want to thank everybody for being on the call today.
We appreciate your participation and we will look forward to speaking to you again on our first quarter results in April.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q3 2015 Service Corporation International Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Ethan and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to the SCI management team you may begin.
Good morning this is Debbie Young from Investor Relations at SCI.
We hope everyone is doing well this morning.
We have a lot of material recovery today so I’ll quickly begin with the Safe Harbor statement.
The comments made by our management team today will include statements that are not historical and are forward-looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections.
These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those factors identified in our press release and in our filings with the SEC that are available on our website.
In today’s comments we may also refer to certain non-GAAP measurements such as normalized EPS adjusted operating cash flow and free cash flow.
Reconciliation of these measurements to the appropriate measures calculated in accordance with GAAP is provided on our website and in our press release and 8-K that were filed yesterday.
So let’s now begin with comments from Tom Ryan SCI’s President and CEO.
Thank you Debbie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on the call today.
I’m going to begin my comments by giving you the highlights of the quarter and then a deeper dive into both funeral and cemetery operations.
And finally I’ll give you some color on our updated outlook for the fourth quarter of 2015 as well as our preliminary outlook for 2016.
Beginning with an overview of the quarter we’ve reported normalized earnings per share of $0.23 which was consistent with the prior year period and slightly below our internal expectations.
Recall that in 2014 we benefited from the Federal Trade Commission divestiture businesses that we didn’t have in 2015.
From the third quarter this headwind was about a penny so on a normalized basis we actually grew earnings per share by a penny.
Higher preneed cemetery sales production the impact of our share repurchase program and the lower tax rate at the anticipated effect of improving our earnings performance.
Unfortunately something did not go on our way the approximate 17% devaluation of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S.
had a one penny negative effect on the quarter impacting both funeral and cemetery margins.
Additionally the 530 basis point negative swing in our trust fund performance during the quarter reduced our earnings per share by another penny impacting both the funeral and cemetery segments.
Finally as we had anticipated our strong first half funeral volume appear to normalize and third quarter core volume was 2.2% lower versus 2014 putting pressure on comparable funeral margins.
On the cash flow front working capital improvements from higher cash receipts tied to our success in preneed cemetery sales production in the timing of a payroll funding more than offset a $25 million increase in normalized cash taxes paid allowing us to grow our cash flow from operating activity.
We continue to deploy capital to enhance shareholder value during the quarter utilizing just over a $153 million for share repurchases returning $24 million to an increased dividend investing over $14 million in cemetery inventory and using over a $11 million during the quarter for acquisitions and newly constructed funeral homes.
Now for an overview of funeral operations when compared to the prior year our third quarter comparable funeral revenues decreased by $3.6 million.
I apologize in advance for the detail there but in order to better understand what’s happening within our funeral segment you will notice on page 3 of the earnings release and please do follow along here if you have in front of you that we’ve broken out non-funeral home matured preneed revenue on its own line item.
We combined the atneed revenue and funeral home matured preneed revenue arriving at core revenue as you will see core revenue and non-funeral home matured preneed revenues have very different growth trends.
So the $3.6 million decrease in comparable funeral revenues starts with a $10.4 million decrease in our core revenue this was offset by a $500 000 or 10% increase in non-funeral home matured preneed revenue AKA [ph] SCI’s direct preneed concerning [ph] atneed a $2.9 million or 13% increase in recognized preneed revenue AKA [ph] SCI’s direct product sale that get pre-delivered and a $3.4 million or 10% increase in other revenue which primarily consist a funeral agency commissions earned from preneed insurance sales.
The core revenue decline of $10.4 million is the function of a 2.2% decline in volume and 0.4% decline in the reported average.
To understand what is happening with the average let me restate the revenue decline in other way.
The decline in the Canadian dollar is responsible for $6 million of the decrease.
Trust returns are responsible for another $2 million which leaves only a $2.4 million decline in core revenues absent currency and trust earnings.
So we are achieving inflationary 2% pricing increases offset by 40 basis points of increased cremations my takeaway is that currency will fluctuate trust income will do the same for over long periods we will continue to contribute the growth in the average sale.
The real question is absents in currency and trust noise how we deal with the consumer? We’re achieving inflationary price increases offset by a 40 basis point cremation exchange which we anticipated.
Now look at non-funeral home matured preneed revenue.
The product component of the contract was delivered at the time of sale and reflected as recognized preneed revenue.
Now the trusted component of the service is being delivered upon debt the revenue recognized and cash distributed from the trust.
You will notice that we’ve reported a 10% growth in funeral volumes here for the third quarter this favorable trend begin to surface in early 2015 and we believe it should continue but remember at an average of about $900 per contract.
This is the result of the success we’ve had in growing preneed sales and SCI direct whose contracts are averaging a shorter five to six year life that are now maturing and yes we believe is taking share from our atneed to focus direct cremation competitors.
Now let’s talk about funeral profits.
With a $3.6 million decrease in funeral revenues funeral profits declined nearly $11.5 million.
So what happened remember the core revenue declined $10.4 million of that $6 million was currency which also impacts the Canadian cost structure as our Canadian funeral margins were about 15% in the third quarter we lost $900 000 of profit to currency.
Trust revenues declined $2 million in our 100% margin and our true core operational decline of $2.4 million as a 60% incremental margin as it is driven by volume.
So all in our $10.4 million core revenue decline negatively impacted our profits by $4.3 million.
Next our fixed cost in our funeral segment run about $300 million a quarter.
With a 2% inflation assumption this would have a $6 million negative effect on funeral profits.
And finally we experienced over $6 million of revenue growth from general agency commissions SCI direct product sales and services associated with our SCI direct preneed contracts that are matured.
We’re very proud of the trends in these businesses and we believe they will continue to grow differently from the core business.
The margins here run about 20% and so they contributed an additional $1.2 million in profit for the quarter.
These profits were largely offset by the timing of cost associated with our lead management and marketing programs.
So to summarize we lost $6 million of profit through inflationary fixed cost an additional $4.3 million from core revenue decline including currency trust income and case volume this explains $10.3 million of the profit decrease.
Lower margin revenue gains from SCI direct and general agency commissions were essentially offset by an increased cost from preneed funeral sales lead management and marketing cost.
Speaking of preneed’s production one of our core strategies for growing future market share our comparable funeral sales production grew more than $10 million or 5.4% this is consistent with our annual guidance of low-to-mid single-digit growth.
Now let’s turn to cemetery operations.
Comparable cemetery revenue increased $9.5 million or 3.8% over the prior year quarter.
Primarily due to higher recognized preneed revenue offset by the unfavorable effect of the Canadian dollar as well as lower trust fund income caused by a negative 530 basis point move in our trust fund performance.
Excluding the $3 million currency decline and a $1.4 million decline in trust earnings comparable cemetery revenues grew by $13.9 million or 5.5%.
The primary reason for increased cemetery revenues was preneed sales production growth of $15 million or 9.2%.
Continued success in growing both the sales velocity and the average spent per contract was partially offset by the negative Canadian currency impact.
Through the first nine months of the year total cemetery preneed production was up 14.5% and this will be the fourth year in the last five that we’ve been able to achieve double-digit percentage growth.
Comparable cemetery profits increased $6.1 million in the quarter and the margin percentage grew 150 basis points to 24.4%.
So let’s look at the components of cemetery profits.
Revenue from core operations which are atneed and preneed recognized cemetery production grew nearly $13 million and on this growth we should have seen the 65% margin or an $8.5 million increase in our profit.
Second the $1.4 million decrease in trust income has the 100% margin.
And finally we backlog roughly $4 million of cemetery sales which we recognized and incurred a 20% selling cost which negatively impacted profits by about $800 000.
We expect these sales to convert the revenue over the next few quarters.
The net effect of these three items resulted in a $6.3 million projected increase in cemetery profits which approximates a reported increase of $6.1 million.
.
Now regarding our fourth quarter 2015 outlook we’ve had a great year thus far in 2015.
Cash flow is outpacing our forecast normalized earnings per share has grown $0.08 or 11% which was accomplished despite losing the $0.08 contribution from the Federal Trade Commission or its Stewart divestitures.
Taking the impact of these divestitures out of the 2014 base normalized earnings per share grew $0.16 or 24% year-to-date as Stewart synergies strong preneed cemetery sales and a shrinking equity base had the anticipated effect.
As we think about the remaining three months of 2015 there are couple of areas that we want to highlight.
First we would expect to see funeral volume to decline versus 2014 as last year we began to see the effect of a strong flu season.
Volume is up 1.8% in the fourth quarter of last year.
So in the fourth quarter of this year core volume could be down in the low-to-mid single-digits.
We believe somewhat offset by low single-digit average growth in revenue per case absent currency and mix and further held by growth in SCI direct but at a lower average spend and gross profit.
Also we would expect a continued negative impact from currency as last year the Canadian dollar was in the high 80s and today it sits around 76.
In our cemetery segment while we are comparing to a very tough comparable number we still expect to grow preneed sales in the high single-digit percentage range.
We also report a large amount of revenue from construction in the fourth quarter as it is the seasonal nature of the business however not quite as much as we did in the prior year quarter.
Finally do you recall that during the fourth quarter last year we had approximately $15 million of trust income related to accelerated capital gains that we noted would not repeat.
Therefore we currently believe our fourth quarter normalized earnings per share will range between $0.36 and $0.39.
Excluding the $15 million of accelerated trust income in the prior year we would have reported $0.33 per share last year so guidance is a 9% to 18% growth over that base.
Looking ahead to 2016 I’m very optimistic and believe we are well-positioned to deliver solid results.
Our preliminary earnings per share guidance range is a $1.24 to $1.36.
At the midpoint we followed in the 8% to 12% range of growth we spoke to you in our Investor Day presentation last February.
Variable [ph] covered cash flow guidance which remains very robust and allows us to continue to grow the company and enhance the value of your shares.
Just to give a little more color on the broad assumptions regarding the 2016 outlook we believe the total funeral revenues to grow in the 2% to 3% range absent currency fluctuation.
Comparable core revenues to grow in the 0.5% to 1% range has inflationary pricing with a slight headwind for mix should result in a low-single digit average growth.
We expect this to be slightly offset by 1% to 2% reduction in case volume.
I would expect the tough volume comparisons to be in the first and the second quarters.
Non-comparable revenue from 2015 acquisition should add an additional 80 to 100 basis points of revenue growth in 2016.
Non-funeral home matured preneed revenue recognized preneed revenue and general agency revenue should all grow at a mid-to-high single-digit range.
This should enhance funeral revenue growth by 50 to 80 basis points.
As we discussed before funeral gross margin percentages should be relatively stable.
So revenue increases should generate additional margin dollars in cash flow.
We believe the preneed funeral sales should continue to grow in the mid-single digits.
As it relates to cemetery we anticipate the reported revenues will continue to increase in the mid-single digit percentage range led by preneed sales production growth in the mid-to-high single-digit percentage range.
Modest growth in atneed cemetery revenues and slightly decreasing trust income as we recorded and withdrew approximately $10 million of one-time capital gains in 2015 that do not anticipate to recur.
Therefore our segment margin percentages which normally grow in the 50 to 100 basis points range with this kind of revenue growth should actually be just slightly higher as the missing trust income carries 100% margins.
Still we expect healthy increases in cash/dollar margins for 2016.
And finally we expect corporate SG&amp;A to be relatively flat for the year in the lower $30 million range on a quarterly basis.
So to wrap it up I just want to say thank you to our entire team for their hard work and helping to produce great results thus far and we look forward to a strong finish in the fourth quarter of 2015.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Eric.
Good morning everybody.
I would like to start this morning by summarizing some key financial points that I think are important for everybody to understand before I get too much into the details of the quarter.
So cash flow continues to be very strong with the third quarter well ahead of our expectations and slightly higher than prior year.
Cash flow was primarily bolstered by the favorable trends increased cemetery working capital that I will touch upon in a few minutes when I get into the details.
We also have a new expectation of lower normalized cash tax payments for the full-year of 2015 and as a result of this coupled with the strong preneed cemetery working capital that I just mentioned we are once again raising our full-year 2015 guidance for adjusted operating cash flow to a range of $500 million to $525 million.
This cash flow stream coupled with our favorable liquidity profile has enabled us to execute a robust capital deployment program during the quarter which included returning an impressive $177 million to our shareholders to both dividends and share repurchases.
Finally our outlook for 2016 cash flow is in the range of $475 million to $525 million which continues to demonstrate the consistency and predictability of our cash flow stream at SCI.
So with that let’s begin with the third quarter in terms of cash flow and as you saw on our press release as the adjusted operating cash flow grew $1.7 million in the third-quarter to $125 million as lower payroll funding and better working capital basically offset the expected increase we had in normalized cash taxes.
So a little bit more color on this cash flow in the third-quarter similar to what we disclosed last quarter cash flow from operations increased despite contributions from FTC mandated Stewart divested properties in 2014 that we do not benefit from in 2015.
This estimated impact in the quarter was $3 million to $4 million.
As we also highlighted for you the last quarter due to the way the July 4 holiday fell this year we benefited from lower payroll funding in this third quarter by about $19 million.
Also on a positive note we’ve been seeing an upward trend in recent quarters of increasing cash proceeds from preneed cemetery installment card collections as a result of preneed cemetery sales production growing in the high single to low double digit percentage range as you have seen over the past several quarters.
Well revenue recognition primarily occurred at the time of sale many of these cemetery property sales are paid on installments over 5 year period.
Inline with our expectations normalized cash taxes during the third quarter increased $25 million over the prior year and maintenance in cemetery development CapEx for the quarter came in at approximately $37 million.
So our calculation of free cash flow for the third quarter therefore is $88 million this is flat to the prior year but again well above our internal expectations as the greater benefit in working capital offset the increase in normalized cash tax.
So overall a solid quarter for us in terms of our cash flow from our point of view.
Now shift in the look forward into the fourth quarter of 2015 as well as the full year of 2015 first in the first 9 months of the year adjusted cash flow from operation has increased $39 million or 10% to $425 million.
So based on these strong year-to-date results so far better working capitals and previously expected related to preneed cemetery installment cash receipts in a revised lower estimate for normalized cash taxes.
We are raising our guidance range for 2015 annual adjusted cash flow by $25 million which equates to a new range of $500 million to $525 million for the full year of 2015.
This new guidance for the full year implies the cash flow range in the fourth quarter of $75 million to $100 million compared to the prior year amount of $123 million.
But keep in mind that we have 2 significant headwinds in the fourth quarter.
First remember that last year we have benefited from $15 million of trust fund distributions when we received one time capital gains distributions from integrating Stewart Trust bonds.
Second we will also have a higher normalized cash tax payments with an expected $30 million in the fourth quarter of this year versus no normalized cash tax payments in the fourth quarter of last year.
Despite this fourth quarter increase in normalized cash taxes over the prior year we now believe that we will end 2015 with about $100 million in total normalized cash taxes versus our previous expectation of a $125 million.
Our recurring CapEx guidance expectation for the full year of 2015 is approximately $140 million which set the high-end of the range that we previously provided.
This results in a higher expected range of free cash flow of $360 million to $385 million for the full year of 2015.
Now let’s shift to the third quarter going back and let’s talk about our free cash flow deployment.
To begin with we finish the quarter with healthy liquidity a little less than $385 million consisting of a $142 million of cash on hand and $242 million of availability on our long-term credit facility.
This liquidity positions us well to strategically execute our capital deployment plans.
So during the quarter we spent approximately $8 million on two new acquisitions after including almost $4 million of 10.31 exchange funds which are not reflected in our statement of cash flows for both transactions have projected after-tax IRRs in the mid-to-high teen percentages.
Now for what we gave back to our shareholders we’ve returned an impressive $177 million of value to our shareholders during the quarter which by the way represents the most we have returned in a single quarter since 2007.
In addition to $24 million in dividend payments we also repurchased about $153 million or 5.1 million shares during the quarter.
Subsequent to the end of the quarter we have repurchased just over 620 000 additional shares for a total investment of approximately $17.5 million.
Therefore when you look at what we have done so far in 2015 through today we have repurchased about 11.6 million shares for a total investment of over $321 million.
These repurchases are more than double what we’ve said to be possible at the beginning of the year and we are pleased that we have been able to be opportunistic at these share price levels.
Currently we have just over a 196 million shares outstanding and about $300 million of remaining share repurchase authorization.
Now let’s shift to our outlook for 2016.
And in 2016 we expect our adjusted operating cash flows to be in the range of $475 million to $525 million.
Higher cash flow growth from our underlying funeral and cemetery operations will be more than offset by higher anticipated normalized cash tax payments.
As we transitioned to become a full cash tax payer in 2016 our preliminary estimate for normalized cash taxes in 2016 is approximately $116 million or a $16 million increase compared to 2015 normalized cash tax payment of approximately $100 million that I just mentioned.
Absent this growth though and normalized cash taxes our adjusting operating cash flows are expected to grow a healthy 9% in 2016 when utilizing the mid-point of our occurring guidance range.
And lastly capital spending in 2016 for maintenance in cemetery development CapEx is expected to range from $140 million to $150 million slightly higher than our expected spend in 2015 as we continue to reinvest in our core businesses.
So in conclusion we continue to have a healthy balance sheet in capital structure and of course tremendous liquidity.
All of which add to our flexibility to pursue opportunities that will drive value for our shareholders and our company.
We are expecting continued strong cash flow for the remainder of this year and into 2016.
We both as shareholders and as management consider this free cash flow [indiscernible] to be built steady and predictable and I’m not sure there are any 2 better attributes a company can have when describing its cash flow strength.
And we will deploy this cash flow to continue to deliver significant value for our shareholders in 2016.
So operator that concludes our prepared remarks and now I would like to shift it back to you for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Chris Rigg from Susquehanna Financial.
Chris please go ahead.
Hi this is Frank Lee on for Chris thanks for taking my question.
Share repurchases is well above the target for the year and acquisition seems to be inline.
Could you provide some more color on how we should think about capital deployment in the fourth quarter and in 2016 specifically the mix of repurchases and acquisition? Frank this is Tom thank you for the question and I think specifically as it relates to 2014 I know that we have a transaction that we believe will close in the fourth quarter and so I also think we are going to have a healthy amount of money that we are going deploy towards share repurchase.
So think of the acquisitions spend being kind of in the mid to – I guess kind of high single-digit million dollars and then spending money on share repurchase and otherwise.
As you think about 16 my thoughts are again this changes from time to time I’d see the pipelines are not as robust as it once was and so as I think about the mix at this point in time 16 maybe little heavier on the share repurchases versus opportunities to deploy cash for acquisition.
Having said that I think we are building more funeral homes that are again on a plan for 2016 so we will continue to grow future revenues through growing the businesses that we operate.
Okay thanks.
And then if I can not sure if I missed this but had you quantified what you are expecting as far as trust fund and currency impact in the fourth quarter and then in 2016 EPS guidance? Yes I think when you think about the fourth quarter because we lost close to a penny of currency in the fourth quarter and so if you assume the Canadian rates stayed the same they began to slightly dip in the fourth quarter last year.
So it probably won’t be quite a penny but it will be somewhere between a half penny and a penny and we are really forecasting the Canadian currency for next year to be stay where it is if you will and again that can change up and down.
From a trust income perspective clearly we reset the bar in the third quarter by having the bad third quarter but the markets of 9% in October so we’ve got a little bit back and your guess is as good as mine on what is going to happen in 2016 but we generally project for returns in the year to be kind of in the low-to-mid single digits as far as market returns and again those adjusted based upon the realities of what the fluctuates of the market do so that’s the way we think about it and that’s the way we modeled it when you think about 16.
Okay that’s helpful thanks a lot.
Okay.
And our next question comes from the A.J.
Rice from UBS Financial Services.
please go ahead.
Thanks hi everybody just maybe a follow-up on a couple of those earlier points on the buybacks for 2016 is there.
I’m assuming you factored in or in the EPS guidance for 2016 I am assuming you factored in the buybacks from 2015 if you assumed any level of buyback in your guidance for next year? A.J I think you know again we’ve got a range so we’ve got kind of a low and a high thought on what’s going to happen on buybacks.
So I think the way to think about it is we’ve got a we have some buyback activity in there but I would say not a historical trend that you have seen us do.
So I do think there is some upside potential if and when we execute the buyback strategy but again remember it will have a half year’s effect if you will on 2016 and probably really flat to see for more earnings per share and cash flow per share growth in 2017 so not a lot in there but some.
Okay.
And then just on the working capital benefit you are seeing from the better payout to the installment sales on the cemetery side.
Is that sort of the results of an initiative is that the result of different consumer behavior and if you realize the full benefit of that is where you are at now sustainable or is there potential for more room give us a little more flavor on that? A.J this is Eric.
I mean what you‘ve seen is I try to describe in my notes it’s really good healthy increase in our cemetery sales production especially what we call heritage or cemetery property.
And as you know with accounting is for recognizing that revenue but a lot of that was done at the time under installment contracts.
And what you are really seeing is an increase of cash flows coming from those installment contracts which are higher because of that sales production.
So it’s really a function of you know what do we think of the levels of sales production I will dictate the installment contracts and the cash receipts coming in later.
You have seen some really healthy increases in cemetery sales production in the first half of the year they were up mid double digit high teen percentages and no way of we project in that type of increase to continue.
So I think it will kind of moderate but it was very nice in terms of a tailwind for us for cash flow for this quarter and probably into the fourth quarter as well.
A.J this is Tom I just add to piggyback to what Eric saying when you think about the sales production growth we get some of it for lack of a better way [indiscernible] to the external world from internal sale.
If you think about an internal sale that customer that used to come in the cemetery they generally paid more upfront cash they generally weren’t extending as much payment term.
And as we have been able to grow our cemetery through the outside sales force that outside sales forces bring a customer that may or may not have come in before and they tend to finance over a period of time so I think that mix of people that are utilizing that financing tool continue to increase and so Eric’s point and I think those receivables are out there and we’ll continue to grow that aspect of our business.
Okay and may be last I know you said in the prior remarks that you mentioned on that first question the [Indiscernible] activity may be sound little bit of an upswing as well as – it’s been a long time so I think I’ve heard you are buying cemetery land could you just give us flavor for – is that a one off or is that something that we are likely to see more out? Yeah I think on the cemetery its generally one off because we just don’t have a lot of those situations I think what you will see going forward and I think during the pipeline as we have got approvals to build funeral homes sometimes on the accommodation facilities in cemetery sometimes on process of real estate and we believe demographically are the right place to be.
So we get quite a few of those on the drawing board and their plan and prior to the 209 to 210 and I’m aware of that again increased activity relative to the past.
So I think you can see more of that but more related to the funeral side of business versus cemetery.
Okay alright.
Thanks A.J.
And our next question comes from John Ransom from Raymond James.
John please go ahead.
Hi good morning and I’m sorry I was pinging back and forth on a couple of calls so I apologies if I miss those but did you say last year was obviously a big flu season if flu is a more normal season this year do you have just a ballpark estimate of what that might [indiscernible] funeral volumes? Hi John this is Tom and.
Good morning.
Yeah I think again it’s hard John to project that I would just tell you this that in my mind if you model 1% to 2% down for the year the way I would expect it to roll in is that you could see a call it a 3% or 4% decline in the first quarter may be into the first half of the year which again you would make back a lot of that with flat to slightly up in the back half.
Again I think [indiscernible] tells us that’s probably a trend line the truth is we don’t know.
Okay.
I think the way we are looking at it is you could have a pretty tough comp particularly in the first quarter less so in the second and then I will see the third what you’d expect to be a little more favorable comp – you saw here.
Okay great.
And do you think we have got into a new plateau with respect to your preneed business and the lack of cash burn that we saw so far is that the new role? I think again – I think we really some good traction and some of the stuff we have done in the preneed role in terms of good production getting down payments and then seeing a tailwind that will last as I said 3 to 5 years for that but I think it was a little bit more than what we expected John is what I said and so.
Yeah.
I’m going to wait a quarter or so to fully alpine if this is the new normal what I got is we are starting to see some traction but probably not as good as we saw this quarter.
Is your mix of trust versus third party insurance still kind of consistent with what it has been? Yes.
Okay thanks a lot.
That’s all I had.
Thanks.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Duncan Brown from Wells Fargo.
Duncan please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
When you think about 2016 guidance are there any additional may be the Stewart opportunities or is that most of that or all that been realized? Hey Duncan this is Tom.
I think what we’ve got in place almost again we are always trying to find new ways that [indiscernible] cost structure and our efficiency but I would say from a Stewart synergy perspective they are all in place and there should not be a real incremental piece in 2016.
Having said that on the revenue side as you think about cemetery development we constantly looking at cemetery plan and develop a new levels of inventory new tiers of inventory we have not got around to every Stewart cemetery and develop the right levels of inventory the right the tiers of inventory.
So think we believe there is opportunity to create value and create synergies for the Stewart cemetery that probably gets into $16 million and even into $17 million but again these numbers are probably in the low single digit million dollar opportunities as the years go on.
So we are excited there is much more do and we are constantly looking at ways to enhance value for [indiscernible] and drive profitability for our shareholders.
Okay that’s fair I appreciate that color then also on the 16 guidance would love to get any thoughts that you have on wage inflation pressure that you are seeing on that and just any you’ve seen any changes on that front or expect anything? Nothing outside the normal I think again we are people oriented business and it’s important for us to for our employees to be engaged in what we are doing and doing the right thing but I would say we are not seeing anything that trend wise we had seen in the last 2 or 3 years.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thanks Duncan.
Okay and we have no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the call back over the SCI management team.
I want to thank everybody for being on the call today.
And we look forward to reporting back to you guys in February for our fourth quarter and final 2015 numbers.
Thanks again for being on the call.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating you may now disconnect.