Good morning.
My name is Joanne and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Spectra Energy earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Arensdorf you may begin your conference.
Thanks Joanne  and good morning everyone.
And welcome to Spectra Energy's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Review.
We're very pleased that you've been able to join us today.
Leading our discussion today will be Greg Ebel our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Pat Reddy our Chief Financial Officer.
Both Greg and Pat will discuss our quarterly results and provide more color around our strategic plans to enhance the value Spectra Energy delivers to its shareholders.
We'll then open the lines for your questions.
Before we begin let me take a moment to remind you that some of the things we will discuss today concern future company performance and include forward-looking statements within the meanings of the securities laws.
Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements.
So you should refer to the additional information contained in Spectra Energy's Form 10-K and in our other SEC filings concerning factors that could cause these results to be different from those contemplated in today's discussion.
In addition today's discussion includes certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC Reg G.
A reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available on our Investor Relations website at spectraenergy.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks John and good morning everybody.
As you've seen from our earnings release Spectra Energy delivered solid ongoing first quarter results of $350 million compared to $342 million in the first quarter of 2010.
I'm pleased with our first quarter performance which exceeded our expectations and has given us an excellent running start to the year.
In fact after a levelizing for the unusually low tax rate in Q1 2010 our EPS was up about 10% quarter-over-quarter.
Key drivers for those of solid results included the following: continued strong performance from our fee-based businesses $45 million in incremental EBIT from expansion projects placed into service last year projects like TEMAX and our Fort Nelson Expansion in British Columbia; a strengthening Canadian dollar which benefited our Canadian businesses; colder-than-normal weather for the first quarter compared with warmer-than-normal weather in the first quarter of 2010 benefited our Distribution segment.
The harsh weather also led to record deliveries on our Northeast U.S.
pipelines.
Our system ran safely and reliably and met the customers' needs during critical periods.
And while cold weather is not an earnings driver for the quarter for our U.S.
pipelines the high utilization of our system including about 1.5 billion Northeast capacity additions since 2007 really bodes well in terms of both ongoing business and future pipeline expansion opportunities.
And while cold weather is generally a positive for our business it can create some challenges at our Field Services businesses DCP Midstream.
This winter's unusually cold periods led to producer well freeze-offs in DCP Midstream's footprint which in turn reduced production volumes at its plants.
Although we didn't see a decline in volumes compared to the first quarter of 2010 the volume growth that we've been seeing over the most recent quarters was delayed with the well freeze-offs.
Field Services did however benefit from favorable natural gas liquids prices and the current fundamental supporting NGL prices looked quite strong through 2011 and beyond.
So those were the key drivers for the quarter or the strong tailwinds enabling our running start for the year.
Our capital expansion commitment is also an important part of that.
And we're building the base momentum from which we'll continue to grow earnings.
Taking a quick look at some of the projects filling that growth beginning with those recently placed into service.
Last month the Bissette Pipeline in Northeast British Columbia was placed into service.
This project connects production in the Montney region to the South Peace Pipeline our Dawson Plant and ultimately to our McMahon Plant.
The Gulfstream Phase V project which was also placed into service in April underbudget and ahead of schedule.
Phase V is the latest expansion of the Gulfstream pipeline and underscores the heightened demand for natural gas for electricity generation.
As we move to the middle of the decade further expansion on the Gulfstream pipeline presents an attractive competitive alternative to meeting Florida's mandate to replace oil and coal-fired generation with clean-burning natural gas.
Gas-fired power generation is certainly fueling growth throughout both our Northeast Tennessee or our NET project and the Hot Springs Lateral project.
Construction is underway at both of these facilities with expected in-service dates during the second half of this year.
Clearly very good progress in all our 2011 projects and looking ahead we continue to lay the groundwork for growth well beyond 2011.
Our New Jersey-New York project is on track with our expectations.
And our next big milestone will be our FERC certificate which we expect to receive by the end of this year.
We'll also complete our Fort Nelson North Expansion project in 2012 a significant undertaking that when complete and coupled with our existing Fort Nelson Plant will have capacity of 1.2 bcf a day.
The Dawson project in the Montney basin continues to advance towards its plan completion in the fourth quarter of 2011 for Phase 1 and in early 2013 for the second phase.
DCP Midstream has its own slate of growth projects to the tune of $700 million to $800 million a year and they continue to leverage and expand their footprint by adding expanded processing capacity in liquids-rich basins such as the Denver-Julesburg the Permian and the Eagle Ford.
They're also pursuing the other potential Midstream infrastructure facilities such as the Sandhills pipelines connecting the Permian Basin and Eagle Ford to Mont Belvieu.
You'll recall that DCP relying on both its solid balance sheet and the master limited partnership DCP Midstream Partners funds its own growth while maintaining strong dividend payments to parent companies Spectra Energy and Conoco.
Finally we're encouraged by the growing support for the important role of natural gas and in how we can play meeting the connective goals of energy independence economic growth and environmental integrity.
As mentioned we expect to see a new wave of opportunities across our system as power generators look seriously at converting older coal- and oil-fired plants to clean-burning efficient natural gas and to support greater utilization of existing gas-fired plants.
Spectra Energy is ideally suited to meet that anticipated demand.
We know the competition will be strong but we intend to vigorously pursue these opportunities and win our fair share extending our earnings growth beyond the middle of the decade.
We're also pursuing ample opportunities beyond natural gas power generation growth and conversions.
In the Marcellus region we're moving ahead with projects like the Algonquin Incremental Market or AIM Project as we call it which would move emerging supplies of natural gas to the premium markets in the Northeast and New England.
The Marcellus Ethane Pipeline System project or MEPS also offers Spectra Energy and our partner El Paso the unique opportunity to transport some 60 000 barrels per day of ethane from fractionation plants in the ethane-rich Marcellus region to pipelines and storage facilities here in the Gulf Coast.
Recent announcements by Dow and others concerning expansion of ethane-based facilities in the Gulf Coast region point to the increased need for ethane.
We believe MEPS to be the logical choice to provide the needed transportation to serve this growing demand.
The Horn River and the Montney shale plays hold tremendous promise for future growth and development as well.
We're ideally positioned in the midst of that growth and ready and able to expand our assets as required.
It looks increasingly likely that there'll be LNG exports from Western Canada and there will certainly be infrastructure need for those projects.
We're well situated to connect the growing Horn River and Montney supplies to any LNG export facility developed on the West Coast to British Columbia.
And finally our MLP Spectra Energy Partners continues to pursue organic growth and acquisition opportunities that help grow the entire Spectra Energy enterprise through its low-cost tax-efficient financing structure.
So we're set up to continue realizing value-enhancing projects and that'll take us to the middle of the decade and beyond.
I'm being very confident of our ability to successfully execute on at least $5 billion in growth projects between now and 2015 and deliver the corresponding earnings growth.
With that I'm going to turn things over to Pat who will take you through the quarter numbers in more detail Well thank you Greg and good morning everyone.
As announced earlier today we reported first quarter 2011 earnings of $357 million or $0.55 per share compared with $358 million or $0.55 per share in the first quarter of 2010.
After removing the effect of discontinued operations and special items ongoing earnings for the quarter were $350 million or $0.54 per share compared with $342 million or $0.53 per share last year.
For comparison purposes I'll remind you that the first quarter of 2010 results included a $0.04 benefit from a favorable tax settlement.
We know that many of you focus on EBITDA so the next slide provides that information by business segment.
Ongoing EBITDA for the quarter was $904 million compared with $863 million in the first quarter of 2010 an almost 5% increase year-over-year.
That increase reflects the strong cash generation capacity of our business mix.
Let's now take a look at our performance by business segment beginning with U.S.
Transmission.
U.S.
Transmission reported first quarter 2011 EBIT of $279 million compared with $247 million in the first quarter of 2010.
The segment benefited from expansion projects placed in service late in 2010 including TEMAX/TIME III and Algonquin East to West.
Now let's move on to Distribution.
Distribution reported first quarter 2011 EBIT of $167 million compared with $146 million in the first quarter of 2010.
This improvement is mainly due to higher customer usage because of colder weather a stronger Canadian dollar growth in the number of residential customers being served and an increase in industrial usage due to favorable natural gas prices.
Let me turn now to Western Canada Transmission and Processing.
That segment reported first quarter 2011 EBIT of $141 million compared with $119 million in the first quarter of 2010.
The business benefited from improved results in our base gathering and processing activities primarily driven by higher contracted volumes from expansions in the Horn River area of British Columbia and from the effect of a stronger Canadian dollar.
While not material to our overall financial results and as anticipated in our 2011 plan we are seeing declines in production from conventional basins like the Grizzly Valley.
However increasing volumes associated with our Horn River and Montney expansions more than offset these declines.
Let's turn now to Field Services.
Excluding the effects of the mark-to-market adjustment at DPM Field Services reported first quarter ongoing EBIT of $86 million compared with $97 million in the first quarter of 2010.
The decrease in earnings was mainly driven by lower margins due to severe cold weather across higher-margin regions and higher budgeted operating costs.
The cold temperatures resulted in well freeze-offs and production declines in some of DCP's higher-margin areas.
The weather also adversely impacted margin realization by decreasing plant efficiencies and lowering NGL recoveries.
The second key driver for Field Services' quarter was higher operating and maintenance costs relative to the first quarter of 2010 but in line with our 2011 expectations.
These cost increases largely reflect growth in the business and system reliability upgrades.
These earnings decreases were partially offset by lower interest expense and higher commodity prices with NGL include price movements more than offsetting the year-over-year reduction in gas prices.
During first quarter 2011 NGL prices averaged $1.13 per gallon just $0.04 higher than in the prior year quarter.
NYMEX natural gas averaged about $4.11 per MMBtu more than $1 lower than in the same period in 2010.
And crude oil averaged approximately $94 per barrel compared with $79 per barrel last year.
DCP Midstream paid distributions of $80 million to Spectra Energy in the 2011 quarter.
And consistent with our 2011 plan we anticipate receiving distributions of at least $350 million for the full year.
Now let me turn to some additional items for the quarter.
Our other category reported net costs of $24 million the first quarter 2011 compared with net costs of $14 million in last year's quarter.
We continue to expect our other expenses to come in at about $80 million for the year in line with our 2011 business plan.
Interest expense was $155 million compared with $159 million in the first quarter of 2010.
The first quarter's effective tax rate was 27% compared with 21% last year for the reasons that Greg explained.
You will recall that the first quarter 2010 tax rate reflected the benefit of a $24 million tax settlement.
Excluding that tax settlement the first quarter 2010 effective tax rate was 26%.
The favorable Canadian currency exchange rate increased first quarter 2011 after-tax earnings by about $9 million.
At the end of the first quarter our debt to total capitalization ratio stood at about 55%.
We expect to fund our CapEx program through a combination of internally generated funds and debt while staying within our targeted 55% to 60% range for leverage.
At the quarter's close we had total capacity under our credit facilities of $2.7 billion and available liquidity of $1.8 billion.
And effective today we renewed and upsized the Westcoast Energy credit facility taking it from CAD $200 million to CAD $300 million and extending the term to May 2015.
So that's an overview of our first quarter results.
We feel very good about where we are today and where we're headed in the balance of the year.
Our solid financial position allows us to execute our 2011 financial and business plans and keeps us on track to deliver the results that our investors expect of us.
We set our 2011 EPS target at $1.65 which includes $0.20 from expansion projects.
And while we still have three quarters left to go we feel that goal is well within reach.
Here's what gives us confidence.
We have a diversified portfolio of businesses assets and market positions which we believe to be without equal in our sector.
We have a proven track record for action and execution.
We're deploying the levels of capital that we committed to bringing projects into service on-time and on-budget and generating returns at or above anticipated levels.
And we have the financial wherewithal to act upon opportunities as they arise and to operate and maintain our assets to the highest standards.
We're seeing real and sustainable earnings growth from our capital investments and expect to realize long-term returns on capital employed in the 10% to 12% range.
As we grow earnings we would expect to grow our dividend consistent with our targeted 65% payout ratio.
Finally we have a solid foundation from which we're successfully realizing consistent growth and value creation.
When considering Spectra Energy as a whole investors can expect to receive an attractive dividend yield and consistent EPS growth generating an impressive total shareholder return.
We think that's a compelling value proposition and we will continue to deliver value and growth to our investors this year and well into the future.
So with that we'll open the lines and we'll entertain your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from the line of Jonathan Lefebvre.
[Wells Fargo Securities] LLC</strong> Just had a question on DCP and the weather impact there.
Can you quantify what that was? And then in terms of the volume impact should we expect that we'll see that come back later in the year? Well the weather was kind of in the $10 million range maybe a little bit more.
And then volumes were down from what we'd expect to probably about 5%.
I would expect some of that to ramp up back up projects like Mewborne and Eagle Ford they get impacted by that and gas gets backed up in the field.
But as those plants come on obviously the freeze-ups are done I'd expect you'd see acceleration of results as we go through the year.
And needless to say the commodity prices are very attractive from what our assumptions where Jonathan.
And gas prices were below what we thought in the first quarter and now they're above what we thought.
So pretty good dynamics from a fundamentals perspective from a volumes perspective and so I'd expect you'd see that corresponding improvement.
LLC</strong> I appreciate that.
And then just was wondering if we could get maybe an update on the Sandhills project when we might see a binding open season filed and kind of where are in the process.
Well pretty competitive.
I'd still expect in next month you'll hear something for us on that Jonathan.
And I'll leave it at this point in time.
But we like our position.
We like kind of what we're hearing from producers and give us 30 days or so and hopefully we'll be giving you something that will be very positive.
LLC</strong> And then finally on the Kitimat LNG project I know you guys are seeing opportunities to service that with infrastructure growth just wondering if maybe you have any idea of maybe potential size of what might be needed and maybe if you can put some dollar amounts around that would be helpful.
Pretty early days so that project would be probably still mid-decade.
And it may not be just one project I think there could be some attractive opportunities from more than just one export facility there.
But a pipeline going from the old Westcoast systems our SPC [ph] system is probably in the kind of $2 billion to $3 billion range.
Maybe those are pretty rough numbers but you're going through a rough terrain there obviously.
But that's obviously a pretty attractive opportunity to put a lot of capital to work for a long period of time.
LLC</strong> Great.
And any idea of what type of size you might need in terms of volumes? Well I think that's really kind of in the producers' hands right now.
I think you've got everything from proposals out there from kind of 1  billion to 2 billion [ph] in terms of facilities.
I think you get below 750 million [ph] kind of thing or at least something that's not expandable for well over 1 billion [ph] then it becomes kind of economic.
So I think you're going to be 750 million and up and obviously the bigger it is the more economic it becomes.
And Jonathan the announcement was that the NEB would begin hearings on the export permit in June with an anticipated decision by the end of the year so that may help give some clarity to the starting point at least.
Your next question is from the line of Ted Durbin.
[Goldman Sachs] You talked a little bit about the MOU [memorandum of understanding] the range fine with Dow.
I'm just wondering when we might get a little bit more clarity on gaining more producers to sign up what kind of costs you'd see on the MEPS project the returns you'd look for and are you looking for more of the producers or more of the consumers to be paying the tariff? Originally I would've said more the producers but I think the Dow -- and obviously we're in discussions with those folks as well.
I think you're seeing a combination of both.
Both producers obviously want to push the product but the consumers want to make sure that they've got a couple of things.
One close access to their plants but two expandability.
And we think that really creates an advantage for the MEPS project.
I think that's still going to be later this year before we get that all clarified I think producers and consumers are really weighing all their options.
It's very competitive.
I just really like our position.
Obviously I like the partnership between El Paso and ourselves.
And I think that expandability piece is going to be really valuable.
But I think I don't see anything in the next 20 days kind of thing.
But let's see as the year goes on we'll get folks signed up I would hope.
And it's still a 2014 project Ted so it would not be unusual for us to be in a position where you're a couple of years before you actually get the project nailed.
Okay.
And any sense of what the cost might be for the total project? Yes.
Something in the $800 million to $1 billion range.
And that's up to like 60 000 barrels a day.
At 60 000 barrels a day.
Okay great.
And that's a 100% Ted right? Yes you'd be 50-50.
And Ted we've talked about ROCEs on all of our projects in the 10% to 12% range.
And some will be lower and some will be higher.
And as Greg said this will be very competitive.
But that's the nice thing about having a portfolio where we're going to invest more than $5 billion over the next 5 years.
That's helpful.
Maybe just switching over to the Horn River and the Montney what are you seeing in terms of competition? I mean you have some E&amp;Ps announce they might do some of their own Midstream work.
I'm just wondering how the competitive landscape is out there.
Well from a size we're clearly the largest single player there.
We've been there for a very long time.
These are not -- some of these plants have very high H2S content.
These aren't easy plants to run and it's our expertise.
So we feel really good about the competitive position there.
There's a number of smaller Canadian players there that we don't take for granted that's for sure.
But as producers look at where is the money best spent is it spent at the wellhead or the drill bit or is it spent better on processing.
I think they'll turn to folks like Spectra who have shown they can deliver on their commitments to build those plants out.
So as people decide if they want to build out additional processing themselves people i.e.
producers or they want to see processes I think we're going to be in a really good position to do it.
And as Pat pointed out with the new credit facilities in place a really great access we have to capital markets in Canada very attractive tax rates in Canada and a strong dollar I think we're going to like and I think investors are going to like the opportunities we have up there.
Okay.
And then if I could just -- coming back to DCP you said $700 million $800 million of CapEx this year.
Which products are actually in that budget? What could that number be if you got some other project wins this year and even going forward into '12 and '13? Yes well I think that $700 million $800 million average over the next few years is a good number.
Even the projects that we picked up this year Ted like if you pick up Sandhills and stuff that's not going to have a huge impact this year.
And so the kind of stuff that I'm talking about is some of Eagle Ford activity that's in there the Mewborne plant which is up in Weld County we have some buildouts in that regard.
So some smaller plants this year the bigger projects would be in places like in the Permian.
The bigger projects will come in over the next couple of years.
But I think that $700 million $800 million is a good number.
And remember the nice thing about that is we can continue the dividends coming up to the parents because we've got DPM there to fund the equity side if you will.
And at these commodity prices more than enough cash flow to fund the remainder of the DCP Midstream.
Next question is from the line of Carl Kirst.
[BMO Capital Markets] Just a couple of cleanups on my end.
Do you guys have the effect of what the Canadian EBIT is at Union at the utility just from kind of a weather normalized? Well and you're just looking for the weather impact? Yes exactly.
Okay.
We had the impact of customer usage -- I think weather was only a couple of million dollars maybe $4 million or $5 million.
And actually Carl weather was about $9 million which -- if that's customer usage primarily due to colder weather the Canadian dollar strengthening added about $9 million.
But we also saw growth in a number residential customers that added about $2 million and then an increase in industrial usage because of favorable gas price economics that was another $2 million.
Okay now very helpful just to dead-reckon everything.
The second question I had was just on the pipeline EBIT.
Very nice results here.
And I guess to a certain extent of looking where we were as we entered the year targeting roughly right around $1 billion for pipeline EBIT as a whole for 2011.
Did you see anything within the first quarter that was better than expectation? Are we ahead of the budget right now? Or is this something where we should kind of continue to really focus on that $1 billion and we have really more just sort of quarterly progression noise? Well I think it's a little too early to kind of start to see it exactly.
We have three quarters to go.
As you know it's pretty even.
There was nothing spectacular.
I mean the project's so sweet tell you they'll do they come in on-time and on-budget and they produce [indiscernible] earnings call it $30 million or so.
And maybe we're a little bit ahead of budget but let's see how the rest of the three quarters go.
I wouldn't change that number at this point in time Carl.
No that's fair.
Just trying to get a sense of flavors so that's very helpful.
And then last question Greg if I could just to make sure I understand what the growth opportunities set is.
In particular on the LNG side as we look over it at Kitimat is what you're referring to when you say potentially $2 billion to $3 billion and recognizing how early you are in this process is that a new Westcoast line to Kitimat? Or is that somehow using PNG's [Pacific Northern Gas] rights-of-way -- or I mean is this in competition with PNG? Or is this somehow connecting into PNG? No this is a separate pipeline.
Whether you use the PNG right-of-way or not that's something still to be discussed.
They're small operators.
What I'm just saying is that kind of building out from call it station 2 or somewhere in that range over to Kitimat.
That's what I'm talking about.
So the right-of-way issue is important but that's an extremely small lateral or pipeline that PNG exists out there.
So I would look at it as a new pipeline and that's just the pipeline cost that I'm giving you from that perspective Carl.
Does that help? Awesome.
That was perfect.
:p id="-1" name="Operator" /&gt; Next question is from the line of Matthew Akman.
[Macquarie Research] A few questions.
On Western Canada obviously Empress had very strong volume throughput in the quarter and Horn River was better.
As you grow volumes organically there is there any kind of rough breakdown of the improvement from each component? Were they mostly Empress or mostly Horn River? Or how do you look at it? No mainly the expansion at Horn River I mean Empress was no different year-over-year actually Matt.
So the pickup from G&amp;P business was about $20 million then you picked up $6 million or $7 million from the currency.
Okay.
So that's just ongoing sustainable fee-based-type volume? Absolutely.
Okay that's great.
Pat I guess this question's for you.
You booked $139 million of income tax are expensed that much in the quarter.
But I know this year there's the bonus depreciation and your cash tax will be lower.
Did you pay much in way of cash tax in the quarter? No in fact we're not looking to pay cash taxes for the entire year because of bonus depreciation.
And as we have sharpened our pencil our estimate now instead of $250 million is closer to $350 million with $300 million of that attributable to 2011 operations and $50 million a look-back at 2010.
So we're well positioned to not be in a cash tax paying position this year.
But of course as you know it's really just an interest-free loan from the government a switch between current and deferred.
If you look at the cash flow operating cash flow is up call it $0.25 billion.
$100 million of that is from cash taxes not being paid so that's positive.
Okay.
So operating cash flow in the quarter was up $250 million? That's correct.
And my last question maybe this is for you Greg to just maybe pontificate a little bit on the whole MLP tax situation.
I don't know if you've been following but I guess there's a little of noise that there might be consideration of changing that.
And just maybe your thoughts on whether you think that might happen.
And if it would how it will affect Spectra? And that's my last question.
Okay.
Well we've seen this in Canada come and go.
I think it's important to have a balanced approach here.
Obviously we think we've got structures that can take advantage of either scenario.
I have no idea what's going to happen from a taxation perspective in Washington.
I don't know if anybody does.
I guess again for us having a large C corp structure both in Canada and in the United States having MLPs in our key business units that seems to be a wise idea as well.
And whatever the scenario is I think Spectra's going well-positioned.
So we'll have to see what happens.
As long as they exist we're going to use them to finance the growth.
And I think it's a long ways down the road to think that they're going to go away anytime certain.
But that would -- that is definitely pontificating because we'll have to see what happens from that perspective.
The next question is from the line of Craig Shere.
[Tuohy Brothers Investment] Inc.</strong> Greg in the past you've been pretty clear.
You've cited collateral requirements and counterparty risks and mark-to-market confusion as all obstacles to Spectra every pursuing hedging options for the commodity exposure from DCP.
And I wonder though if you would support DCP itself signing more hedgeable or fixed-price long-term petrochem ethane supply agreements if that became available.
And if that happened then you had more long-term consistency of distributions from the JV.
Could that impact kind of a step change in your own dividend? Yes well the dividend is more than paid for from the fee-based businesses as you know.
So we don't look for the DCP at all to help us pay the dividend to Spectra Energy common shareholders.
So that's one.
Two my philosophical view on hedging hasn't changed nor amongst the board or the rest of the management from that perspective.
And I think some of the challenges you pointed out still existed.
There is some hedging that goes on at DCP for DPM.
So they do it at a very small basis just to predict their distribution down at that level.
And then last we have a joint venture partner in ConocoPhillips and they don't see any great desire to hedge either.
And as such we'd have to do it here at the Spectra level.
You'd have to do in on a dirty basis so you'd see inconsistencies.
You'd have to do it with oil.
So I continue to think look as the rest of the business grows at SE and we pay far more -- or we make far more than is required at the fee-based businesses than to pay the dividend I don't think our ownership of DCP Midstream in any way impacts the growth of our dividends.
And that's actually changed since back in 2007 where we didn't pay the dividend entirely out of our fee-based businesses.
So Craig at this point in time I wouldn't change it.
Now the contracting structures out there in the industry can change from time to time and if that's the case then that's separate.
But from a specific hedging perspective I wouldn't see us making any changes.
Inc.</strong> Well I guess the last point you kind of referenced is what I was trying to touch on.
My understanding weak as it is is that maybe we have gone from weeks to months in terms of petrochem contracting.
And with all the talk of now [ph] greenfield construction in North America for the first time in over 20 years and everybody converting the crackers to be able to on run lighter feedstock that the petrochems for the first time are kind of on an equal footing in terms of negotiating with the more diffused midstream players and that maybe really long-term contracts possibly measured in years might be available.
Yes again I mean we're not -- obviously if that's what the market really wants to go then that's something we'd be open to.
But the vast vast majority of contracts where we're current we are still on a POP [ph] basis.
And our customers at DCP continue to want to be served on that basis.
We do have some fee-based contracts very little on the  people [ph] side.
But yes I mean obviously we're not agnostic to where the industry wants to go.
I would suggest and if you look at the returns on our DCP business versus some of the peers in that regard the current structure served us very well and shareholders as well.
And even in challenging times back to 2009 we continued to see strong distributions from that company.
And Craig one nuance on that is that the kind of the standard NGL barrel out there would be sort of 40% ethane maybe 30% propane.
But just given the relative value of propane it's significantly more part of the economic barrel if you will than ethane is certainly today.
Inc.</strong> Understood.
And kind of on the last point that was being touched on in terms of the various high returns from DCP which is true.
I mean you guys are just off the charts on your cost basis there.
It's been a phenomenal investment.
But because of that also I think you all have highlighted that you're not inclined to monetize but to grow that asset and enjoy those returns off your low basis going forward.
I guess the question is how do you think the market should look at the value of this effectively private MLP in a period when publicly traded MLPs and their GP [general partnership] interests are reaching new highs? Well that's exactly what I think.
I think they should be looking at Spectra and Conoco as on a GP basis.
It should be more like how I see them looking at some of the Kinders and Enterprises and Williams with its split.
I mean we should be getting those types of valuations as far as I'm concerned.
But we're not going to -- Conoco and ourselves aren't going to change the structure that we have there at this point in time.
I think the market needs to look more at the cash flow that comes up and how we regenerate those very nice earnings into fee-based earnings which drive the dividend which is very much what I see from the other C corps and MLPs trying to do now.
Some of the things that I -- it's interesting to me because it seems like we already did that stuff back in 2007 and we just need to talk about that a little bit more show the cash flow that's coming home from DCP showing that being reinvested in the fee-based business and seeing all that cash up and help fund the dividend and dividend growth.
And then being self-funded it's ironic that with production shifting really to the oilier plays that benefits DCP quite a bit because they're the biggest player on the Permian and they're very active in the Eagle Ford among other areas.
And that's going to allow them to grow their volumes at about 3% to 5% increase their net income about 2% to 4% and again fund that $700 million to $900 million including maintenance CapEx internally.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And last question guys I appreciate it all.
Can you make any comments about how the storage market is shaping up for Bobcat? Well we don't have Bobcat built up until 2015 so obviously it's about where we thought it would be.
We knew that storage values were going to weaken and until you get this rebalancing done on the supply side and exactly what that means.
Our big driver around Bobcat continues to be the gas-fired generation the connection to multiple pipes et cetera that's going to be important as we get into the middle of the decade.
So we're moving forward with continuing to build out that pipeline but really earnings [indiscernible] coming into that '14 '15 timeframe.
Your next question comes from the line of Nathan Judge.
[Atlantic Equities] As we've gotten some of these rules from the EPA on  various [ph] emissions have you had a chance to kind of sharpen your pencil on what you'd expect from power generation opportunities for the pipeline side? Well as we look down what we do is we go along -- and take Texas Eastern for example you see in places like the Northeast region of that where we've got call it 50 coal plants within 30 miles of the pipe.
And as we kind of look at that and we look at the changes in the Southeast particularly in Florida and the Mid-Atlantic South look at Tennessee look at the Carolinas look at Georgia we see opportunities there.
And call it the Southeast probably $1.5 billion to $2 billion and in the Northeast I think you're talking about $500 million plus.
And the Southeast is a bigger number because there's a couple of big opportunites associated with things like Gulfstream.
There's going to be another need for a build to support all those plants in Florida.
In the Northeast it's much more the laterals.
And a good indication is the kind of stuff we're doing right now.
Well this is not the Northeast kind of projects that you'd see the East Tennessee the Northeast Tennessee project which is around $125 million $130 million lateral and then the Arkansas Hot Springs plant was about $40 million.
So you can see a number of smaller projects.
And those are obviously lower risk but nice returning projects and then a couple of big ones that I think would go on in the Southeast.
So that all that's going to play out over the next couple of years.
Most of that stuff is kind of '14 '15 and beyond in terms of buildouts in terms of the big ones.
But maybe that gives you an idea of the order magnitude anyways Nathan.
And just as it relates to the -- can you just remind us what rate cases you have pending or essentially in the next several years? We've got no rate cases currently pending in the United States.
In Canada we have a small rate hearing going on in Maritimes &amp; Northeast.
Our 5-year rate deal at Union complete -- finishes at the end of 2012 so we'll put a new one in place there.
And of course Western Canada they've just signed a new rate deal but they go in every 3 years but nothing significant.
You might recall that we had a settlement where we had a Section 5 going on in Ozark.
We've settled that and that's what FERC [ph] that they'll approve that over the next couple of months.
But that's no degradation in where we expect it to be from an earnings perspective.
[indiscernible] if you don't foresee a rate case  [indiscernible]? No I don't.
It's been a long time since we've had a rate case at Texas Eastern.
I think that's represented a good relationship between the shippers and ourselves in finding ways to cover our cost increases over the years and obviously the revenue changes and new services that they're looking for.
So I think it's been a good balance and a fair situation for both parties.
Just a follow-up on this but obviously the origination of the MEPS project has -- a part of that is related to some of the differentials now that are being seen where the gas supplies come from in the -- can you just comment on where you see Texas Eastern being -- how that's different and why that wouldn't replace or replicate some of the issues that we're seeing with your competitors? Well I think right now you don't have a way to get the ethane from the Marcellus down into the Gulf Coast.
So I think the advantage you have is some pipeline that's not being utilized which El Paso brings to the table some of the attributes we bring from the table whether it's rights-of-way or markets et cetera down here in the Gulf region.
I think the real driver is the fact that you've got a call it 600 million 650 million-barrel a day market in the Gulf Coast.
And that's where you want to be taking the ethane.
And again with announcements like that you could see several hundred thousand more a day happening here by the middle of the decade.
And again that's going to be the real driver.
So in effect that we've already -- there's already some pipeline and right-of-way available that's obviously be  easier than building all greenfield.
That MEPS project might be a couple [indiscernible] greenfield.
The rest of it would be using existing right-of-way and pipe.
And then last and definitely not least the expandability of a pipe versus some of the other options I think is going to be really critical for our customers because as they see increasing opportunities and the opportunity to build out more in the Gulf Coast region that expandability of a pipe I think is going to serve them better than say a marine solution et cetera.
And Nathan if you're asking about the parallel with respect to optionality we had in our December  contract renewals 94% renewal rates on TETCO and Algonquin with a year to remarket the slight amounts that were turned back and very good progress there.
I think that's just a reflection of the option value that both producers and end users see on Texas Eastern.
All the supply basins that we access from the Gulf forward and the potential to move gas -- to continue to move gas to the Southeast as those markets expand and as coal plant conversions takes place.
I guess what I was referring to is as we see more production from perhaps the Northeast from sales we've seen some commentary from your competitors saying that the volumes being shipped from natural gas volumes not ethane being shipped from the Southeast up to the Northeast is perhaps is not being as utilized as it once was before.
And I just wanted to ask how as a follow-on to that how could the decision by Excelerate and the potential for decommissioning the O&amp;G down in the Gulf Coast have on impact on both storage and usage for shipping gas north to east.
Totally unrelated.
I think if you look at Texas Eastern again we're seeing peak days across our system.
If you think about the amount of gas coming from the Eagle Ford and other locations down here and while maybe some of the gas might not all the way up north those pipelines I'm convinced are going to be utilized.
I think if you look at those statistics if you go out 20 years you're still going to find about 40% of the gas produced in the lower 48 coming from the Gulf Coast region.
And if you're an LDC in New York or New Jersey you can do a lot of things.
But you can't run out of gas in the winter so you've got to be able to make sure those contracts are in place.
It's a flowthrough on the cost basis.
The cost of holding that pipeline capacity is pretty minimal when you think about that so I don't see that.
With respect to the Gateway situation in the Gulf remember that's actually not related to anything with respect to changing supply dynamics.
The wells that supported that were damaged in the hurricanes and they never came back and so that created some challenge in and around the system.
And the LNG facility this wasn't going to be operated in the same way that they thought.
So I don't think it's so much the changing the supplies as it was to some of the weather impacts in and around that region.
I appreciate that.
And then just to confirm on the Ontario storage expansion can you just give us a little bit more on that as well as if that's going to be outside of Great Basin? Is that correct? Yes that's just a couple of -- it's pretty small.
And yes that's one of those projects that we'll take advantage of given the new regulatory structure in place.
There's probably less than a couple of hundred million dollars of additional storage opportunities in Ontario right now.
The real benefit is as you pointed out we've pulled about 1/3 of our storage out of regulation and have seen the benefit of market rates there.
And even with depressed storage prices across North America right now those are still better returns than you get from a regular perspective.
Your next question is from the line of Faisel Khan.
[Citigroup Research] Just a couple of quick questions.
In terms of the G&amp;P volumes in Western Canada what was the volume year-over-year? Did I miss that in the press release? Because I couldn't quite find it.
Yes it's usually in the quarterly highlights piece.
But we're just flipping through.
So process volumes in Western Canada were 176 TBtu.
And if you're thinking about Empress there basically flat kind of 181 to 187 TBtu the Inlet Volumes there.
Okay because I was trying to figure out what the differential was with some of the new volumes and new projects because of bottom line in British Columbia.
Well remember Faisel this is a really important point that that's a fee-based business so the volumes don't always tell you.
What it is is the contracted volumes.
So as we put the capital on the ground we have contracted volumes.
You may not always see that type of uptick that would correspond with the earnings.
You've got people paying you fees to have the assets there as opposed to necessarily just utilized.
Obviously we like them fully utilized but that's why it's not the same type of indicator that you can get out of DCP Midstream in the U.S.
for example.
Okay sorry so you're saying that the fee-based contracts are -- they pay a fixed fee on a monthly basis? Absolutely just like the pipeline system.
Okay.
They're not paying you a volume metric fee? Correct.
Okay understood.
And then if I'm looking at -- Pat I think you talked about in the quarter at DCP some of the colder weather decreased the efficiency of the plant.
Is that a function of some of the older plants not having kind of a higher cut of the ethane and propanes that weather affects those plants a little bit more than some of the newer plants that you guys have online? Or it across the entire system? I think it's that it's sort of the age of the plants and not across the entire system.
The newer plants that we're building have the ability to take a deeper cut and are less weather-sensitive.
Well the other thing Faisel is you ramp up and down on power.
You have rolling blackouts and water cut [ph] that makes your plants inefficient to be able to do that.
You have freeze-ups you're not running your plants at full capacity.
That makes them inefficient so it's a combination of all those things that the best plants run at full tilt all out all full.
No further questions at this time.
Okay.
If there are no further questions then we'll just say thank you for joining us today.
We appreciate it very much and we'd like to remind you that next Tuesday we will be in Boston for breakfast and in New York for lunch.
So if you haven't already given us your indication as to whether or not you'll be joining us we'd appreciate it if you do that.
And as always if there are any additional questions please feel free to contact Roni or me.
Again thank you very much for joining us today.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is May and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Spectra Energy Quarterly Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Arensdorf.
Sir you may begin the conference.
Thanks May and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Spectra Energy's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Review.
We are very pleased that you've joined us today.
Leading our discussion will be Greg Ebel our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Pat Reddy our Chief Financial Officer.
Both Greg and Pat will discuss our quarterly results and provide more color around our strategic plans to enhance the value Spectra Energy delivers to its shareholders.
We'll then open the lines for your questions.
Before we begin let me take a moment to remind you that some of the things we will discuss today concern future company performance and include forward-looking statements within the meanings of the securities laws.
Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements.
You should refer to the additional information contained in Spectra Energy's Form 10-K and in our other SEC filings concerning factors that could cause these results to be different from those contemplated in today's discussion.
In addition today's discussion includes certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC Reg G.
A reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available on our Investor Relations website at spectraenergy.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks John and good morning everybody.
As I'm sure you've seen from our earnings release this morning Spectra Energy delivered a second quarter ongoing earnings of $275 million or $0.42 per share up an impressive 56% from our second quarter 2010 results.
Our second quarter performance is nicely ahead of the curve which we're pleased about and we've got still 2 quarters to go including the important fourth quarter.
But borrowing some macroeconomic calamity we fully expect to exceed our stated $1.65 earnings per share target for 2011.
The key earnings drivers for the quarter included a strong performance from all of our business segments from both an operational and expansion growth perspective.
Favorable commodity prices are also playing out nicely for our DCP and Empress assets with a positive outlook for the remainder of the year.
And of course we realized the benefits of a much stronger Canadian dollar.
However commodity prices and FX only accounted for about 2/3 of our earnings growth for the quarter so perhaps more importantly roughly 1/3 of the growth was achieved through successfully executing on expansion projects.
Those projects continue to meet the needs of customers and deliver strong earnings to investors.
Those were our key drivers for the quarter but we're also looking beyond the quarter's reach ensuring that we've got a strong platform for delivering consistent attractive value and growth for investors.
Throughout our discussion today you'll hear us touch on the strategic opportunities we're pursuing to ensure that we are indeed well positioned in the years ahead.
A key to our forward positioning is a very deliberate and diverse capital expansion program.
We're making strategic investments to expand our footprint connect customers and markets with supply and create critically-needed energy infrastructure across North America.
So here are some of the projects fueling are our growth beginning with those recently placed in the service.
We placed the Hot Springs Lateral into service in June and you'll recall this pipeline will supply natural gas to the 620-megawatt KGen Hot Springs power plant in Arkansas.
Our Fourth Cavern at our Moss Bluff storage facility begun producing revenues during the quarter and will provide an incremental 6.5 Bcf of capacity increasing that facility's total working capacity to more than 21 Bcf.
And during last quarter's call we mentioned and youll recall that both Gulfstream V and the Bissette Pipeline in British Columbia went into service in April.
Importantly all 4 projects came into service at or below our budget.
Other projects on the horizon and well underway for 2011 include phase II of the TIME III project -- sorry Phase II of the TEMAX/TIME III project which is close to completion.
And the TEMAX/TIME III expansion project links Rocky Mountains and natural gas supplies with customers in the Northeast where we expect to see continued natural gas demand growth.
We began receiving full revenue from the TEMAX project in November 2010 as you might recall.
This year's additions expand the project's physical scope and provide customers with increased flexibility.
The Dawson Processing Plant in the Montney region of British Columbia is progressing well.
And as planned we expect Phase I to come into service later this year with Phase II to follow in early 2013 or potentially even late 2012 given the progress that we've seen so far.
We're in the final stages of construction on our Northeast Tennessee or NET project and we'll complete that project in September.
NET will utilize our East Tennessee system to move gas from the Appalachian supply base into a new 880-megawatt TVA power plant.
It's a good example of some of the power conversion opportunities we've been talking about with you.
Opportunities that we think we're ideally suited to serve.
So good progress on our 2011 projects and looking ahead we've got several other significant projects within service dates beyond 2011.
Our New Jersey-New York project is proceeding.
In late June we received FERC's notice of schedule for the project's environmental review and in that FERC indicated issuing the final environmental impact statement in late January 2012.
We would expect the FERC certificate to follow shortly thereafter.
Although this is a little later than we originally anticipated we're pleased to have greater clarity on the regulatory timing for this project and we remained on track to safely place the project into service in late 2013.
Our large-scale Fort Nelson Expansion continues within Canada's Horn River Basin.
We're well on-track to complete the Fort Nelson North Processing Facility during the first half of 2012.
And upon completion of this project Spectra Energy will have more than 1.2 billion cubic feet per day of raw gas processing capacity and associated gathering pipeline in the Fort Nelson area securing our leading position in the basin.
And of course all of our Fort Nelson contracts are underpinned by fixed-fee take-or-pay contracts.
In addition to the project I just discussed which we fund from Spectra Energy's balance sheet our Field Services segment DCP Midstream is pursuing a number of significant projects which they will fund using their own strong balance sheet.
We now expect to see a considerable ramp up in DCP's investment opportunities fueled by its ability to fully leverage its strong existing asset footprint in regions with growing gas and liquids production.
DC [DCP] Midstream has its own slate of growth projects to the tune of $700 million to $800 million a year for the next several years.
Quite a leap from the $200 million to $300 million annual investment it has averaged over the last several years.
And as I mentioned DCP Midstream's capital plan will be self-funded.
DCP Midstream is continuing to expand its processing capacity in liquids-rich basins such as the Denver-Julesberg the DJ Basin the Permian and the Eagle Ford.
And as you've heard recently these basins are now ramping up volumes which bode well for DCP with its large and expanding asset footprint in the areas.
In May DCP Midstream completed the new $150 million cubic feet per day processing plant at its newborn facility in the DJ.
Also in May DCP announced the addition of a new 110 million cubic feet per day in LaSalle plant in the DJ basin which will be in service in mid-2013.
These new plants augment DCP's prominent position in the basin and we expect there'll be other expansion projects as producers continue to drill in the DJ and Niobrara.
DCP Midstream is the largest gatherer and processor in the DJ and the business continues to invest capital to accommodate growing producer demand in this area as well as in the Eagle Ford and the Permian regions.
While DCP had a slow start to its volume growth early in the year mainly due to weather it's now seeing an increase in both wellhead volumes and NGL production across its portfolio.
As an example DCP is benefiting from this increase in volumes in Eagle Ford where it's continuing to sign new contracts as production volumes build.
Construction has begun on the previously announced 200 million cubic feet a day Eagle plant which will be in service during the second half of 2012.
And also during the quarter DCP Midstream announced the acquisition of the Seaway pipeline from ConocoPhillips which will provide the backbone for DCP Southern Hills pipeline.
DCP expects to close on the acquisition during the last quarter of the year and with some added construction to close the gap between Conway Kansas and Mont Belvieu the pipeline will be in service by mid-2013.
Upon completion the total project cost will be approximately $750 million to $850 million including that initial acquisition cost.
Southern Hills' 150 000 barrel per day capacity will be utilized to transport DCP's owned or controlled volumes in the mid-continent and DJ basin along with volumes from other shippers.
And when completed Southern Hills will substantially reduce the bottleneck at Connolly [ph] allowing liquids to more easily reach the premium-priced Mont Belvieu markets.
DCP is also making great strides on its Sandhills Pipeline project and we see moving forward with this NGL pipeline that will connect the Permian basin and Eagle Ford to Mont Belvieu.
In addition to the volumes that it owns and controls DCP Midstream has entered into agreements with targets and anchor shipper preliminary agreements with Occidental Petroleum for key right away in the congested Mont Belvieu area and preliminary agreements for the long term NGL gathering services with Chevron's majority owned West Texas LPG pipeline.
DCP Midstream will present the project to its Board for approval later this month.
As you'll note from my comments on both Southern Hills and Sandhills DCP's ability to dedicate significant volumes it controls to underwrite these projects is a huge strategic advantage for the company.
Let's turn now to some of the other growth opportunities we see on the horizon regressively pursuing a number of projects on the drawing board projects that move us forward and create quality earnings and growth on behalf of Spectra Energy's investors.
Last quarter we also addressed some of the broader fundamental shifts that are creating opportunities and growth potential.
In British Columbia we've seen producers refocus drilling activity from Horn River to the Montney region which appears to have low refining and development costs and better overall economics.
As a result of our existing large footprint in the Montney we're actively pursuing a number of growth opportunities in this region.
Also in British Columbia the likelihood of LNG exports from Western Canada is increasing.
A shift that Spectra Energy's ideally situated to support by connecting growing Horn River and Montney supplies to virtually any LNG facility developed on the west coast to British Columbia.
Next growth in the Marcellus region has created an opportunity provided outlet for the liquids associated with rich gas particularly ethane.
The Marcellus Ethane Pipeline System or MEPS as we call it is a joint venture between Spectra Energy and El Paso connecting this ethane supply with markets along the Gulf Coast.
We continue to receive high levels of interest during the ongoing open season and are now in the progress of negotiating contracts with customers.
And as we've indicated before we'll expect to be able to share an announcement with you on that front before year end.
Lastly and a little further out in time is the largely growing opportunity associated with power generators seeking to convert older coal and oil fuel plants to clean our more efficient natural gas and a more fully utilized existing natural gas facilities.
Taking a look some of these opportunities the ICF data on this chart shows a powerful trend of natural gas demand growth related to power generation expected to more than double by the end of the decade.
Others have similar projections regarding this growth and demand so we expect to see many opportunities across our footprint as power generators consider their next steps.
While much of this growth will come in the latter part of the decade Spectra Energy intends to win its fair share of these opportunities.
These range from increasing the utilization of the 55 gigawatts of gas generation already connected to our footprint to serving new plants that will replace retiring coal or oil-fired generation.
More than 100 gigawatts of coal or oil-fired generation sits within 30 miles of the U.S.
pipeline that we own.
And while not all of these facilities will be replaced the opportunity is significant.
In addition to these opportunities in the U.S.
in the Ontario government has announced its intention to convert some 3 500 megawatts of coal plants to natural gas-fired generation.
All of these facilities are in Union Gas' service territory and we expect to benefit from these conversions.
The customer support services storage capacity and operational flexibility of Spectra's assets are attractive to power generators across North America and we're going to continue pursuing our efforts to be the pipeline of choice to serve this growing gas-fired power demand.
So as you can see Spectra Energy's projects in execution combined with the tremendous potential of growing natural gas demand and deployment support our goal of investing at least $5 million in growth projects between 2011 and '15.
And DCP Midstream has experienced a historic levels of growth which will support its own expansion opportunities for more than $3 billion over the next 5 years.
So with a great second quarter and we're well positioned for a strong second half of the year and we're equally focused on the future well beyond 2011 to ensure a strong platform for delivering consistent and sustainable value and earnings growth to you our investors.
With that let me turn things over to Pat who will walk you through our financial results for the quarter in more detail Well thank you Greg and good morning.
Earlier today we reported second quarter 2011 ongoing earnings of $275 million or $0.42 per share compared with $174 million or $0.27 per share in the second quarter of 2010.
As Greg mentioned the 56% year-over-year increase in earnings per share reflects the progress we've made on executing growth projects improved commodity prices and a more favorable Canadian exchange rate.
In addition to delivering strong earnings for the quarter we continue to benefit from our healthy financial position.
During the quarter Union Gas issued $300 million of 30-year Canadian debt at a company record low coupon rate of below 5%.
And following receipt of its investment grade credit rating our master limited partnership Spectra Energy Partners issued $500 million of term debt and about $215 million of equity.
These proceeds were used to pay down SEP term loans on June 30 and to fund the Big Sandy acquisition on July 1.
We expect SEP to continue to pursue organic growth and acquisition opportunities to help grow the entire Spectra Energy enterprise to its low-cost tax efficient financing structure.
And as you would expect with the growth we're experiencing we're seeing significant increases in both EBIT and EBITDA which helps fund our future growth CapEx program so let's take a quick look at our EBITDA by business segment.
Ongoing EBITDA for the quarter was $816 million compared with $657 million in the second quarter of 2010 a 24% increase year-over-year.
Before we leave this Slide it's worth highlighting that with the level of increased cash flow coupled with the benefits of bonus depreciation we are now able to fund more than half of our expansion CapEx through internally generated funds and that's after fully funding our dividend and maintenance CapEx.
Said another way our balance sheet continues to strengthen with the increased cash generated from our capital expansion program.
Let's turn now to our performance by business segment beginning with U.S.
Transmission which reported second quarter 2011 EBIT of $243 million compared with $223 million in the second quarter of 2010.
The key drivers behind this 9% increase are expansion projects placed into service during the fourth quarter of 2010 including TEMAX/TIME III and Algonquin east to west.
Now let's move on to Distribution.
Distribution reported second quarter 2011 EBIT of $88 million compared with $73 million in the prior-year quarter.
This 21% improvement is mainly attributable to higher customer usage due to colder weather growth in the number of residential customers and increased in revenues from short-term transportation services and a stronger Canadian dollar.
A significant contributor to Distribution's quarter-over-quarter increase relates to weather.
In the second quarter of 2011 we saw a return to more normal weather following an abnormally warm second quarter in 2010.
And the effect of that change coupled with the growth in residential customers was about $8 million for the 2011 quarter.
Let me turn now to Western Canada Transmission and Processing.
That segment reported second quarter 2011 EBIT of $113 million compared with $69 million in the second quarter of 2010 or a 64% increase.
The segment benefited from improved results in the base gathering and processing business mainly driven by expansions in the Horn River area British Columbia placed into service in 2010.
In addition our Empress natural gas liquids business continues to perform beyond initial expectations laid out in our financial plan for the year and performs significantly better than in the second quarter of 2010.
You will recall that the 2010 plant turnaround not only net higher cost during last year's second quarter but also led to reduced NGL sales volumes.
The Western Canada segment also benefited from the effects of the stronger Canadian dollar.
Let's turn now to Field Services.
Field Services reported second quarter 2011 EBIT of $138 million compared with $58 million in the 2010 quarter.
This 138% increase in earnings was due mainly to higher commodity prices during the second quarter of 2011.
During the quarter in-shale prices averaged $1.24 per gallon versus $0.91 per gallon in the second quarter of last year.
NYMEX natural gas averaged about $4.31 versus $4.09 last year and crude oil average approximately $103 per barrel compared with $78 last year.
DCP Midstream paid distributions of $62 million to Spectra Energy in the second quarter of 2011.
Our year-to-date distributions from DCP currently totaled $270 million including a distribution receives in July.
We expect to receive a total at least $350 million in distributions in 2011.
Now let me turn to additional items for the quarter.
Our Other category reported net costs of $29 million in the second quarter of 2011 compared with net costs of $16 million in last year's quarter reflecting higher captive insurance reserves.
Year-to-date our other expenses are in line with our financial plan.
Interest expense was $159 million compared with $158 million in the second quarter of 2010.
The second quarter's reported effective tax rate was 29.6% compared with 28.5% last year.
The favorable Canadian currency exchange rate increased second quarter 2011 after-tax earnings by about $6 million.
At the end of the second quarter our debt to total capitalization ratio stood at about 54% and that's down from 56% at year end.
As I mentioned earlier with the increase in our EBIT and EBITDA versus last year we expect to fund our CapEx program through a combination of internally generated funds and debt while staying within our targeted 55% to 60% range per leverage.
And at the quarter's close we had total capacity under our credit facilities of $2.8 billion and available liquidity of $2.7 billion which included cash of about $500 million.
On July 1 we used about $400 million of cash to fund the Big Sandy Pipeline acquisition.
So that's an overview of our second quarter results which are nicely ahead of our expectations.
I don't think there's a peer company today more ideally positioned to lead and prosper in the natural gas energy infrastructure sector.
We feel very good about where we are today and where were headed for the balance of the year.
Our financial position and our corporate structure allow us to execute our 2011 financial and business plans and keep us on track to deliver the results investors expect for us.
We set our 2011 EPS target at $1.65 and as Greg just mentioned we fully expect to exceed that target this year.
So when considering Spectra Energy as a whole investors can expect to receive an attractive dividend yield and consistent EPS growth generating an impressive total shareholder return.
We think that's a compelling value proposition and we will continue to deliver value and growth to our investors both this year and well into the future.
So with that we'll open the lines and we'll entertain your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Stephen Maresca.
I wanted -- a couple questions on the opportunities at DCP.
First on Sandhills can you talk about where and what the next steps are? Where you stand on commitments and sort of how we should think about this ramp-up in volumes from an initial 200 for the possible 350? Yes.
I mean I think the initial look you should kind of think about the 200 we have -- confident that DCP management's is going to bring a very positive case to the Board which as you know is made up of Conoco and Spectra later this month.
And I think from what I've seen we feel pretty good about moving forward.
I don't think there's any doubt we're going to forward.
We got to go through corporate approvals.
When we go to 350 000 barrels I think that's all about how the growth kind of moves forward over the longer term.
The nice thing again about this is that we've got well over call it 2/3 of that initial volume under our control that we can underwrite the pipeline on.
And as I said I think that's a huge strategic advantage.
So at this point in time Stephen I can't see any reason why we're not full steam ahead and get this pipeline in service and given that we're now seeing volumes in places like the Eagle Ford above what we have thought at this point in time in the year.
That kind of acceleration goes on.
Who knows? Maybe we can get the growth maybe even faster than we had thought up to that 350 000.
Okay.
And then on Southern Hills is that falling right now? The 150 barrels a day of new capacity or is that what will come on in 2013? Well that's what will come on because right now it's not an NGL pipeline right? So when we take it over we'll have to do some construction and then obviously make some changes from an operating perspective.
So that'll be incremental.
And that's not all reliant on incremental volumes coming out of those regions because remember right now DCP would be shipping on other pipelines.
So as pipelines where we've made commitments those commitments those contracts end we would move those over to Southern Hills.
Okay.
And then my final question is shifting up to Western Canada.
You talked about future shifting I think you said from the Horn River to Montney and obviously the LNG export possibility seems to be increasing.
Can you remind what from your standpoint what you would need to do and how directly impact will it be to you guys? Well when we look at this in early days and obviously competitive but there's nobody with a pipeline going north to south closer to the coasts than Spectra Energy that's for sure.
So we would build the lateral from the northern part of the West Coast pipeline indicate them at or wherever the facility would be.
Pretty tough territory up there again early days but that's probably -- call it $1.5 billion $2 billion worth of an opportunity.
What has to happen of course is a couple of things: one you have to have an export licensed by the customers we would serve in other words producers; two they have to get their approvals to build the plan or feel very confident they can build a plan; and then it would be at that point in time that they would think about making commitments to a pipeline.
So we are probably last in the train trail if you will in terms of what they've got to do but nonetheless we're just very optimistic and obviously we'll be very aggressively we've been in that region for a very long time.
We have almost 1 000 people that work for us in British Columbia and given our position and the ability to not only transport gas but also process and gather gas in that region we think some really big leg up for us.
And your next question comes from the line of Monroe Helm.
Just a quick question on what the capital cost would be for the both Sandhills project and the Southern Hills project? Monroe we haven't put out those numbers yet to any full extent only -- it's obviously a pretty competitive environment.
I did say Southern Hill is kind of be in the $750 million to $850 million range including the acquisition.
I think it's probably fair for me to say Sandhills depending on how we build that out call it in $1 billion range but I wouldn't get more specific at this point in time.
Once we get approved ready to go and little further down the trail I can be more specific at that time.
Okay.
If I heard correctly you think there's a good chance the Board's going to approve the Sand Hills project this month is that what you said? That is correct.
Okay.
And you got their commitment for 2/3 the initial volumes pretty much have that in hand? Correct.
Your next question comes the line of Ted Durbin.
First question Conoco obviously has announced their restructuring.
They haven't really said what they're going to do with their stake with DCP have they given you any indication? And then can you remind us what is your option if they decided to sell it? And if you did take 100% control would change your policy at all on how you operate it? Well first of all I would say that we love the partnership with Conoco and for many if there are indication I get from them they like the partnership as well.
So I would expect that one way whether it goes upstream or downstream my personal view is that they'd probably hold the asset and I think that would be viable for everybody and it would actually make DCP a larger entity within Conoco again whether it's upstream or downstream.
And I think I can make strong cases to go either way but that's obviously a Conoco decision if they decide to sell.
You're right we do have a welfare again I'm not expecting that but that's something we'd obviously look at that would change the structure and maybe you do some things differently if that happened.
But again I don't expect that to be the case.
As I outlined there are great growth prospects for DCP Midstream and given the self-funded nature of DCP Midstream when you combine in DPM I like the business I like Conoco and if there's an opportunity down the road to change that obviously it's something we'd look at it.
Okay.
And then just going back to the Southern Hills pipeline I guess I'm just thinking more about the differentials we have between Conway and Belvieu very wide right now.
Do you see those narrowing at all before this pipeline comes in service? I mean we're looking at the next couple of years of having pretty wide differentials.
And then just one for Southern Hills itself would you go ahead there as well with just DCP volumes or would you need third party volumes to actually start that up? No I think we're pretty comfortable with -- that it's a go.
We bought the asset -- we made that decision when we bought the asset Ted.
So and I think the advantage we have is being there now.
And we feel confident that we've got enough volumes to move forward.
With respect to the differentials a bit of a mugs game.
I think as pipeline infrastructure foreshadows the change in a bottleneck like you're removing it I wouldn't be surprised to see narrow a bit.
But until you're actually flowing who knows? I will say if you look at the pet-chem industry in the United States I mean look at May June numbers we're talking about 91% 92% capacity utilization up from kind of mid-80s even a month before.
You continue to see propane supplies well below 10% 20% below 5-year inventories.
We've continued to see good exports.
So I don't see the market in much of that all going on in the Gulf Coast changing.
And as such I think that bottleneck -- there may be even more opportunities to build.
So I don't see the differential disappearing entirely that's for darn sure.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just maybe talk a little bit more about the Bobcat expansion.
Are you sort of moving faster or maybe moving slower given that we have a pretty weak market there on the expansion project? Yes I see most of our build was kind of in the '14 '15 or '16 time frame so I wouldn't say we're moving any slower or faster.
Youre right there's some weakness in storage prices given the way in which we contract though.
We have multiyear contracts single year contracts et cetera.
So we're plus or minus 10% of where we thought we would be.
Like you kind of maybe a little at 10% lower than what might be -- have seen in our regular portfolio from a storage perspective.
But it does not change the overall view we have on storage the need for that from a power perspective the need for that both in the market area and in the supplier area so we're still driving forward Bobcat that's for sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Shere.
Inc.</strong> Couple of quick ones.
On MEPS can you comment on the level of interest you're receiving from petrochems relative to producers and then if I can kind of dovetail on Ted's question.
A couple of peers this morning have kind of put out some rough performance on gas storage operations you kind of alluded to it but right where noted your contract portfolio.
We heard of some more current contracting rates multiyear running south to say $0.14 per mcf month I'm just wondering if you can comment if you're seeing similar figures in the current market and if you can advise what remaining average contract durations exist on the operating caverns of South Hill Market Hub and Bobcat.
Well let's sort of go in a reverse order to make sure I remember all your questions.
So I'd say on the storage front our typical contract life remains in that 2 to 3 year range.
And as such Craig we're not being buffed it as bad as perhaps many others are by who have kind of stop with short-term contracts.
But I wouldn't disagree with there's no doubt that you're seeing considerably lower storage prices today but as I mentioned in Ted's comment that in terms of our overall value in the storage side you might see a 10% impact in terms of the overall portfolio given the way that we do structure the contracts.
And again my view is this is just a rebalancing of the gas market its why we structure our contracts over multi-years so that you don't end up having -- when you see a dramatic change in storage values over a short period it really doesn't have a material impact on Spectra Energy.
It's a long-term story is I think is the one we want to look at and that we think is going to continue to be driven a lot by power demand and the need for deliverability et cetera across the system which we think we can do when you tied into our pipes.
You talked -- your first question was MEPS petrochem and producers.
I'm going to beg off a little bit I give it really -- what I will say is that yes we have both petrochem and producer interest which is different than what we've seen historically but given the -- let's face it there's a dogfight for who's going to get this project and I like where we are I like our partner I like what we're doing but I'm not going to get into the some of our strategies and what we're seeing with the open season Craig.
Okay.
Since this is probably not going to be online I think well as of 2014 and then maybe some needs earlier do you think you can get firm contracted commitments even while a shorter-term bandage solution is put on? Yes.
And remember we've done a little bit of that a lot of the pipelines by adjusting gas quality issues over the last 18 months which as you know is really a tough issue to work with the various different customers.
And so I would say that is at least a little bit respect to Texas Eastern that is the short-term band-aid solution.
I think longer-term yes.
I think the guys are looking at when I say the guys producers and the Dows of the world they're looking at opportunities much further out than the short term and they're looking to make major capital investments and they will be looking to sign up long-term contracts.
What I can also tell you is we're not going to build the pipe unless we do see that.
That's been our mantra and I think that's boded well for investors and El Paso would be on the same Page.
.
Your next question comes from the line of Carl Kirst.
Just a couple quick follow-ups I guess from sort of the things that have been asked.
Well really maybe one with respect to DCP and generically as we approach now the new project Southern Hills Sandhills are the economics on say for instance these pipelines in particular are these more fee based? Are these more equity volumes? I'm trying to kind of get a better sense of as we ramp and have more capital deployed at DCP do we wind up kind of keeping the same commodity sensitivity if you will or are we migrating more towards fee-based? And as long as Conoco stays a partner and presumably wants to focus on being liquids-rich presumably they want that commodity sensitivity so we're just trying to get a better understanding of perhaps the future economics of these projects.
Right so if you look at that slide we put out I think it was Slide 4 or 5 probably #5.
Obviously Mewbourn LaSalle Eagle those plants are your more typical activities of DCP in higher-return type structures if you will.
But no doubt the large capital expenditures at Southern Hills and Sandhills are much more fee-based and so you would see those as less returns as what we've maybe historically seen.
However remember it's better than just your typical pipeline because as I mentioned we do have some of our own volumes that will underwrite those so you're being able to capture the differential the basis differential there when you sell in the product the end product at Mount Belvieu.
And so you get a fee-based plus a kicker in being to attract the higher price from the better markets and higher-demand area in Mount Belvieu.
So it's a bit of both Carl.
But ultimately that would reduce the sensitivity but we're growing volumes fast and remember DCP I'm not sure if the market always recognized it is a huge entity and so even a $700 million or $800 million a year to substantially change the structure or nature of the portfolio would take several years of being -- to do that to make a big impact.
Do you understand? Absolutely.
One micro-question if I could.
Actually just turning to Canada and Empress.
Even with the turnaround not being experienced here this year I'm wondering kind of what you guys are seeing say for instance July third quarter here.
We actually looked like flowed a good did through Empress' third quarter of 2010.
And I didn't know if we were seeing roughly parody year-over-year or if we're actually seeing volumes that are 15% 20% down I just didn't know if you have more of real-time data point there.
If you look at the inlet volumes at Empress they're up substantially from last year in the first half and in the second quarter.
And there's no doubt we had a pretty cold winter as you know Carl and that the important element or one of the key elements there is propane.
Now as I mentioned propane inventories are well below their 5-year average in North America.
I would suggest if you have any kind of a start to the winter which I never underestimated Mother Nature I think you could see continued nice performance there at Empress.
First half was already pretty flat powerful second half maybe not quite so powerful but we're hanging in there our own.
And we seem to capture more than others given our ability the way in which we can process some of that gas.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Wong [ph].
Quick question here of Southern Hills.
Is there expansion potential beyond the 150 that you have mentioned? Yes a little bit but it's not to the same extent to when you're building a new pipe like Sandhills where you could go from 200 to 350 so we're not assuming that's a big upsize Steven.
That's why I said I think there is plenty of volume we just -- I think our metal strap is a faster metal strap if you will given that we're already flying a significant portion of pipe in the ground.
But that's not something we're banking on at this point in time but as I see with other of our infrastructure just on the natural gas side we're always able to find ways to add a little bit of compression add some but I wouldn't -- 150 should be the number you should think about from a longer-term perspective at this point.
And then I think you mentioned that you have contract -- DCP has contract at roll-off.
When does that happen and I guess that'll be before 2013? And who are the -- who's the main shipper you guys use today? Well the main shipper in that regard with respect to Southern Hills will be ONEOK.
And those -- we are  very fortunate that as volumes grow in those basins being served by Southern Hills we have contracts running off from transportation we would have contracted 4 years ago.
So that's a nice confluence of events Steven is that it really allow us to underline that pipeline.
And I have a question for Pat here I guess.
At the end of the year what do you expect of the debt to cap to be? We're at 54% now and I would think 54% 55% would be where we'd be at year end.
And then so Greg when we look out for the next year or 2 with all the projects that are -- it looks like it's definitely over a billion dollars a year for the next couple of years.
Do you anticipate external equity needs right now? No I don't.
A couple of figures: one just the cash that we're generating from the projects that exist today and when we've -- we also give a little equity kickers when things happen at SEP overtime so I sure don't need us or see us just getting any common equity from Spectra over the 3-year plan if you will.
Your next question comes from Nathan Judge.
Just wanted to follow up on the North New Jersey-New York project.
If you could just give us an update given some of the comments [indiscernible] Yes.
Well I would say as I said the FERC's come out and that the FERC is the big approval.
And that's a set for getting the final environmental certificate in late January and we'd expect the go forward certificate shortly thereafter.
Jersey City is one city in many in that area.
I think that we're addressing virtually all the concerns of the various cities there.
Do I expect to get every person on side? No but this will be one of it that at least the safest pipeline being built in the area.
It's going to produce 5 000 jobs it's absolutely critical if the politicians in that area the world are worried about what citizens are paying full for energy prices Nathan.
Just 2  weeks ago Thursday Friday when it was hot in Jersey and New York by our calculations those citizens paid $35 million more in that 24 36  hour period for electricity just because there was not additional pipeline to bring gas into that region.
So I think the economics I think the jobs I think the safety that we are putting in place are going to see this pipeline move forward and we'll get it in service in November 2013.
And just as far as the Governor's Office I think there has been some comments in the past about questions about the pipeline and safety is addressed.
And obviously you've addressed some of those questions but do you expect to have any comments from the Governor's Office anytime soon? Well I wouldn't be typical.
I think maybe what you should look at is the master energy plan put out by New Jersey which is obviously put forward on behalf of the Governor.
And it is very strong natural gas-centric very strong on the need for new and expanded pipelines and gas-fired generation.
All of which would suggest a very positive attitude towards pipelines like New Jersey-New York.
Also I think 5 000 jobs in that region of the world is a pretty powerful source of support as well.
Sure.
And then just as a follow on to the TEAM opportunities.
I mean if indeed this does go forward as you anticipate when should we hear more about TEAM and potential there and can you kind of quantify the size of that? Yes.
I think that's TEAM is expected to come into -- TEAM 2012 is expected to come into service late next year so that's moving forward Nathan.
I'm sorry just to clarify.
I just mean the -- you talked about your growth opportunities and then you mentioned TEAM and clearly there's some desire for new pipeline.
Yes.
Well I think you're going to continue to hear about those as we move forward.
Nathan I would expect that you'll see -- we'll continue and announce that as we go forward here.
We're looking at TEAM 2013 is there a project there.
We've talked about some 2013 2014 projects.
I think as you know it typically takes us 18 months 2 years so as we get to the end of this year and starting into next year I think you'll start hearing about some of those additional opportunity.
Yes.
When I look at it if I add up all those opportunities' potential you're talking about $7 billion or $8 million maybe up to $9 billion of opportunities we see out there from everything the northeast and the southeast.
And then you throw on the DCP opportunities it is not a stretch for me to see us facing up to $10 billion of opportunities on a combined basis between DCP and Spectra over the next say 5 years or so.
Will we get all those? No but we're going to get more than our fair share and at least call it at least $0.5 billion of that will be in the northeast.
That's very helpful.
And just to follow-up if you could just remind us on your view of mergers and acquisitions given some of the activities of late.
Well as you know we have picked up assets each year more in that kind of a $500 million to $2 billion range.
There's no doubt that the acquisition market is frappy.
And my view is when we look at acquisitions we are largely looking as we've always stated by using the MLP particularly for assets of those size one and those are highly accretive both to the MLP and really highly accretive Spectra Energy; and two I'm really thankful that we've got $10 billion of opportunities to go after because I don't think there's any doubt while it takes a little bit longer you can build cheaper than you can buy in this market.
So if we had our drivers it would it be to build.
Where we would look to acquire is when if we look at a significant footprint expansion opportunities for us.
But those aren't part of our plan or needed for us to be able to achieve the type of earnings growth and shareholder return we've been discussing.
Can I just put the equation and just that can you answer the questions about potential being the seller? Us being a seller?  Well my view is we keep growing the company the way we're growing and get the returns that we're seeing.
That's never a concern to me.
I guess someone has going to have to pay a very high price.
I mean our focus expanding the business and growing it and I don't worry at all that being a seller frankly.
Your next question comes from the line of Becca Followill.
On Southern Hills you may have said this but how much is your own NGLs that you're going to put on the line? You said how many capacities you're going to take? Think about in the 50% maybe up to 65% but 50% to 65% of that capacity would be us.
Okay.
And then on the MEPS system realizing that's going to be end of the year before we get something it has.
Can you tell us whether or not that Utica results that have come out recently have changed people's perspective on signing up long-term contracts?  Has there been a hesitancy then we know that there's been liquids there for a while for people to sign up for contracts? Does that change anything? No I don't think so.
I think the bigger issue of people signing up is the general economic uncertainty.
And probably there's no doubt you throw in a little bit of Utica you throw in a little bit of our concerns about Pennsylvania you throw in the fact that we've created a short-term band-aid if you will from pipeline spec perspective or gas quality spec perspective.
And that's probably created a little bit of a delay.
But that's a short-term issue Becca.
I think from a longer-term perspective there is no other logical solution than a pipeline to the Gulf and I think the market's recognizing that.
It's just the timing in which that's going to happen.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Payne.
LLC</strong> Greg quick question.
What's your -- what do you think the timing on Kitimat is going to look like in terms of that facility potentially getting up and running? I think it's mid-decade as I said they've got to get customers they've got to get an export license they got to get the okay to build a facility and then get on the pipes.
So I don't say you can't do it before mid-decade.
Although sometimes things go more rapidly but that would be my view.
I mean that's only 3 or 4 years or 4 years away Ross.
I don't think that's overly aggressive.
And I think that the producers are being very thoughtful about how to do this and you got many parties involved now from Petronas to the shales of the world and of course the Incanas and Apaches they've all announced possibility.
So I think they're being thoughtful making sure that they build this right build it to the right size and sure are going to take customer risk.
On the opposite side things like the unfortunate situation in Japan put a greater intensity on customers end-user customers of this gas also want to move faster so maybe that helps.
But I'm still thinking mid-decade.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And in terms of pricing for LNG off at West Coast is that going to be highly correlated to crude in your opinion? Or is that the correlation breaking down somewhat? No it's still there.
I think that's the consideration you have to be able to and this would be the producers you have to be able to sign long-term contracts and equivalent crude price that makes the transportation impact negated if you will.
So you're probably still looking at I don't know what their economics are but you're probably still looking -- you need long term contracts equivalent to $90 000 oil from an international perspective.
LLC</strong> And also Greg any thoughts on and I know you kind of have prodded a little bit on this earlier but in terms of the COP's midstream.
Any additional thoughts you might have on whether it goes upstream or downstream within that spend? No.
As I said I think that's probably a better  question for them.
Either way where it goes I think we'll look forward to continue working with Conoco Phillips if they decide to do that which I've said I would expect that that would be the case.
But I think that's a question from Mr.
Mobba [ph].
Your next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan.
It's Faisel from Citi.
On your TETCO system or for that matter your entire pipeline systems.
I guess with the 55 gigawatts of gas price generation that you guys serve how much of that capacity is under a long-term fixed contracts versus interruptible transportation agreement? Only about 10% in the Northeast is under long term contracts.
In the southeast it's closer to 50% I think.
Okay got you.
So what happens now if this utilization for gas regeneration kind of continues to ramp up? What are the conversations been like with your customers in terms of signing up for firm capacity? Well it's a lot more constructive because obviously if you're a producer and you get called upon you have to have availability of gas.
And as I think you will have seen how it's been in New York we've seen all-time peaks.
Folks are worried they're going to be cut short.
So the issue is one of signing up longer-term contracts and/or storage and I think storage is equally guys.
And that's maybe more common about the merchant players Faisel.
On the utilities side I think it's much more of "Look this is a flow through cost from a utility perspective.
There's no reason to take the chance that you haven't got capacity.
And as such what can we do to make sure that we've got longer-term capacity?" This is a big market I don't want to overestimate the benefits that any pipeline can get cause there's always some capacity that's already there but it's mainly more about locking in longer-term contracts that really protects your base and then adding some additional incremental value through storage which we think we've got an advantage off given our storage facilities along our pipelines serving those gas generators.
But how long do you think it would take for these contracts some of these interruptible contracts to kind of hider into longer-term fixed-term sort of agreements? Is it still far away? Are we or do we see some sort of turn in the near future? Well I mean in the Southeast they give it you direct examples.
I think right now I mean the Arkansas the Hot Spring that's an example of a merchant if you will KGen having us build the Lateral to them and obviously that's a long-term contract.
And then utility TVA building a very large lateral so that's happening now.
But I think this is 5 to 10 year type of process which is why I said a little further out this is the issue.
And I don't think that's going to change.
I think it's -- if you look at all the forecast in the last half of the decade power demand your gas utilization for power really doubled.
So if it was 1% or 2% kind of growth you're going to see 2% 4% type of growth.
And that's where we going to see things really start to kick in because as I said neither one of those parties wants to be short capacity.
And I think the regulators are starting to see this as well.
So I see us picking up some of these laterals that we've got now but from a longer-term perspective it's 5 years and beyond that this becomes really accelerated.
Okay.
And just going back to the question that I think Carl has asked before.
I think he was trying to figure out the contribution from Empress in the quarter.
Do you guys have that?  Or what's the EBIT contribution from Empress in the quarter? Yes we do have it for you.
Yes.
For the quarter the contribution was $20 million and for year-to-date it's $62 million.
So down quite a bit from the first quarter to the second quarter? Yes but that's what -- I think the bigger point Faisel is we've earned all plus what we thought in the entire year in the first 6 months.
You may remember we've budgeted $56 million.
Yes.
Ok great.
And then last question on your Maritimes in Northeast system have you seen a steady flow of gas from kind of the Canaport facility into your eminence your budge in the Northeast system.
Yes.
Actually I haven't seen the summer numbers but the winter throughout the year those winter numbers remained very steady.
I think they're in the kind in the 300 a day range.
Good summer flows on 12-2.
I just don't have those numbers to give you but obviously given the heat and some of the backlog that we've talked about of infrastructure bottlenecks in the Northeast you continue to see good flow on air times which people have talked about.
Not much in the way of LNG coming in.
Well I think that's true relative to what we thought say in '07 Faisel.
But in places like Canaport youre continuing to see those facilities be used nicely.
Operator we're on our hour.
We have time for one more question please.
Your final question comes from the line of Andrew Gundlach.
A couple of quick follow-ups to questions that have been asked.
On the Southern Hills is the 35% to 50% third party volumes been either -- have verbally contracted in some way or you're just confident you can get them.
We're just confident we get them.
And would -- does Overland Pass then become the key pipeline that takes the NGLs from which I guess would be the Niobrara volumes into Southern Hills is that the way to think about it? In the Conway and then down? That's correct.
Yes.
Of course we've just built the Wattenberg pipeline that's going to feed it as well.
Okay.
So it's Wattenberg and Overland basically right? Yes.
I think that's a good way to look at it.
Okay.
And the returns you mentioned $750 million to $850 in the billion range for Sandhills.
How do you think about the returns for these 2 projects? On an undelevered basis? Yes.
I think of them more from a rocky perspective more of as a fee-based pipeline type of return as opposed to a processing return.
So you're more kind of a 10% type of returns 10% to 12% right type returns versus that 15% or 20% type returns we see across the rest of the DCP business.
I see.
And that's because...
So you're not taking the commodity risk it's largely fee-based.
Well I guess I was thinking from a slightly different angle but maybe you answered the question earlier.
Well do you think the combination of an increase in Sterling which ONEOK has announced and this pipeline is enough to in effect eliminate that basis so that basis differential such that nobody will earn that call it $0.50 and $0.25 that's being earned today is that how you think? And therefore it's fee-based is that in effect what you're saying? No that's not what I'm saying.
In fact I don't think those to -- well first of all there's timing differences.
I think we'll have ours built before the new Sterling pipeline just given we've already got plant in the ground.
But what I -- and I think what you're seeing in the Gulf course -- I mean the Gulf Coast region think about the announced increases by the various players as I said the Dows and others and the amount of incremental potential incremental NGL demand that they're going to put on.
I'm not sure this is enough and so we'll have to see where it goes from here.
But I think there is more than enough volume and capacity therefore going to be needed on pipelines and producers are still going to be able to achieve that basis differential.
Now whether some of it erodes I mean you'd expect some of it but I have no doubt that you're going to see an upside from producers from a long-term perspective between Conveiw [Conway] and Mont Belvieu.
But so who will earn that basis differential if it's fee-based? Well we'll get some of them.
What I'm saying is there's a difference in our processing business where you're taking your cut if you will your in-kind we don't get all of that on the pipeline.
We'll be able to attract some of that benefit and obviously our own volumes but a lot of that's going to go back to the producer.
I understand.
And encouraging that you're spending so much money at DCP.
One last question on Conoco.
This follows up on Ted's earlier question.
Can you expand a little bit on how the ROFR actually works with Conoco; and #2 assuming that it would be up for sale and you're the obvious buyer for it given your $10 billion of opportunities that might require equity.
Am I incorrect in thinking about it in that way? Or better question is how do you finance it if we should have it come up.
Well it all that depends on price that depends on how plan to structure the thing.
Look if you're thinking that DCP is worth $20 billion then obviously that would be a major acquisition that's a different part of the world right? If you think DCP's worth a $1 billion then I don't know why you would need equity.
So that's a question I can't answer.
With respect to -- I do think DCP is definitely undervalued in the current Spectra stock and Conoco for that matter.
But with respect to the ROFR I mean if they sold it outright then it works like any other ROFR we'd have a right of first refusal on a bona fide bid that they would get in.
But as I said you have to speak to them whether that's their intention but I think they like the partnership I know we like the partnership and the entity would be -- DCP would be a bigger proportion of their whether upstream or downstream and so I'm not sure why they'd want to go down that trail.
Operator that's all the time we have this morning.
Okay do you have any closing remarks? I'd just like to thank everyone for joining us today.
As always if you have any additional questions feel free to call Roni Cappadonna or me.
And with that we'll close the call.
This concludes today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning.
My name is April and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Spectra Earnings Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that today's call is being recorded.
Thank you.
Mr.
John Arensdorf you may begin your conference.
Thank you April and good morning everyone welcome to Spectra Energy's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Review.
Again thanks for joining us today.
Leading today's discussion will be Greg Ebel our President and CEO and Pat Reddy our Chief Financial Officer.
Both Greg and Pat will discuss our quarterly results and provide more color around our strategic plans to enhance the value Spectra Energy delivers to its shareholders.
We'll then open the lines for your questions.
But before we begin let me take a moment to remind you that some of the things we will discuss today concern future company performance and include forward-looking statements within the meanings of the securities laws.
Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statement.
And you should refer to the additional information contained in Spectra Energy's Form 10-K and in our other SEC filings concerning factors that could cause these results to be different from those contemplated in today's discussion.
In addition today's discussion includes certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC Reg E.
And a reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available on our investor relations website at spectraenergy.com with that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks a lot John and good morning everybody.
As you've seen from our earnings release Spectra Energy delivered ongoing results of $247 million or $0.38 per share.
We continue to deliver value-creating results.
We exceeded last year's EPS by 23% well ahead of our expectations year-to-date.
All of our businesses continue to perform well and we're growing our earnings from projects placed into service at attractive rates of return.
We're realizing the upside of higher NGL prices which as you know is a real driver of return at our field services business.
We sell NGL prices 43% higher in the third quarter 2010 and 24% higher than our original assumptions.
And as expected we started to see a pickup in volumes across DCP as we've moved through the year.
Incremental Eagle Ford volumes approached 200 million cubic feet per day in Q3.
At DCP's new born plant in the DJ Basin which came on earlier this year we'd initially expected this to take 2 to 4 years to reach full capacity but it is indeed now at full volume.
We're even seeing growth accelerate in the Mid-continent something we haven't seen in years.
This ramp-up in volumes bodes well for DCP's further expansion plans which are numerous.
With less than 60 days left in the year a good third quarter behind us and the fourth quarter typically strong for us.
We feel very positive that we'll exceed our $1.65 earnings target.
That confidence and our visibility on the 2012 earnings led us to a decision to increase our dividend now rather than at year-end.
So as our $0.08 annual dividend increased we've delivered twice the level of dividend growth expected and we delivered it sooner than expected.
Last week's dividend increase underscores the soundness and ongoing success of the business plan we've been pursuing and will continue to pursue and execute.
And I think it attests to the fact that we're delivering total shareholder return by consistently providing both earnings and dividend growth.
The strong cash generation that we've been experiencing illustrates how we're monetizing our strategy for the benefit of investors.
This allows us to us do several things: execute on our $1 billion plus annual expansion CapEx plan and fund $700 million in maintenance capital all without accessing volatile equity markets.
It also allows us to maintain and strengthen our investment grade balance sheet as seen through the reduction of our debt to capitalization ratio by 600 basis points since 2009.
And of course it allows us the opportunity to continue growing our dividend by at least $0.08 a year during the 2012 to 2014 forecast period.
These 3 actions enable us to produce the level of reliable yield investors seek without the equity dilution risk of other investment choices.
As investors think about Spectra Energy I'm sure it's not lost on them that they're able to achieve growth in cash distribution by our dividend at a rate better than the Alerian index average and at a payout ratio far below the entities in that index.
Equally important to investors should be the fact that our dividend today and in the future is more than funded by our fee-based earnings.
Again allowing investors to be confident in achieving returns with relatively lower risk.
Let's take a look at some of the projects supporting our confidence and the expected earnings and dividend growth.
Spectra Energy enjoys a unique advantage of an exceptional strategically positioned asset base and our footprint connects diverse natural gas supplies in the U.S.
and Canada including North America's developing shale basins to major demand centers in the east the southeastern U.S.
the Pacific Northwest and Ontario.
We're further expanding our footprint by adding several new projects this year and I won't go over this map in detail but rather highlight a few of the key 2011 projects.
The Northeast Tennessee or NET project went into service this quarter.
NET is an expansion of our East Tennessee system to serve a new TVA power plant.
I think it's a great example of some of the power conversion opportunities that we're ideally suited to serve.
TEMAX / TIME III also went into service during the quarter.
You'll recall that we began receiving full revenue from TEMAX / TIME III in November of 2010.
The first phase of our Dawson Processing Plant which will handle gas from British Columbia's Montney region is scheduled to come into service by year-end.
Other projects that have come into service this year include the Bissette pipeline Gulfstream Phase V Moss Bluff IV and the Hot Spring Lateral.
We told you that we'd deliver $185 million in incremental EBIT this year from our expansion program and we will.
We're pleased with the earnings growth that will be generated by our 2011 projects and we also have a number of significant projects on the horizon to continue that good trend.
Our New Jersey-New York project is proceeding as planned for an expected in-service date of late 2013.
We're well in track to complete the Fort Nelson processing facility by mid-2012 further securing Spectra Energy's leading position in that basin.
And you'll recall our Fort Nelson contract is now underpinned by long-term fixed fee take or pay contracts.
In addition the Progress Energy Resources agreement announced just a couple of weeks ago further bolsters our enviable position in the Montney.
With this contract and further execution of our North Montney expansion pipeline we will deploy an additional $200 million in the Northeastern British Columbia at attractive returns.
We also have a lot of activity underway at DCP Midstream which saw a funds expansion through its own cash generation capabilities and strong balance sheet.
Said another way the DCP project I'm about to speak to are incremental to the $1 billion plus that we will invest annually in Spectra Energy's other business lines.
DCP Midstream enjoys a formidable presence in regions with growing gas and liquids production and they're leveraging that footprint to invest in strategic opportunities.
DCP Midstream is currently executing on approximately $4 billion in projects over the next several years quite a dramatic jump from where we were just a few years ago.
DCP Midstream's 2 big fee-based pipeline projects are well on track and are now transitioning into the execution phase.
Both of these projects will help release the value of NGLs tracking capacity constrained environment by de-bottlenecking key transportation corridors and ultimately allowing these liquids to reach the premium priced Mont Belvieu market.
Since DCP's owned or controlled volumes anchor these 2 projects we expect to benefit even further.
The Sandhills project offers a significant NGL transportation solution for DCP its customers and third-party producers.
Sandhills is scheduled to come online in 2 phases the Eagle Ford portion will become operational in the second half of 2012 to accommodate the growing Eagle Ford volumes and further extension into Mont Belvieu and the Permian connection will occur in mid 2013.
Southern Hills is our second large NGL pipeline project at DCP.
And you'll recall that this project offers valuable NGL transportation service from Conway in the Mid-continent to Mont Belvieu and we expect to complete that project in mid 2013.
Now let's turn to some other opportunities on the horizon for post DCP Midstream and Spectra Energy as a whole.
We're thinking well beyond 2012 so a quick update on some of the positive developments that we're pursuing that gives us confidence in our ability to generate earnings and dividend growth for years to come.
There's a second round of development to come in the Horn River and Montney basins and we see additional expansion opportunities in British Columbia well into the future.
There's a great window of opportunity for infrastructure supporting LNG exports.
In October Canada's National Energy Board granted Kitimat LNG a 20-year export license to ship LNG from Canada to international markets which presents an outstanding opportunity for Canadian natural gas and opens doors to Asian-Pacific markets.
Spectra Energy has an existing integrated pipeline in gathering processing networks that's ideally situated and expandable to connect growing supply to virtually any LNG development that's completed on the West Coast of Canada.
In fact we're the only major interprovincial pipeline in British Columbia that can make that claim.
In the U.S.
the northeast continues to experience natural gas demand growth and attract investment.
Spectra Energy is in the midst of that northeast hub and we're able to build the infrastructure needed to deliver supplies from both the Marcellus and Utica Shale to the end market.
We recently completed our annual contract renewal process for Texas Eastern in Algonquin resulting in a 96% renewal at historic rates.
Not only does this underline the existing value of these pipes it also bodes well for the incremental growth opportunities to serve these markets.
We see tremendous upside associated with the conversion of coal and oil-fired power generation to natural gas particularly in the Southeast U.S.
and Florida markets.
Much of the conversion is expected to come in the latter part of the decade and again Spectra Energy is well-situated to win a good share of that.
And finally DCP faces its latest significant growth opportunity.
In the DJ and Niobrara basin the Permian Eagle Ford Mid-continent including the Mississippi line granite wash in Whitford Canada.
In addition to DCP's $4 billion of expansion currently in execution these incremental opportunities could exceed $2 billion through 2014.
So you can see Spectra Energy enjoyed a positive third quarter.
We continue to advance an ambitious capital expansion plan that supports not only future earnings cash flow but also dividend growth.
And with that let me turn things over to Pat who will walk us through the numbers before we take your questions Well thank you Greg.
And good morning.
As we announced earlier today Spectra Energy reported third quarter 2011 ongoing earnings of $247 million compared with $201 million in the third quarter of 2010.
Our earnings this quarter surpassed our expectations and equally important our year-to-date performance reflects solid progress on our capital expansion plans.
As Greg mentioned our core fee-based businesses performed in line with our expectations and we're continuing to realize earnings growth from expansion projects placed into service.
Let's look now at EBITDA which reflects the strong cash generation capacity of our business with every segment delivering solid results.
Ongoing EBITDA for the quarter was $785 million compared with $695 million in the third quarter of 2010 an increase of 13% quarter-on-quarter and year-over-year.
Now we'll take a look at our performance by business segment beginning with U.S.
Transmission.
U.S.
Transmission reported third quarter EBIT of $235 million compared with $231 million in the third quarter of 2010.
As anticipated the segment benefited from northeast expansion projects placed into service during the fourth quarter of last year primarily TEMAX / TIME III and Algonquin East to West.
These benefits were mostly offset by higher operating costs including the expensing of development costs associated with the Marcellus ethane pipeline system.
Now let's turn to our distribution operations.
Distribution reported third quarter EBIT of $50 million compared with $63 million last year.
This decrease is mainly due to higher operating costs including higher employee benefit costs which were partially offset by a stronger Canadian dollar.
Let's turn now to Western Canada transmission and processing which reported third quarter EBIT of $119 million compared with $90 million in 2010.
The segment benefited from improved results in the base gathering and processing business primarily driven by higher contracted volumes from expansions in the Horn River and higher earnings at the Empress natural gas liquids processing business due primarily to higher sales prices.
The segment also benefited from the effect of a stronger Canadian dollar.
The substantial increase we're seeing in contracted volumes from unconventional production in Western Canada more than offsets volume declines from conventional basins and underscores the need for new infrastructure development.
Our Field Services segment which represents Spectra's Energy's 50% interest in DCP Midstream reported third quarter EBIT of $134 million compared with $70 million in 2010.
In the third quarter of 2011 NGL prices averaged $0.37 higher than in the 2010 quarter.
NYMEX natural gas averaged about $0.20 less than last year and crude oil averaged about $14 higher than in 2010.
In October Spectra Energy received $125 million of cash distributions from DCP Midstream associated with the third quarter bringing distributions to $395 million this year well beyond the $350 million we had expected.
Now let me turn to additional items for the quarter.
Our Others segment reflected ongoing net cost of $23 million in the third quarter of 2011 compared with $16 million in 2010.
The stronger Canadian dollar increased third quarter 2011 net income by $5 million compared with the third quarter of last year.
Interest expense during the quarter was $157 million compared to $159 million in last year's third quarter.
Third quarter 2011 income tax expense from continuing operations of $108 million compared with $69 million reported last year.
The increase resulted from higher earnings as well as a higher effective tax rate.
The reported effective tax rate was 28% in the third quarter 2011 compared with 24% last year which include the benefits of favorable tax settlements in that period.
At the end of the quarter our debt to total capitalization ratio stood at 56%.
We are funding our ongoing CapEx program through a combination of internally generated funds and debt while strengthening our current investment grade balance sheet.
With the benefit of bonus depreciation we will fund more than 50% of our expansion CapEx with internally generated funds this year.
At the quarter's close we had total capacity under our credit facilities of $2.8 billion and available liquidity of about $1.8 billion.
And on October 18 we renegotiated our credit facilities at both Spectra Energy Capital and Spectra Energy Partners for new 5-year terms ensuring continuing liquidity as we execute on our growth CapEx plans and increasing total capacity to about $3 billion.
Last week we issued debt at West Coast at attractive rates.
We placed $150 million of 10-year debt to 3.88% and $150 million of 30-year debt at 4.79%.
These are the lowest 10 and 30-year coupons in Spectra Energy's total debt portfolio.
So overall a good quarter with solid results from all of our business segments.
We're finalizing our 2012 plan which we'll review with you in January.
In closing we've made good progress on our capital expansion plans our core businesses delivered solid performance and we captured the upside of higher commodity prices at DCP Midstream.
We're advancing on the 2 fronts of the investor's value: earnings and dividend growth.
We announced an $0.08 dividend increase during the quarter confirming once again our confidence in achieving significant balanced total shareholder returns.
We believe that's what investors are looking for and counting on and we're delivering on that pledge.
So with that Greg and I will be happy to answer any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Faisel Khan.
Research Division</strong> It's Faisel from Citi.
On your prepared comments you talked about the 96% renewal rate on the 2 pipelines going to the northeast.
Did that include also kind of long-haul capacity as well? Is the long-haul capacity market into the Northeast still pretty strong? Yes absolutely that's everything that was up for renewal this year.
In fact that's an improvement from last year.
I think it was about 93% so even a better renewal rate this year and I think it just underlines the value of those long-haul pipelines and the increments in between as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then at Kitimat obviously there's a -- the project continues to ramp up there in terms of the feed studies.
What is your estimate in terms of the timing and when do you have to start working on your end of the equation to make sure that those supplies actually reach that facility? Yes I -- a couple of things.
One I think obviously the processing capacity we put in place both last year end that will come in to service both at Dawson end of this year and then Fort Nelson the middle of next year.
I mean that ensures that we've got that and the expansion of the pipeline the header system already in place.
So I think we're ready to go from that perspective.
The issue is we're kind of last in the chain in terms of how we'll hook up with producers.
For example the producers received the NEB approvals for export but they've got to go out and get customers obviously foreign customers to backstop that production and then they would come to us in terms of getting pipeline capacity.
So I still think sometime over the next 12 18 months is when that will all shape up.
Obviously we're in touch with all of the various players Faisel.
As you know there's probably -- either publicly or privately half a dozen projects that they're all [indiscernible] at Kitimat.
Research Division</strong> Sure and then what do you have to do to the pipeline to actually -- to get to be able to transport all those volumes to the producers at Kitimat? Well we have to build it.
Research Division</strong> It's an expansion I think you already have the line partially in place? Well we do we're the only folks that -- we have a pipeline that would go down north or south from Northeast British Columbia down to the Washington State border.
But what you got to do is then go off from either call it Station 4 or Summit Lake area and then build the pipeline west.
So that's the part that doesn't exist which obviously is a very large build but a pretty exciting one too.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then last question for me and I'll jump back in the queue.
The $4 billion in projects you talked about DCP.
Do you think you'll still be able to generate the same sort of cash distribution from DCP are you kind of building out those projects? Absolutely.
See one of the advantages in I think what we're trying to do and we've been able to do it so far and there's no reason why we wouldn't expect is that we've got the MLP that can help fund the equity that may be needed at DCP during these build-outs.
Either through additional drop downs at the DPM or through sharing of some of the projects which -- and obviously they've got their own balance sheet to raise the debt.
All of which allows both Spectra and the new downstream business at Conoco to continue receiving the type of dividends we have to date.
And I would point out that the new downstream company at Conoco is even more aligned than Conoco in terms of the importance of those dividends.
So I think you've got good discipline on both owners.
A and b you've got the good facility in place through DPM to help finance the equity component.
And your next question comes from the line of Monroe Helm.
Research Division</strong> I just wonder if you could kind of share the board's thoughts on raising the dividend at this kind of rate and the commitment to continue to raise it to $0.08 a year to the next few years.
Is that an indication that you think the earnings growth rate is going to pickup here or do you think you need to pay a more competitive dividend given the growth rates for some of the other stocks that you compete against in the marketplace? Monroe when we have launched we said we wanted to pay between kind of 60% 65% and given the earnings growth in the last several years which has just exceeded what we had expected in the street we've actually never got up to that rate.
So with that and the good visibility going forward that was really the driver.
So we can easily go and pay and put -- see good visibility to see our way to pay at least $0.08 a year through 2014.
On a commodity neutral basis that still assumes that we're growing at that call it 7% to 9% EPS growth.
So it's really the success we've had in the last few years to be able to move that up.
And obviously I'm not so sure from what other investors are doing or from what other companies are doing as some folks that would be our peers haven't had the type of dividend or even dividends at all.
I think it's more just -- investors overall are valuing yield as well and we think we can deliver both.
So I think it's just more of a balanced approached and as I said a monetization on the strategy that we've had to date and just being able to step forward.
If we didn't think we had good visibility on the growth we probably wouldn't be on that stage but it looks very good from our perspective.
And your next question comes from the line of Carl Kirst.
Just a couple of questions actually both of which on Canada here.
The first more from a micro standpoint.
Just noticed that in both distribution which you touched on the higher O&amp;M we also look like we had a bit of a spike in O&amp;M in Western Canada as well and it was sort of those 2 areas that were the only thing that we saw that we weren't expecting and I just want to get a better sense of color.
Is this embedded the higher employee expenses? Or is this somehow temporary we might see a pullback from that? Just was hoping to get a bit more color there.
Carl this is Pat.
We'll talk about each of the 2 business units.
And to your point it's a little bit of both.
But I wanted to just say at the outset that the higher O&amp;M was certainly anticipated in the EBIT guidance that we gave and for example for distribution as we talk about exceeding our $1.65 this year.
We're looking for them to come in a little better than the EBIT guidance that we gave earlier in the year.
So thinking about distribution of the $16 million increase year-over-year about $11 million of that is higher anticipated employee benefits cost and about $6 million is FX.
Looking at Western Canada.
As you know they've had a lot of growth in the business.
There's a timing piece related to higher maintenance of about $8 million FX of about $8 million some taxes that vary from year-to-year related to carbon of about $5 million.
Employee benefits are only $3 million of that so primarily related to operations and FX.
But again Western Canada as you see year-to-date and for the quarter substantially ahead of our EBIT projections.
And then just a second question if I could.
Circling back to Faisel's and with respect to Kitimat and how ultimately the pipeline progresses.
The purchase last week of PNG and the fact that Apache and EOG have got this sort of Pacific Trails right of way I guess in their back pocket.
How do you expect I guess this to move forward as far as a potential pipeline is it going to be basically just all the infrastructure providers putting in a bid for this pipeline to Kitimat or how should we think about this progressing? Yes I think you should think it's the same as any other major producing area and new project.
I expect the producers to very much look for competitive bids.
Of which again with our header system already there we feel very good about what we can provide on a full-service basis to those producers.
With respect to the commentary on the purchase of PNG I don't think it changes anything.
As you know they had already sold the pipeline aspect of that to the joint venture.
So whoever bought that it's just an issue of I guess picking up the opportunity to operate it.
But secondly and perhaps more importantly that's not a straight right away.
That right away veers up north when you really want it to just be going straight out west to Kitimat which is something that we're looking at.
So bottom line I expect it to be competitive.
I expect West Coast Energy's assets that we hold in Spectra to be a competitive advantage vis--vis processing and pipelines and I don't think that the sale of PNG really changes that competitive dynamics.
And your next question comes from the line of Ted Durbin.
Research Division</strong> Just coming back to the dividend raise here.
You'd said I think in guidance for this year that you were looking for 7% to 9% EPS growth through 2013.
You're now rolling forward to '14.
Are you feeling comfortable that the EPS growth is still in that ballpark? And I think that was under a flat commodity price assumption has that changed at all there? Yes no I mean you've got some pluses and minuses along the way but we still feel comfortable in that range Ted.
Again our good fortune has been that we've seen growth rates much higher than that because we benefit from the commodity as well.
But I think that 7% to 9% type range is the way to look at things through 2014 as you know sometimes it's a little bit lumpy but on average that's what you should get.
And hence that what's gives us again that confidence to be able to raise the dividend at least $0.08 a year through that time period.
Research Division</strong> And then if you can just talk about where you are on contracting on the Sandhills pipeline.
Have you actually started construction? Are you kind of everything sanctioned you're ready to go and what your sort of producer interest is? What kind of term you're looking for for contracts and maybe just what kind of returns or EBITDA multiples you're looking for as well? Yes I think we're 50% to 70% already contracted and -- well 50% to 70% is actually DCP's volumes that underwrite that.
So we've got additional contracts on top of that.
I think we're looking for typical terms that you'd expect from a fixed fee pipeline.
We are in execution mode we are doing it at a couple of phases as you know and haven't run into any of the similar challenges that you might see on the interstate pipeline for example.
So we feel good about that.
Obviously both Conoco and Spectra are providing a lot of support to DCP in terms of project management.
This is a big project one that DCP has done historically.
And I think that's going to serve us well on both fronts.
So full steam ahead on both of that and in the Southern Hills project.
Research Division</strong> Great and then if I can just one more.
You mentioned challenges on interstate and that you got the draft EIS on New Jersey and New York.
I'm wondering if you're seeing anything there that would cause -- whether it's reroutes or changes in the design that might impact the cost there? I think importantly that draft the environmental impact statement said that there were very few concerns and very few impacts.
And then it did occur it could be easily mitigated.
And we spent a long time leading up to that draft environmental impact statement making some adjustments to routes etc.
and accommodations.
So I think we've done what we need to do to take into account the various concerns.
Obviously we're never going to satisfy everybody any time you build a pipeline in a congested area.
But I think we're good to go in terms of going forward and the FERC will take -- the comment period closed on Monday Ted.
And so I would expect the FERC to diligently move forward.
We're trying to get a final environmental impact statement out early in the New Year and after all there's 5 200 jobs here and probably $200 million to $400 million a year in economic and energy benefits for the folks in New Jersey and New York.
So full steam ahead and get it in service at the end of 2013.
And your next question comes from the line of Craig Shere.
Inc.</strong> I had a quick question about the -- kind of picking up on Carl's question on O&amp;M but more on the U.S.
pipes.
Was there much that was occurring in the third quarter beyond the MEPS development cost and were those in-period costs or write off of everything to date? The write off in the quarter was -- for the quarter and it was a small write off earlier in the year but in total less than $10 million so fairly modest overall.
But some of the costs that we incurred in the quarter would be ongoing such as pipeline integrity due to more in-line pipe inspections.
But that is only about $4 million of the $19 million in total.
So again it's anticipated and not something that is a significant bump on an ongoing basis.
And Craig just a little clarification on the MEPS issue that's everything that -- we've written off the entire cost to date on that front.
And obviously you've seen -- Enterprise made an announcement on their projects that doesn't look like there's a lot of customer support at this time to move forward with that project so I wouldn't anticipate any further cost.
Inc.</strong> Understood.
And it looks good on the contract renewals for the long haul pipes.
I mean that's nice to hear.
Are you all -- and maybe they're just not in the market because you're out a couple of years on your contracts but what are you all seeing in terms of the gas storage side on contract renewals? Yes we always have some storage coming up and yes there's definite softness there.
I think we're seeing the same type of things others are in terms of -- you might see anywhere from 15% to 30% kind of declines in the rates that they're getting.
But as you say we've got a portfolio that goes out a few years.
So obviously that's not that going to impact you all in one year.
Storage represents about 10% of our EBIT going forward.
So obviously that's something that we saw coming at us this year from that perspective.
But I think as the market rebalances as gas power generation comes in you're going to see the need for that storage.
Some of those LNG starts being built you can see need for storage and then you'll see kind of mid-decade some of those storage margins coming back which fortunately would be about the time we bring on our Bobcat Storage facility.
Inc.</strong> So is it still full steam ahead with the plans on the Bobcat build-out or are we kind of waiting for market indications before we can have -- firmly commit this on the list? No we're still building that out.
I think we got one cavern that could kind of move a little bit.
But we're in the leaching process for the current cavern and we're still moving ahead.
We want to be there when that market comes back '14 '15 timeframe.
And your next question comes from the line of Steven Wayne [ph].
Just following up on the questions on the long haul for Texas Eastern.
Can you just indicate on the renewals how long those contracts are going for now? Well they just -- remember they just roll each year...
So this is what? this is year by year? Yes that's what happens.
You got the original contracts and then you just roll them each year and that's been going on for -- once the original contract runs out their one-year agreement.
Okay.
I didn't know you were extending them even further than one year.
On the earnings target growth rate you said 7% to 9% through '14 now.
But I guess since the last time you guys originally gave the guidance through '13 at least.
The CapEx plan is expanding exponentially that it's greater than $1 billion a year plus you have all the DCP growth.
Should we think that now the earnings growth rate could actually be higher toward the higher end of that target range that you have? Well I wouldn't go there quite yet.
I mean my view is 7% to 9% is the number there it was -- we've always said we'll be around $1 billion in excess of $1 billion.
One year you might -- like this year fortunate enough Steven you're right the number's bigger than $1 billion.
It's pushing $1.3 billion $1.4 billion in terms of expansion capital.
But I'm comfortable of that 7% to 9% rate.
We'll see how the DCP stuff comes in.
As you know a lot of that is due to go into service kind of '13 timeframe.
So those will have a bigger impact if you will the '13 through '16 timeframe as will things like the New York project.
The big earnings in New York really don't come in until 2014.
And Steven one of the questions came up earlier that Greg touched on and that is that we like the mix that we're getting from these expansions.
So when you think about Sandhills and Southern Hills for DCP those are fee-based projects with about $1 billion investment in each one with mid to high teen returns.
So that we -- if we think about paying our dividend just out of the fee based portion of our earnings we need to think about that contributing to our ability to increase the dividend.
And just a reminder when you guys talk about the growth rate you're using the 165 base for this year? Yes that's correct.
Okay and the last question by have is on Kitimat.
We have one project with the Encana and the group.
But then we saw Shell and you talked about 6 projects total.
I'm just curious how many of these terminals do you think that will actually go and get done out of the area? Well history is always a pretty good teacher and you will recall Steven that we probably had 20 if not more projects on LNG import projects along the East Coast and in the Gulf of Mexico on what did we do? 6.
So that's a 4:1 hit ratio kind of thing.
I would think you'd see the same type of situation here so that puts that 1 maybe 2.
And obviously that depends on the size.
Somebody goes to out to build a 2 BCF facility then I think that's going to be 1.
If you -- but could you support or could somebody go out and build call it 3 quarters of the B then you might have a couple.
But I think there's a couple of factors.
But I think it's fair to say that there won't be half a dozen.
But Greg your belief is that the gas that will be supplied for the LNG will be coming from the Horn and not from the Montney? I think they both -- I think that's -- and that's the nice thing about the Spectra systems where obviously producers who are located both in the Horn and the Montney they can make a call whether they want that gas to go east or whether they want that gas to go west and obviously they can use both our assets and the processing and pipeline side in the Montney which is south or in the horn River which is north.
We have a follow-up question from Monroe Helm.
Research Division</strong> Just on DCP's opportunities you said that they have identified another $1 billion of incremental expansion above and beyond the $4 billion that they targeted for 2011 2013.
Can you say how much of that may be driven by what's going on in the Eagle Ford Shale or there are going to be additional opportunities at Eagle Ford that are not in the expansion plans that you have identified so far? Yes there some addition that extra $2 billion that we're looking at.
Some of that would in the Eagle Ford.
But I think importantly what has happened by us announcing both Sandhills and Southern Hills is that it's really opened very different producer discussions because we can give them the opportunity not only to process the gas.
And as you know DCP produces twice as many barrels of liquids than any other producer in North America.
I think people forget that.
So obviously a huge system and with these pipelines now being able to close the gaps and be able to give people Mont Belvieu a pricing it's really opened up our opportunities.
So I think we have first mover advantage in places like the Mississippi line.
And obviously it's opened up discussions in places like the Granite Wash and at Woodford Canada.
So it's not just the Eagle Ford.
I think it's just opened up.
If you took that V if you will or Y of the pipes that we're building from Conway down to Belvieu and then the Permian into Belvieu anything within that zone now becomes a very attractive opportunity for DCP and a very attractive service offering for our customers.
Research Division</strong> Do you know offhand how much of the capacity in both these projects is going to taken by ConocoPhillips' own production? I don't offhand.
I know there's obviously a pretty big position that they have down in the Eagle Ford.
But what I can commit to you is that when we come out in early January we'll have with our plans for next year we'll have Tom there to give everybody a little bit more insight on some of the really great opportunities that we see there in the next couple of years.
[Operator Instructions] And you do have a follow-up from Faisel Khan.
Research Division</strong> What was the contribution in EBIT from Empress in the quarter? The contribution during the quarter was about $20 million and about $80 million year-to-date.
Research Division</strong> Okay and what was at the EBIT previous year that quarter? In the a quarter it was a little over $10 million closer to $12 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then just going back to I think Carl's question on some of the cost and I think Craig's question on the pipeline cost.
I just want to make it clear.
There is a $10 million you said maintenance cost in the distribution segment is that what you said? No we had higher benefit costs in the distribution segment of about $11 million and FX of about $6 million and that explains the total increase year-over-year for distribution.
Research Division</strong> So is that -- those employee benefit cost did they continue or are they kind of one-time in nature? It's really timing and when you compare year-over-year there was an item in last year's quarter that didn't repeat.
And so the third quarter as you know from an EBIT standpoint isn't the big quarter for distribution it's really fourth and first.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And on the transmission side.
What was the number again for the expensing of some of the development cost? The expensing for the development cost in the quarter was under $10 million closer to $5 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then last question for me.
In Encana I guess recently kind of discussed kind of the slowing down of some of their drilling activity in kind of that Horn River Montney area.
Any impact to you guys think to you guys in the near term? I know you're still bringing on more processing capacity in the area? No I wouldn't expect any impact Carl.
I mean -- or Faisal.
The issue as you know we set up long-term contracts so wouldn't expect any.
They had another plant that they were building.
I don't know if there's impact on that but for our plant they're fully contracted and frankly I fully expect them to be loaded with what Encana has already set up for production.
And you do have another follow-up from Monroe Helm.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up to the last comment where you gave us some numbers for Empress' contribution for the 9 months and 3 months for this year.
Do you have the comparable numbers from last year? For the quarter last year third quarter $12 million of EBIT and for year-to-date last year a little over $50 million compared to a little over $80 million year-to-date in '11.
You may recall that when we gave our outlook in January we had reduced the forecasted contribution from Empress down to about $50 million and even with much higher extraction premiums this year the frac spreads had just moved out we've been able to do better there than we anticipated back at the beginning of the year.
And there are no further question at this time.
Okay if there are no further questions we'll go ahead and end the call.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today.
And we'd like to remind you that on Tuesday of next week on November 8 we're going to be in Boston for breakfast and then in New York for lunch.
We hope that you'll be able to join us at one of those locations.
If you haven't already done so please let us know if you will be able to attend.
And if you can't join us in person I'd like to remind you that the New York luncheon will be webcast.
So we look forward to seeing you next week on Tuesday.
And as always if you have additional questions please feel free to call Roni Cappadonna or me.
Thanks.
Thank you for participating today.
This concludes today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning.
My name is Wade and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Spectra Energy Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that today's call is being recorded.
Thank you.
Mr.
John Arensdorf you may begin your conference.
Thanks Wade.
Good morning everyone.
I'm John Arensdorf Chief Communications Officer for Spectra Energy and I'd like to thank you for joining us today.
We were with many of you recently in New York providing an overview of our 2012 business and financial plans and we're pleased to share with you today our 2011 fourth quarter and year-end results.
Leading our discussion today will be Greg Ebel our President and CEO; and Pat Reddy our Chief Financial Officer.
Since we had an in-depth discussion with you just a few weeks ago we're going to move quickly through our presentation allowing plenty of time for your questions.
Greg will kick things off with an overview of 2011 then Pat will provide a more detailed look at our financial performance for the quarter and year.
And Greg will return to wrap things up and provide his perspective on 2012 and beyond.
As you know some of what we'll discuss today concerning future company performance will be forward-looking information within the meanings of the securities laws.
Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements and you should refer to the additional information contained in Spectra Energy's Form 10-K and other filings made with the SEC concerning factors that could cause these results to differ from those contemplated in today's discussion.
In addition today's discussion will include certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC Regulation G.
A reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available at the end of the package of information you have before you and on our website at spectraenergy.com.
With that let me now turn things over to Greg.
Thanks John.
And good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
As you know we released today our full year results for 2011 a year in which we continued our track record of delivering on our commitments to you and realized net income in doing so.
With respect to the fourth quarter I'm aware that the outcome was lower than some of you had estimated and while Pat will take you through the details I thought it'd be worthwhile to speak to some of the unusual items and unique timing of some of those items as context for the quarter.
In the quarter we booked a number of items that reduced income.
They were associated with one software amortization; two employee benefits; three acquisition-related settlements; four captive insurance claims; and five some tax adjustments.
In total these items weighed on earnings by about $0.03 a share.
Added to these were NGL curtailments and plant reliability challenges that lowered DCPs earnings by about $0.01 this year.
And then finally with the warm start to the winter we were able to do more plant maintenance work at U.S.
Transmission and Union Gas which increased O&amp;M costs at those business units.
Together these items resulted in a reduction of $0.04 to $0.05 per share and  represented an accumulation of relatively small items that either would not typically cluster in a single quarter or as in the case of NGL curtailments are short lived thanks to DCP's current investment in NGL pipelines and plant capacity.
To the extent that any of these items may occur again in 2012 they've been taken into account in our guidance to you.
So turning back now to the bigger picture and the overall year as I mentioned we finished the year with record net income.
We indicated that we expected to exceed our ongoing EPS target of $1.65 for the year and we did delivering earnings per share of $1.77.
In support of that achievement each of our business segments delivered nice EBIT increases for the year.
We're benefiting from changing market fundamentals that support our growing Gas Transmission business and our Gas Processing and Distribution business throughout North America.
As we look back on the year we saw a healthy pickup at DCP from favorable NGL pricing.
But as a result of the curtailments I've previously mentioned and the effects of winter storms that you'll recall early in 2011 as well as plant reliability challenges we didn't realize all of that pickup.
Fortunately the new infrastructure being built at DCP such as Southern Hills and Sand Hills will ensure that we do unlock our growing NGL volumes and reach premium pricing markets such as Mont Belvieu.
Despite that Q4 curtailment issues I mentioned DCP's year-end NGL production volumes were 6% above fourth quarter 2010 levels.
During the year U.S.
Transmission grew its ongoing EBIT by approximately 5% as it realized earnings from new projects brought into service.
U.S.
Transmission continues on a stable track.
While we have growth in both 2012 and 2013 EBIT in this business unit we expect the next significant growth in its EBIT to occur when we realize the full year benefits of our New Jersey - New York project in 2014.
In Western Canada in spite of higher extraction premiums our Empress NGL business experienced strong sales volumes relative to our initial expectations.
We've provided a healthy boost to Western Canadian Transmission &amp; Processing.
And despite a warm start to the 2011 2012 winter and a sluggish Ontario economy our gas utility Union Gas grew its EBIT by almost 4%.
The point of all of this is the power of Spectra Energy's entire portfolio allows us to perform consistently growing earnings and the dividend even in the face of various market cycles and operational scenarios.
Turning to the dividend during 2011 we increased it by about 8% and we have the confidence in our growth plans to commit to delivering annual dividend growth of at least $0.08 per year on an ongoing basis.
We invested more than $1 billion in capital expansion during the year and placed 6 projects in the service.
Successful execution of our CapEx plan allows us to continue to achieve aggregate returns on capital employed in excess of our targeted 10% to 12%.
In addition to the organic growth and expansions we executed on 2 strategic acquisitions during the year.
We acquired the Big Sandy Pipeline in Eastern Kentucky to our MLP Spectra Energy Partners and DCP Midstream acquired Southern Hills Pipeline targeting new NGL transportation capacity from the mid-Continent to the premium Gulf Coast market.
Our share of DCP cash distributions was about $400 million in 2011 exceeding our initial expectations by almost $50 million and we expect distributions to continue increasing as DCP grows its earnings.
In fact for 2012 we should receive distributions from DCP of $460 million 15% higher than in 2011.
And we committed to look forward positioning ourselves strategically leveraging our enviable asset position and seeking accretive capital investment such as recently announced TEAM 2014 open and next opportunities.
Overall we continue to have a balanced approach to serving our investors through both earnings and dividend growth and we have the flexibility to toggle between the 2 to ensure consistent level of total shareholder return through all market cycles.
With that I'll turn things over to Pat to provide detail for the quarter.
Well thank you Greg.
And good morning everyone.
It's a pleasure to be with you today to report on our fourth quarter results and overall 2011 performance.
As you've seen in our earnings release Spectra Energy announced ongoing fourth quarter earnings of $287 million or $0.44 per diluted share.
For the year we delivered record ongoing earnings of about $1.16 billion or $1.77 per share.
The annual results reflect solid performance from all of our businesses.
In particular we benefited from expansion projects placed into service higher commodity prices at DCP and a stronger Canadian dollar.
Let's take a look now at EBITDA.
For the year EBITDA increased by almost 9% from about $3 billion in 2010 to more than $3.3 billion in 2011.
And as you may recall from our Analyst Day last month our 2012 EBITDA is budgeted at $3.5 billion up another 6%.
So strong earnings and cash generation from our mix of businesses allows us to fund our sizable CapEx program with no need to issue equity while maintaining a solid BBB balance sheet.
Now we'll take a look at our performance by business segment beginning with U.S.
Transmission which reported ongoing fourth quarter EBIT of $226 million compared with $237 million in 2010.
The 2011 quarter reflects higher operating costs and as expected lower revenues at Ozark Gas Transmission.
These results were partially offset by incremental earnings from our expansion projects.
For the full year ongoing EBIT for U.S.
Transmission increased nearly 5% from $938 million in 2010 to $983 million in 2011.
Now let's turn to Distribution which reported ongoing fourth quarter EBIT of $120 million compared with $127 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
This decrease is primarily due to lower customer usage related to weather that was nearly 15% warmer than the prior year.
Year-end ongoing EBIT for Distribution increased almost 4% from $409 million in 2010 to $425 million in 2011.
Let's focus now on results that are Western Canada Transmission &amp; Processing business which reported ongoing fourth quarter 2011 EBIT of $137 million compared with $131 million in the fourth quarter 2010.
This segment benefited from improved results in the gathering and processing business driven primarily by higher earnings from expansions in the Horn River area of British Columbia.
These results were partially offset by lower earnings at the Empress NGL business attributable mainly to significantly higher cost of NGL extraction net of higher sales prices.
Year-end ongoing EBIT for Western Canada Transmission &amp; Processing was $510 million compared with $409 million in 2010 representing an increase of nearly 25%.
Now let me turn to our Field Services business which as you know represents Spectra Energy's 50% interest in DCP Midstream.
Field Services reported fourth quarter EBIT of $96 million compared with $108 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
The 2011 quarter results reflect the effects of plant higher operating costs short-term reliability issues and NGL curtailments primarily occurring in the Permian Basin.
We also recorded lower gains associated with the sale of common units by DPM.
These results more than offset the benefit seen from increased NGL prices and volume growth compared with the fourth quarter of 2010.
As Greg told you the curtailment issues encountered last year further underscore the critical need for DCP's Sand Hills Pipeline which will play a key role in opening up the flow of NGLs to premium Gulf Coast markets particularly from processing plants located in the Permian.
On average NGL prices were $0.14 per gallon higher this quarter compared with 2010.
NYMEX natural gas averaged $0.25 lower in 2011 and crude oil was $9 higher per barrel.
Year-end ongoing EBIT for Field Services was $449 million compared with $335 million in 2010 representing a 34% increase.
And as previously mentioned DCP Midstream paid distributions to us of $395 million for the year exceeding our target of $350 million.
Now let me turn to Other which is primarily comprised of our corporate governance costs and captive insurance and some additional items.
Other reported net costs of $28 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared with ongoing net cost of $16 million in 2010.
The unfavorable variance reflects higher captive insurance cost from miscellaneous loss events and other corporate expenses.
Year-end net cost for Other were $104 million compared with $62 million in 2010.
Higher self-insured insurance losses benefit costs and similar corporate expenses account for the variance.
Our ongoing annual run rate for corporate other costs should be in the neighborhood of $100 million and is reflected at that level in our 2012 earnings guidance.
Additional items affecting net income include: Interest expense for the quarter of $154 million which was unchanged from the fourth quarter of 2010 and fourth quarter 2011 ongoing income tax expense from continuing operations of $115 million compared to the $128 million in 2010.
As of December 31 2011 our debt to total capitalization ratio stood at 56%.
Going forward we expect to fund our CapEx program through a combination of internally generated funds and debt while maintaining strong investment grade coverage ratios.
As of December 31 we had total capacity under our credit facilities of $2.9 billion and available liquidity of about $1.9 billion.
In other words more than adequate to supplement our internally generated cash.
So that's an overview of our fourth quarter results now let's take a look at how we reconcile our 2011 actual performance to our 2012 plan.
As we look forward to 2012 let's begin with the actual 2011 ongoing net income of about $1.16 billion which supports our $1.77 earnings per share and compare that to our 2012 projected net income of about $1.24 billion or $1.90 per share.
You can see that the ongoing successful execution of our expansion program will be the largest single contributor to earnings growth with $125 million of incremental EBIT expected in 2012.
The split on each earnings will be about 60% from Western Canada and 40% from our U.S.
Transmission operations.
We also expect a significant contribution from DCP Midstream's expansion efforts and slightly higher commodity prices.
As we've mentioned previously we continue to see volume declines in the conventional areas of British Columbia as a result of low gas prices.
With lower contracted volumes in these areas Western Canada is expecting a negative $65 million earnings effect in 2012.
Also as expected storage margins continue to be soft resulting in a storage EBIT reduction of about $30 million with about 3/4 of that coming from U.S.
Transmission and 1/4 from Distribution.
Our plan calls for slightly higher interest expense primarily as a result of higher debt balances associated with funding our growth CapEx.
And of course the $30 million tax effect is a result of the earnings change as shown here.
One supplemental piece of information I'd like to add to the 2012 data we shared with you a few weeks ago in New York has to do with the Distribution of our quarterly earnings.
As you know while we don't provide specific quarterly guidance I can tell you that all of our projected 2012 earnings growth is reflected in the second half of the year.
We don't expect the first and second quarters of 2012 to look materially different from 2011 with the first quarter slightly higher and second quarter slightly lower assuming of course that all of our forecast assumptions are realized.
Now let me turn things back over to Greg who'll speak to 2012 and our active commitment to delivering strong and sustained earnings growth well beyond this year.
Well thanks Pat.
And just to recap 2011 was one of the strongest years in our history with record net income and we'd continue to benefit from the strong macro environment that supports our growing gas transmission business and is accelerating the growth of our gas processing business activities throughout North America.
In early '07 we told you we'd grow earnings by investing about $1 billion per year in fee-based businesses and attractive returns on capital in the 10% to 12% range.
As you can see here we're not only meeting that commitment but we're here [ph].
We intend to continue that growth focus and going forward we see opportunities to profitably invest about $15 billion through the end of the decade.
That investment will allow us to realize significant incremental earnings and cash growth with robust returns in capital in that 10% to 12% range.
And you can expect an additional $6 billion capital investment kicker from DCP where returns will average in the mid to high teens.
That's an impressive record of execution and frankly a menu of opportunity.
The power of our portfolio is driven by a number of integrated elements: First our expansive asset footprint featuring our first and last mile competitive advantage; our considerable financial strength and flexibility; multiple financing vehicles be that C-Corps or MLPs or the partnerships that we belong to; our proven track record of delivering attractive returns on capital employed; and finally reliable earnings and ongoing dividend growth.
Our confidence in our ability to continue being the investment opportunity of choice is grounded in the 125% total shareholder return that we provided investors over the last 3 years.
We know how to create value and improvement.
So with that we'll turn things back over to John and we'll open it up to take your questions.
Okay Wade would you please give instructions on how folks could ask the question to which to do so? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Ted Durbin.
Research Division</strong> My first question's really on Field Services.
I just -- maybe I missed something but you had volumes were up 6% your price is up 13% yet earnings were down or EBIT was down 11%.
I'm just -- it sounds like a lot of OpEx.
So maybe you could just give us a little more color there on kind of what happened in the quarter? Ted we talked a little bit about some of the plant efficiencies and curtailments that were ongoing in the quarter.
And so in the Permian we had a decrease at the 100% level of about $6.5 million in the fourth quarter.
Year-to-date the curtailments were $42 million and about $35 million of that's in the Permian.
So again those were 100% numbers but that is a pretty significant factor for us.
And then some of the plant reliability issues that Greg talked about that are being addressed as well as the construction that's taking place of our 2 NGL pipelines one of which Sand Hills will be in partial service by the middle of this year to take Eagle Ford volumes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So -- but if the Permian is -- it sounds like it's more of the issue of that that is not likely to be until I guess at 2013.
That's right.
Research Division</strong> Yes and what I'm getting at is I mean your guidance for '12 does have a pretty big step-up in volumes out of Field Services and I'm just trying to make sure that we're not going to run into curtailment issues for the rest of this year kind of how are you thinking about that? Well what Tom and the -- it's Greg Ted.
So what Tom and the team has done is put in some temporary fixes in terms of an ability to get some of those curtailment issues handled whether it's trucking out some of that product.
And then remember part of the Sand Hills project comes in towards the end of the year in 2012 as well so that's going to help benefit.
And then there's a bunch of work that's been done on the plant that's going to help on that front too.
So we did take into account in our 2012 guidance making sure that we understood the kind of curtailment issues that could possibly be out there and where we could not mitigate those made sure they were in the guidance.
So we feel pretty good about that at this point in time that's for sure.
And you may recall that we don't budget for weather so in the first quarter of last year we had volume degradation from some pretty significant well freeze-ups and we've added back almost $30 million of EBIT this year for that price up moderately expansion volume's up more than $30 million of EBIT and then added back some volumes or degradation this year that we don't expect to incur again because of plant reliability.
And slightly lower curtailments that we're experiencing early in the year.
So again I think we feel good about DCP's contribution to our uptick this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then I guess just sticking with the NGL theme here.
What were the -- maybe I missed this what were the Empress' earnings for the quarter for the fourth quarter and then versus what was the fourth quarter of last year? And then I think just you got -- I think you've $100 million baked in for guidance for 2012 what are you expecting there on -- you mentioned that the extraction premiums are higher are you expecting those to be kind of be flattish year-over-year or are you going to be paying higher premiums? So in the fourth quarter of 2011 Empress' EBIT was about $25 million compared to about $35 million in fourth quarter a year ago so that $10 million lower.
But for the year-to-date the EBIT in '11 was almost $110 million versus not quite $90 million in the fourth -- excuse me $110 million in '11 versus year-to-date in '10 of a little under $90 million so almost $20 million higher year-over-year.
We've got $100 million as you've said outlooked in our $1.90 for Empress for this year but continuing to see pressure on net margins as a result of the higher extraction premiums.
I'd like to say they've leveled off but we're continuing to see a little bit of pressure there.
So cautiously optimistic about that $100 million for the year at this early point in '12.
The other thing Ted is if you noticed the fourth quarter -- over fourth quarter sales volume out of Empress are higher.
So they were -- they're about 20% higher.
So they'll continue to do that that's the benefit of having that storage there.
So you're right we still have extraction premiums very high up there but our guys go and get a disproportional amount of a volume relative to the size of a plant and that's what they'll do again in 2012.
And your next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan.
Research Division</strong> I wondered if you guys could tell me if you guys had any impact from this Conway to Mont Belvieu spread at DCP Midstream? Have we seen any impacts from that? Research Division</strong> Yes to your results or to your earnings? No part of the reason why we're building the Sand Hills and Southern Hills is so that we can actually go out there and get that.
I mean most of our -- that hasn't been a big move at this point in time but we don't have the benefit that some other folks do of actually getting all of our product down to Mont Belvieu so that hasn't been an issue.
So you build those pipes we expect we'll be able to get some of that pickup.
And you're right I mean as -- I think what you're pointing to is you've seen a decline in that spread between the 2 places.
But that's something you'd expect as you build in the new pipelines and -- but you're still going to be better off than what we currently get where most of our product is stuck up in Conway.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then Greg I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit about -- right now we're at a very low natural gas pricing environment could get worse going into the summer.
How does that impact kind of your customers on the producer side of the equation? I mean do you think you have counterparty risk on that front if these guys have experience in low natural gas price realizations.
You do you worry some of that growth slowing down because of the low-price environment? Well I think it's more of the -- I mean from a credit perspective we're well over 80% of our guidance we're a strong investment grade credits.
In fact 85% so that doesn't worry me.
And most of our customers are large LDCs as well so those guys are rock solid.
If I think about some of the new projects like we announced TEAM 2014 the 2 anchor shippers that we signed up there are both very solid players as well.
So I don't see it -- if that was sustained over a very long period of time obviously that would be a little bit more concerning.
But then you see Faisel the big folks coming in and picking up these assets right? I mean you're looking at Exelon coming in and I think during its earnings call earlier this week it may declare plans to continue to drill out its program.
And that's got us focused on the short term.
So I don't see that as a big negative in the medium term that's for sure.
Low gas prices lead to much stronger demand and that tends to fix itself there more than driving up the prices.
So I think we're pretty careful from a credit perspective.
We continue to be able to bring in projects like 2014.
So I feel very good about the plans that we have in-date the projects in execution to-date are going to work through any downtick here in natural gas prices in the short term.
What we often forget as an industry that weather is a huge factor here and what I can tell you is if you turn to the DCP business it's really not about $2 or $3 or $4 gas it's about the liquids and the places where we are in the Permian the Eagle Ford et cetera those places are going to get drilled out at $2 $3 $4 gas because you're really going after liquids.
Research Division</strong> So when I'm looking at your kind of macro sort of outlook for the Western Canada obviously some of that's coming -- a lot of that production's coming from shale gas and pipe gas and some of that's been driven by to some degree by what you think could happen with LNG but have you seen any slowdown yet in that basin yet because of the low prices? Well Faisel we saw this coming.
We saw some of the pullback on the conventional stuff in the Horn River which as you know is kind of bone dry and you've seen the new developments move south into the Montney where we're active and building our plants as well.
So I guess the bottom line is that while we've seen a pullback from conventional we've seen more than that decline outstripped by the new plays they're coming in.
So -- excuse me.
I haven't -- I guess the bottom line is we continued to see the growth far outstripping in decline where people have laid rates down on the conventional side.
And you're right LNG is an opportunity out there as well.
I don't know if you saw but CNPC I think picked up a big piece of Shell's Montney play today that was announced.
And so that's obviously a big player in a big element with respect to building out LNG on the West Coast of Canada.
Your next question comes from the line of Carl Kirst.
Actually the first question might just be a confirmation.
I think I heard Pat already mentioned this but this is with respect to DCP the curtailments the reliability issues cited.
Pat you mentioned 6.5 is that the NGL production that was impacted? Where if that wasn't my question is is had we not had those curtailments what would production have otherwise looked like? Yes that reference that I made really is to NGL curtailments Carl.
And that was again primarily in the Permian that was about $6.5 million in the quarter and about $42 million for the year-to-date.
So that's kind of the magnitude.
Oh okay.
I'm sorry that's a dollar number that's not a thousand...
That's not volumetric.
Do you have a volumetric by any chance? I don't think we have that handy we can certainly get it.
I can get that offline with John no problem.
And then one other maybe question on the pipeline side.
I didn't know just to sort of dot the Is if you could tell us what the impact of Ozark was that was one.
And then just kind of a follow-up to your -- to the timing comments and then also again appreciate the quarterly timing without trying to give too much guidance but as we look at the shape of pipeline EBIT typically we tend to think of something that's more sort of a winter weighted and here we saw kind of fourth quarter being more of the low of 2011.
And as we look at first quarter first quarter 2011 was quite strong.
And so recognizing that you talked a little bit about first quarter overall perhaps meeting maybe slightly beating first quarter of 2011 is that going to be true on the pipeline as well and it's just more to make sure we have kind of a quarterly shape correct of the overall year.
Okay.
Well with respect to your first question the impact of Ozark in the quarter was about $6 million and there was some smaller effects on a couple of the other pipelines.
All taken together about $12 million in total.
And then on the second one maybe as Pat's looking at some numbers I think with respect to the shape one thing to remember between 2010 fourth quarter and 2011 fourth quarter Carl because you're right.
Usually you see that stuff coming in the fourth quarter a little pop but remember we brought in really big projects in 2010 so TEMAX TIME III.
You're talking about $600 million $700 million worth of projects of which I think for 2010 the full year impact of those projects was about a $200 million where the full year impact of the projects we brought in the U.S.
this year would be more like $30 million or $40 million.
So you're not -- it's kind of that issue of timing so we brought in much bigger projects last year so -- and you got 2/10 or 2/12 last year this year we're bringing in smaller projects and you get 2/12 of a smaller number.
So that's the way -- what happened.
Now this year as we're bringing in as Pat said you're really going to see the benefit across all the business units in the back half of the year.
Fair enough that's very helpful.
And then with respect maybe going from the fourth quarter to the first quarter as we've kind of I guess saw around 226 of EBIT here in this fourth quarter first quarter last year with 275-ish is that a ramp that can be mimicked or should we be thinking of something more flat through the year for instance? Yes.
It's more back-end loaded.
I didn't look to see much of a change in the first quarter.
And your next question comes from the line of Becca Followill.
Research Division</strong> Just once again on Sand Hills and the timing if that.
Its partial service is mid-2012 for the Eagle Ford portion.
What is the timing to bring on the Permian portion? So the rest of that'll be kind of mid-2013.
Research Division</strong> Mid-2013.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> And no partial ramp-up in that at the beginning of the year? I don't think so that's that the plan.
I mean there's no doubt that given the value that we leave on the table by not getting to the Gulf Coast market they'll be doing everything to get there but that's not the plan as of right now Becca.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then the final question is one of your peers talked this week about a major pipeline modernization program spending $4 billion over the next 5 to 10 years have you guys started to discuss anything like that with your customers to be able to recover costs or have any plans for some kind of major pipeline program? Yes well we've been doing that for the last 10 years so we don't see -- that's probably related to the pipeline safety reauthorization act that finished -- that was signed in the law in January.
We've been ramping up our program on that front and I think you can see that in our maintenance capital.
Now the regs have to come out on that but I don't see that having any big material impact.
Each one of the pipes is different.
We don't -- folks with their steel pipe and big Distribution operations in the U.S.
that often creates a much bigger challenge for them than it does the interstate pipe.
And no doubt we'll just have to continue spending money out of the maintenance side of things but I don't see anything like the magnitude that you're talking about.
And your next question comes from the line of Matthew Akman.
Research Division</strong> Pat you mentioned $65 million impact in Western Canada from volumes is that -- I'm sorry I'm not sure if I missed it but was that Empress or Horn River or did you break that down? I don't think we broke it down but it's primarily conventional dates things like Grizzly Valley.
As we move into this year we're -- with recontracting we didn't see full volume commitments being subscribed for so it's primarily or more heavily Grizzly.
Research Division</strong> And not Empress though? No not Empress.
No not at all.
Research Division</strong> Can I move to Union Gas for a second? I'm just wondering if you guys have factored any weather impact into your guidance? No.
We always assume normal weather Matt.
Research Division</strong> So obviously been pretty warm in January.
Any update on that or thoughts on what the possible impact there might be? No I can't tell you I haven't seen the numbers for January yet.
Obviously that's a negative issue now but at the same time we have offsets to some degree and it uses much compressor fuel and things like that but we'll just have to see how the quarter plays out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In the first place the recent Distribution was forecast to be down anyhow in '12 versus '11.
It was related to primarily what was that average use or...
Basically 3 factors.
You got some storage and you've got FX.
Believe it or not FX is actually lower in 2012 versus what the actual was for 2011.
So that's the big pieces that would be in there.
And your next question comes from the line of Craig Shere.
Inc.</strong> Pat on Page 11 that bridge that was very helpful.
The $30 million headwind on storage is that just pure contracting or is that net of annualized contributions from new capacity that's been brought on? It's really the net effect of both of those things Craig.
Realizing that storage margins have cut an end so on on capacity and storage it's recontracted.
It's at a lower average rate and then for new capacity like at Egan or Bobcat it would be reflecting current rates.
And then given that storage rates were a little bit stronger in the first couple of weeks of the year we looked at keeping a little bit of our capacity that came due a short-term to take advantage of the slightly higher spreads.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So those expansions you mentioned those are all coming old in that middle column under storage not under that first $125 million growth number? The storage effect is in that 30 that's correct.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And not beat a dead horse and it's doing phenomenal but on Field Services with the temporary fixes on some of the curtailment issues particularly in the Permian with trucking we kind of heard on the producer side when they've had to resort more to trucking that you can get some pretty severe basis blow out because of the tightness of not only trucks but drivers that can do that stuff.
Do you feel like whatever temporary fixes that are in are pretty much known quantities in terms of cost? Well I would expect so.
I think from a cost perspective I think we've got it.
I mean it's not just things like trucking it's also -- and we are today reliant on third parties -- third-party pipelines.
And so obviously those pipelines have to run well for us to do well.
We've put a little bit more though from a curtailment perspective in our budgets so we think we've taken in account between taking that into account between doing a better job on plant reliability and some of the mitigation we've put in place be it trucking or the like.
We feel pretty good about -- that we've got things taken into account for 2012.
Your final question comes from the line of Luis Shammy [ph].
So I had a couple of questions.
First one was with the planes buying into the Western Canadian Processing assets from BP.
Can you talk a little bit about the competitive dynamic up there as regards your share in the Empress plant and how that works? Yes.
It's a pretty challenging environment.
You basically have about 12-day of capacity and you got 5 or 6 in volume flying by the plant.
So the issue is you have to go out and for lack of a better word bid for your gas which is what we call the extraction premium.
And so despite the fact that you've seen very high liquids prices and oil and very low gas which would naturally give you a very nice frac most of that gets beat up by having the extraction premium.
And so the guys up there have a task of going up there and getting more and more volume and that's what they've been able to do.
They did that in 2011 I expect they'd do it in '12.
As to what the actual purchases by planes does and others Providence sold their pieces well.
That could lead to some rationalization up there which arguably I would suggest that's good for the marketplace but right now it's pretty competitive.
Got it.
And as regards the U.S.
Transmission segment can you talk a little bit about what the impact was in Q4 from and projects coming online? I think -- didn't the TEMAX project come online this quarter? Well actually I think that's what I was trying to explain to Carl.
When you look at Q4 you're right some of the final construction finished on TEMAX in the fourth quarter or this year.
But we actually the way that was contract construction we've basically brought all that revenue in in 2010 so you didn't see a tick-up there.
So what you saw in the fourth quarter of this year was of an $11 million pickup with respect to expansion projects that were brought in either last year and we got the benefit this year or throughout 2011.
So it's about -- $10 million $11 million would have been the actual number.
But you're right when you think about TEMAX coming in you might have thought there was a big bump there but really we got the big bump last year.
Okay.
That makes a lot of sense.
There are no further questions in queue at this time.
All right.
If there are no further questions I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today.
And as always if you should have additional questions after the call please feel free to give either Roni Cappadonna or me a call.
With that we'll -- thank you very much for calling in.
That does conclude today's conference call.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning.
My name is Tanisha and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Spectra Energy Quarterly Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
John Arensdorf you may begin.
Thanks Tanisha and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Spectra Energy's first quarter 2012 earnings review.
Thanks for joining us today.
As usual leading today's discussion will be Greg Ebel our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Pat Reddy our Chief Financial Officer.
Both Greg and Pat will discuss our quarterly results and provide more color around our strategic plans to enhance the value Spectra Energy delivers to its shareholders.
We're then going to open the line for your questions.
But before we begin let me take a moment to remind you that some of the things we will discuss today concerned future company performance and include forward-looking statements within the meanings of the securities laws.
Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements.
You should refer to the additional information contained in Spectra Energy's Form 10-K and in our other SEC filings concerning factors that could cause these results to be different than those contemplated in today's discussion.
And in addition today's discussion include certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC Reg G.
A reconciliation of those measures to the most -- directly comparable GAAP measures is available on our Investor Relations website at spectraenergy.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks very much John and good morning everybody.
As you've seen from our earnings release Spectra Energy is off to a good start in 2012 delivering solid first quarter ongoing results of $331 million or $0.51 per share.
A couple of key takeaways for you that I'm sure will come as no surprise first our results for the quarter were affected by much warmer than normal winter weather.
Historically warm in fact.
Union Gas experienced its warmest winter in more than 100 years which in turn lowered customer usage by almost 18%.
Second weaker commodity prices.
Lower NGL and natural gas prices did adversely affect DCP Midstream's earnings and the higher extraction premiums reduced margins at our Empress facility in Canada.
Fortunately and positively the effect of low commodity prices at DCP were more than offset by volume increases.
DCP's NGL production increased by more than 15% quarter-over-quarter and gathering and processing throughput increased by almost 8%.
With the exception of commodity prices and weather earnings for the quarter were in line with or slightly ahead of our expectations and we continue to execute well on our business expansion plans.
The power of our diverse portfolio helped us manage through the effects of lower commodity prices and weather.
And with NGL prices typically lower in the first quarter of the year and with pet-chem facilities coming back online from outages and the expectation of greater propane exports we remain optimistic regarding NGL prices for the remainder of the year.
That said however at least through the day the outlook for natural gas on its own continues to looks challenging as do the steep extraction premiums at Empress.
Nonetheless we've got a good handle on things we can control and a proven track record of successfully navigating through the challenges and identifying and acting on opportunities.
We're continuing to execute on our impressive slate of expansion projects underway and those on the drawing board.
And as we've indicated to you before we've got $3 billion in Spectra Energy-financed expansion and execution and more than $4 billion of DCP-financed expansion in flood.
Spectra Energy will derive additional value from the increasing distributions made by DCP Midstream to its owners a value that'll be passed along to our investors.
DCP Midstream is in the midst of a high-growth phase and continues to deliver attractive distributions to us and our partner Phillips 66.
Our expansion projects across the company including many at DCP Midstream will deliver a high level of fee-based growth to support ongoing earnings and dividend growth through various commodity and market cycles.
Let's take a look at some of the Spectra Energy and DCP Midstream opportunities.
Since we just returned from a trip to Asia in which we met with various parties about prospects for exporting liquefied natural gas or LNG from North America to international markets let's begin there.
While it's definitely still early in the process LNG exports in British Columbia would be a game changer for that region.
There's a great window of opportunity for the construction of pipelines from the suppliers to export terminal locations.
I mean given our excellent B.C.
assets we're well positioned to participate in the necessary infrastructure growth.
We would like to build at least one of the pipelines to the west coast of B.C.
but we also see great opportunities in the higher returning upstream gathering and processing investments that will be required as the export market develops.
That's an opportunity for us to further expand our impressive fee-based gathering and processing network in Western Canada.
Of course Texas Eastern is well situated to serve Gulf Coast LNG export terminals.
Our existing pipeline infrastructure will ensure we gain our fair share of Gulf Coast LNG opportunities as well over the coming years.
Now let's take a look at some of the other opportunities in the U.S.
In response to both changing supplies and growing demands Spectra Energy is pursuing an extraordinary suite of U.S.
projects representing $2 billion to $4 billion of investment opportunities over the 2014 to 2017 time frame.
These are in addition to the $3 billion of projects currently in execution.
The projects are designed to connect a variety of growing supplier regions to the growing Midwest power market premium Northeast and New England markets LDCs and power generators in Eastern Canada and finally both gas and electric utilities in the Southeast U.S.
This slide provides an update on 5 projects connected to the Marcellus and Utica basins which further demonstrate our first mile and last mile competitive advantage.
I won't go over these in detail but rather point a few highlights.
We reached binding agreements with the 2 anchor shippers for 2014 Chevron and EQT.
We expect to have this 600 million cubic feet a day project in service by the end of 2014.
Our open project has AEP as a committed anchor shipper and we recently initiated an open season to further define the project scope.
Our next project is an exciting opportunity in Ontario and the Quebec markets.
Next is focused on connecting Utica and Marcellus producers directly to the Dawn storage hub in Ontario and the growing Eastern Canadian local distribution and power markets.
We have MOUs in place for our next several customers.
You may have seen our AIM Project featured on the front page of the Boston Globe last week.
The article described how AIM offers growing Northeast and New England markets access to abundant and inexpensive Marcellus gas increases supply diversity produces price volatility providing greater supply security and hundreds of millions of dollars in cost savings for consumers.
And earlier this year we announced an open season for our Renaissance project a new pipeline system that will link growing natural gas supplies in various basins to high-demand power generation and distribution markets in Georgia Alabama and Tennessee.
We had a successful open season and expect to finalize commercial terms during the second half of the year.
And let's not lose sight of the tremendous power conversion opportunities in Florida as older coal and oil-fired fleets are converted to cleaner burning natural gas power generation.
As you know we have an existing footprint in Florida which crosses the primary service areas of 3 investor-owned utilities in the state which really gives us a strong competitive advantage.
Now let's take a look at DCP Midstream which is seeing significant volume growth particularly in the liquids-rich high-margin regions like the Permian the Eagle Ford and the DJ Basin.
DCP is also building a premier pipeline network to relieve NGL constraints and bottlenecks.
This fee-based network is designed to deliver NGLs to the premium-priced Gulf Coast markets.
As you know DCP Midstream is our 50-50 joint venture with Phillips 66 and we recently had our first board meeting with the Phillips 66 change.
We've been working with them throughout the transition and continued to be fully aligned with the strong consensus view on DCP's growth plan and the utilization of DPM and the MLP.
DCP Midstream is a top-tier processor and by a fairly wide and growing margin the largest producer of natural gas liquids in North America.
The business has an excellent existing NGL position concentrated in basins where NGL and crude fundamentals support active drilling today.
It's important to recognize DCP's recent history of investment which in turn drives gathering and processing throughput and NGL volume growth.
Natural gas and NGL market dynamics provide DCP with tremendous CapEx investment opportunities which we're actively pursuing.
Those investments drive volume and earnings growth and with DCP's $4 billion-plus slate of projects in execution and at least another $2 billion on deck it's clear to see that this positive momentum will continue to benefit Spectra Energy investors through the decade.
Let's take a look at those projects that DCP has in execution.
Two of the major wide grade pipelines we've talked about before are under construction and on target to be placed into service on time and on budget.
Sand Hills Pipeline provides NGL transportation service from the Permian and the Eagle Ford to Mont Belvieu.
And we expect to complete the project's first phase during the second half of this year for Eagle Ford service but Permian slows by the middle of 2013.
Southern Hills Pipeline targets new NGL transportation capacity from the Midcontinent to Gulf Coast markets and we expect to bring Southern Hills fully into service by mid-year 2013.
Capacity for Southern Hills will be about 150 000 barrels per day.
Now subject to approvals from the boards of both DCP and DCP Midstream Partners we would expect both Southern Hills and Sand Hills to ultimately reside within DCP Midstream Partners in the 2013 to 2014 time frame.
A couple of recently announced projects will add additional flexibility and incremental fee-based earnings to DCP's interconnected system.
The new Front Range pipeline being jointly developed by DCP Midstream Enterprise and Anadarko will connect producers in the DJ Basin to reliable takeaway capacity and a market access to the Gulf.
Three weeks ago DCP Midstream Partners acquired a 10% interest in Texas Express Pipeline.
The pipeline will provide much needed takeaway capacity for producers in the Rockies Southern Oklahoma and the Midcontinent area given them access to the largest NGL market along the Gulf Coast and the opportunity to maximize the value of their NGLs.
The quadrupling of NGL pipeline capacity from these 4 projects will result in significant fee-based earnings growth.
In addition to these pipeline assets DCP has announced plans to invest in more than 700 million cubic feet a day of new processing capacity and over 1 500 miles of new gathering infrastructure between 2011 and 2015.
And on Wednesday you may have seen DCP Midstream announced capital investments underway in the Midcontinent including about $1 billion for the Southern Hills project I mentioned and roughly another $1 billion for additional gathering and processing assets which significantly enhance its leading position in the area as the largest gatherer and processor of natural gas.
And to increase its reach in liquids-rich production place like the Granite Wash Woodford-Cana and the Mississippi line.
All of these growth projects will enhance DCP's asset portfolio to provide producers with an integrated liquids solution.
So as you can see Spectra Energy continues to create value by connecting natural gas and its related products and services to growing markets.
Our business plan and strategy remain solidly on track and we're making good headwind in our projects.
We're expanding our impressive portfolio of assets and businesses which will generate increasing levels of cash to reinvest in our business and return to our shareholders.
And we continue to demonstrate our commitment and capacity on all those fronts through the various commodity and business cycles.
So with that let me turn things over to Pat who will walk you through our first quarter financial performance.
Good morning.
As Greg mentioned Spectra Energy reported ongoing first quarter earnings of $331 million or $0.51 per share compared with $350 million or $0.54 per share in 2011.
Ongoing EBITDA for the quarter was $902 million compared with $904 million in the first quarter of 2011.
Strong earnings and cash generation from our mix of businesses allow us to fund our sizable CapEx program with no need to issue equity while continuing to strengthen our capitalization ratios maintain a solid balance sheet and grow our dividend.
Let's take a look at our performance by business segment starting with U.S.
Transmission.
We reported first quarter 2012 EBIT of $271 million compared with $279 million last year.
The 2012 quarter results reflect lower interruptible transportation revenue due to unusually warm weather compared with colder than normal weather in the first quarter of last year the effects of expected contract reductions at Ozark Gas Transmission and the acceleration of certain software amortization costs.
These results were partially offset by expansion projects previously placed into service.
Turning to Distribution.
That segment recorded first quarter EBIT of $151 million compared with $167 million in 2011.
This decrease is almost entirely due to lower customer usage as a result of warmer than normal weather the warmest in more than a century and 23% warmer than the same period last year.
Lower operating fuel cost partially offset some of the decrease.
Our Western Canada Transmission &amp; Processing business reported first quarter EBIT of $138 million compared with $141 million in 2011.
This segment experienced improved results in the gathering and processing business primarily driven by higher revenues from expansions in the Horn River area of British Columbia.
However these results were offset by lower earnings at the Empress natural gas liquids business.
This reduction is due to lower NGL margins driven primarily by lower propane prices due to the warm weather and significantly higher extraction premiums.
Now let me turn to our Field Services business which represents Spectra Energy's 50% interest in DCP Midstream.
Field Services is enjoying great momentum from its growing slate of expansion projects.
Field Services had a very strong first quarter with EBIT of $93 million compared with $81 million in 2011.
This EBIT increase reflects gas throughput that was 7% above last year and NGL production volumes that were up 15% in aggregate with especially strong growth in the Permian Eagle Ford DJ and Midcontinent areas.
You'll recall that during the first quarter of last year volumes had been significantly reduced due to severe weather.
This segment did not experience volume-reducing weather this year and in fact its earnings for the quarter reflect higher volumes from expansion projects like Mewbourn and Roberts Ranch which were placed into service in 2011.
The positive effects of these volume increases were partially offset by lower NGL and natural gas prices which reduced our share of partnership earnings by $24 million in the quarter.
As a reminder almost 50% of DCP barrels are priced at Conway.
DCP and its customers will benefit once Southern Hills is in service and relieves the current bottleneck between Conway and Mont Belvieu.
With its $89 million cash distribution to Spectra Energy in the quarter DCP Midstream continues its record of paying attractive partnership distributions to its owners.
Now let me turn to other which is primarily comprised of corporate costs including benefits and captive insurance expense.
Other reported net costs of $29 million in the first quarter of 2012 compared with net costs of $24 million in last year's quarter.
Interest expense was $157 million compared with $155 million last year.
At the end of the first quarter our debt to total capitalization ratio stood at 55.6%.
We expect to fund our CapEx program through a combination of internally generated funds and debt while staying within our targeted 55% to 60% range for leverage.
And at the quarter's close we have total capacity under our credit facilities of $2.9 billion and available liquidity of about $2 billion.
So that's an overview of our first quarter results.
We feel good about where we are today and where we're headed in the future.
We're continuing our growth focus and we see opportunities to profitably invest about $15 billion to the end of this decade.
That investment will allow growth with robust returns on capital.
Our record of strong sustained cash generation benefits our investors.
You can expect continued and attractive dividend growth from Spectra Energy.
We intend to grow our dividend by at least $0.08 a year with upside potential to our 65% payout target.
As you've heard today we're able to deliver value and growth across all market cycles because we have an expansive asset footprint featuring our first and last mile competitive advantage.
We have considerable financial strength and flexibility enhanced by multiple financing vehicles.
We have a proven track record of delivering attractive returns on capital employed.
And last but by no means least we deliver reliable earnings and ongoing dividend growth.
So with that let me turn things back over to John so we can open the lines and take your questions.
Okay thanks Pat.
Tanisha would you instruct the participants how to ask questions please? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Stephen Maresca with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if I could get your view on the Southern Hills' 150 000 barrel a day expansion and you talked about the Conway Belvieu.
And just your view is that -- do you think the 150 000 along with the other lines out there are enough to help alleviate this discount between Conway and Belvieu? Is there an opportunity or a need to expand Southern Hills beyond that 150 000 barrel a day? And how long do you think it takes before we get more even pricing between those 2 points? Yes.
I think that there's definitely going to be a need for more.
And I think we could take the Southern Hills up to probably around 200 000 over time.
So there's no doubt that -- you still -- I saw it yesterday I guess it was still a $0.30 or so [ph] delta between the 2.
And as you know Stephen we've got 50% of our barrels coming at our Conway base.
So obviously closing that is a big uplift for us.
So I think given the amount of investment that we've seen just by doing Sand Hills and doing Southern Hills I think you'll continue to see more pipelines be built.
And there's some others with other phases [ph] as well.
So I don't think by any stretch of the imagination this will be the end or that that will be enough to close some of the delta that you see.
It's also why Front Range and Texas Express were important for us to be involved with as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then looking at the quarter you guys realized about $1 I think again on NGL pricing which I guess it compares to sort of $1.25 guidance that you had in the beginning of the year.
And just your views if you have any just on how this is going to play out in terms of NGL pricing for the rest of the year.
How do you think that impacts you obviously? Well I mean I think we've put out our impacts on that full year every change in penny and NGLs.
But I think people have there -- there's a couple of things we can't forget.
One traditionally and historically the odds are that your first quarter is going to be the weakest quarter on NGLs.
Not every first quarter but most of them.
Secondly inventories tend to peak in May and then those inventories are drawn down.
And that's driven by the fact you've got all the crackers and turnaround in the first quarter.
This year interestingly enough a number of those turnarounds lasted longer than expected and there were several that were unexpected Williams Eastman but they had downtime that they hadn't planned on.
And then finally you had the very warm winter that pushed down prices of propane which obviously has an impact.
All of those things I think you'll see turn around as the year goes forward and you'll start to see a recovery in the natural gas prices in the natural gas liquids prices as well.
So at this point in time I'm optimistic that those will turn around and obviously whether we'll get to the $1.25 for the year average we'll have to see.
But it's a little early to make that call.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Final point from me.
You mentioned Greg Southern and Sand Hills going into DCP Partners in that '13 '14 time frame which I think was something new.
Just how do you view financing there at DCP Partners? Those are pretty big projects.
Would the parent potentially be willing to take stock back as what we've seen a lot recently with some parents helping out on big financing plans? And then you just what this means potentially -- where you'd like to be.
You mentioned your payout ratio and the dividend at 65% but upside potential where would you be willing to go down the line with that? Well just let me work those in reverse.
I mean we haven't even got the 65% so we still have a ways to go there.
And I think that gives us some opportunity which obviously we'll look at with the board later on in the year.
With respect to DCP I mean we're already financing both Southern Hills and Sand Hills and we have typically taken back our -- taken back units for the proportion that we own.
I will say DPM has put in its own funding capacity of up to $2 billion in the last year with a $1 billion capacity and credit facility and I would expect they'd access to market for the remainder of the equity.
The real power of this as you well know is that basically the partners Spectra and Phillips 66 through its ownership of DCP will fund about 1/3 of it.
DPM will fund about 2/3 of this and yet the partners will realize about 50% of the earnings and cash flow all of which will come back in increased distributions to the parents.
So I'm pretty excited about that.
I think that's the right way to do it for DCP.
And I think that'll allow DPM to be able to manage that.
You're going to use the cheapest cost of debt i.e.
at DCP and at least at this point in time a cheaper cost of equity at DPM to be able to move those fee-based projects over.
Your next question comes from the line of Ted Durbin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow up on Stephen's question there.
I guess you are getting a lot bigger in terms of spending profile at DCP.
Would you -- if you continue to expand would you consider not taking distributions back for a limited amount of time just to make sure that DCP Midstream can actually fund all the growth CapEx? And part of what I'm thinking is you continue to nail up all these new pipeline projects maybe you want to expand further into say storage fractionation et cetera.
I'm just wondering what the capital constraints are in DCP and if you'd be willing to give them a break.
Well I mean look I would suggest that the partners are going to do whatever's in the long-term economic best interest.
At this point in time we don't see the need for that.
But if -- as you know the pipes that we're building now we're going to quadruple the volumes on NGL side that we'll be able to move.
That's going to generate cash obviously.
Some of which already does stay with the business.
But yes it'd be open to that.
But at this point in time I think with the 2/3 funding come from DPM and 1/3 from DCP it should be manageable.
But if it quadrupled again in terms of the amount of CapEx then that's something we'd obviously have a discussion that make economic sense.
I would think that's interest in all the shareholders both 66 and SE but also in just SE shareholders directly.
And Ted.
We've modeled this in pretty good detail even for our 5-year plan at the partnership.
And it's really reflecting the fact that it's a combination of dropdowns and co-investment and that construction takes place like on the pipelines over multiple years.
So it does look like it fits pretty nicely with DPM's ability to issue equity in reasonable tranches.
And even for things like potential fractionation investments in the future as Greg said we just haven't faced that yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then next just any update you can give us on the New Jersey-New York project when you're expecting approval from FERC.
Still feeling good about sort of $1.1 billion cost estimate there? Yes.
Absolutely.
When we put our $1 billion to $1.2 billion we feel good about that.
I would expect that we'll get the FERC approval.
And I am reading tea leaves a little bit but I feel pretty good about getting that this month and then moving on to construction in the summer.
As you know they -- their schedules -- they meet typically monthly.
And so [indiscernible] I would expect that which getting into construction here this summer is obviously going to be important for us to hit our November 23 time frame but we're all lined up from contractors from equipment from what we can do on the land side prior to getting a FERC approval.
So I feel good about where we are Ted and believe we will get that in on the cost estimates that we've provided you.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then last one for me.
I don't know how much you can comment but there is a large -- call it a large package of natural gas pipeline assets that are out there in the market.
I'm just wondering how you'd see those as a potential set with your asset base.
Yes I'm not going to comment about that a ton other than to say that anything -- there are various assets out there that come on the market every so often.
We have a very strong balance sheet.
The balance sheet just continues to get stronger we have great liquidity good cash flow.
We obviously have SEP and we have DPM and I don't think there's any doubt that we could pounce very quickly if we found something that we've thought a made good strategic sense and b we could do from an economic perspective.
So I would leave it right there.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Akman with Scotiabank.
Research Division</strong> Have you looked at the possibility of an institutional-type share for the MLP? Or is Spectra broadly looking at that in order to gain more access wider access to capital markets as DCP's business accelerates? That's not something that we've actively pursued at this point.
We haven't really seen any governor or limiter on receptivity or market interest in DPM shares.
Obviously as we get bigger and they issue upwards $1 billion a year of equity we'll consider all facets.
But that's not something that we've needed to look at yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Guys still on that segment obviously the business is taking advantage of its ability to capture growing NGL volumes or pipeline and other infrastructure and moving more into the NGL area than gas in the U.S.
In Canada it's less so and it's more on gas processing but there is a lot going on in Canada also in NGL infrastructure.
Have you guys looked more at taking that U.S.
business model that's more -- getting more focused on NGL and for growth and kind of transporting it to Canada? Or can you see yourselves as getting more aggressive in Canada on NGL infrastructure? Absolutely.
I mean as you know we have -- we're currently completing $1.5 billion spend in Canada in both processing and on the pipeline side.
But there's no doubt as you move in the -- down from the Horn River into the Montney regions Duvernay et cetera there's some good opportunities we think there on the NGL side providing infrastructure solutions.
Yes it's a challenging market there with the gas price at AECO.
But we are definitely looking at those opportunities and think that those could come to fruition here over the next 12 months.
As you know a lot of producers are trying to figure out exactly what their next move is in Canada but we're throwing ideas against the wall as to what could be the next phase of growth.
Research Division</strong> Just my last follow-up I mean with Plains buying BP and Pembina merging with Provident I mean just is Spectra thinking about doing maybe something bigger more dramatic in Canada? Or just kind of incremental bolt-on to the more gas processing business? Yes.
I wouldn't say -- there's 2 answers to that.
No with respect to going bigger on the Empress-type business.
As you know that's a relatively small part of our business.
But yes definitely on the NGL infrastructure side.
And of course we're pursuing hard the opportunities both upstream vis--vis fee-based GNP and pipeline associated with LNG on the West Coast.
I mean those investments could be extremely large as you know the pipelines that could get built.
And I think it's still a couple of years away before people decide pipelines could get built for LNG.
It could be anywhere from $4 billion to $10 billion.
And your next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> It's Faisel from CitI.
On the U.S.
transmission you guys talked about I think lower interruptible transportation revenues.
Is that just weather? Or was there something else going on in the quarter? No just weather.
And it's really that we did really well on that front last year.
It was a cold year last year.
When I say last year 2011 winter.
And so with much warmer weather the opportunity to capture the interruptible that was really the delta that was out there.
Pretty unusual that you'd see that much of a swing in weather from year-to-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
Yes I guess if it's a -- the warmest winter in 100 years I guess we'll see that.
Okay and just on the Conway issue do you guys -- have you guys calculated the opportunity cost that's kind of been loss by you're not being able to get your barrels further south? Yes painfully so.
Yes we have Faisel.
I mean -- and I think where you're going is "So what is that front number?" I don't think I'd put that out there right now.
I mean part of it's a bit of a mug scheme as to how much more in volumes how much of the decline or closing of the gap you will see.
But I mean in some respects you can look at what we produced call it a couple of hundred thousand barrels that are kind of associated with Conway and if you thought you had a $0.30 delta today and that that will help close it I mean you could pick a point in between I guess and come up with a number and make your own judgment as to how much that's going to move.
If you don't think it will move at all -- and if I look at it 2016 '17 and see all the crackers that could be -- that could kick in maybe it's not going to move as much as people think it is.
And that's further upside for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then just -- since we've seen another transaction in an MLP and SE Corp.
space I just want to ask the question again -- I know I've asked you this before but would you guys do anything within the current company in terms of moving some of your SE Corp.
assets into the MLP and doing some sort of transaction like that? Or is there any benefit for you to even doing something like that? Well I think the real benefit is at DCP.
And that's where as I mentioned earlier that's where you're really see us making that move.
It's -- sure I mean it's an option I guess at SE but -- directly but we don't see those assets -- I mean we've moved a lot of the good assets into there at this point in time.
Remember we have a large bulk of assets in Canada so it's not very tax efficient from that perspective in terms of moving cash back and forth to cross the border into an MLP.
And then lastly obviously you got very low tax spaces in the assets we have remaining.
As we build new assets in many of these other projects that's definitely something we'll look at.
And if we see value upside then we'd go down that route.
Your next question comes from the line of Curt Launer with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask for some additional information with what you can tell us relative to Western Canada transmission and processing.
It sits at about 20% of the overall earnings now.
And the upside in Horn River and Montney seems a little bit more clear relative to what's happening with the development of Cabin Gas but also was offset by the Empress business which continues to be troubled.
So the magnitude of those things now that you're not reporting Empress separately is what I'd like to get a little bit more information about if we could.
Sure.
Well you know in the expansion and I think you'll continue to see this growth $30 million of new expansion EBIT that came in in the quarter versus a year ago and we'll continue to see that rise through -- as the projects come online but that's a pretty healthy side.
No doubt as you pointed out we'd probably gave up about that much or a little bit more at Empress but that has a limited downside if you will.
So I think you'll continue to see those type of increases quarter-over-quarter on the expansion side and you won't see that type of decline obviously at Empress.
Even -- last year at full max the full year last year was around $100 million at Empress.
So that's your order of magnitude if -- I guess if you wanted to be ultimately negative.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Well the ultimate negative is sort of sounding like where we are now.
So the next follow-up then becomes what would it take for Empress to get anywhere near better here? Well I think 2 things.
Obviously more volumes out of Western Canada would be helpful.
But remember one of the biggest -- there are 2 things.
There -- so that's an extraction premium issue on volumes.
So that's about half the impact but the other half is just low propane prices Curt.
So obviously again with the 100-year warm weather you're going to have extremely low propane prices and that would have been about half of the impact from a negative perspective we saw this quarter over the last first quarter.
And so I would expect those propane prices as you move back to normal weather to come back online.
And your next question comes from the line of Carl Kirst with BMO Capital Markets.
Actually I think -- well maybe 2 clean-up questions if I could on Union.
The first is just if you could just refresh my memory with the 5-year settlement kind of concluding this year.
What's the time frame of when we should be reaching something new with the Ontario regulators? Well I believe we just filed or we're just in the process of filing for next year.
So you set a new base year and we'd expect that to be settled obviously before you get into next year.
And then after that base year so it'd be another year out before you -- if you go down the route of another 5-year rate deal.
So you got 1 year setting base rates which I wouldn't -- we'll have to see how all that shakes up.
But I think we've seen a good benefit for consumers as well as shareholders.
So I'd hope we'd stick in the same range.
But it's another year out before we determine if you're in a 5-year rate deal or something longer or something shorter.
Okay I appreciate that and then...
Carl this is Pat.
The key thing we're going take in '13 and then for the 5 years and beyond in terms of preserving the incentives that we have in the existing 5-year structure they're trying to thicken our equity compounded [ph] of capital structure and increase our return on equity more in line with NEB standards.
Research Division</strong> No fair enough.
And then just also on Union and just trying to kind of get a better sense of -- if you could quantify perhaps the weather impact given how historically warm it was.
Only because since we were colder than normal last year the EBIT shift isn't -- favorably not as bad as we thought it would be.
And so I didn't know if there was anything else.
I mean you cited sort of lower fuel cost but I didn't know if there was anything else in Transmission or storage that was cushioning it that was sort of basically increasing that base business shall we say.
Yes.
The weather impact you're right.
It was warm.
I'm always saying that if you'd a 100-year warmer weather you'd be plus or minus 10% and I think -- well obviously minus in that regard and that's about where we were.
So you're about to $25 million down from a weather perspective versus the year earlier.
And then that was partially offset -- you benefited $6 million to $8 million from [indiscernible] so obviously by now pushing as much gas through.
So the net of those call it $17 million $20 million kind of impact.
And your next question comes from the line of Chris Sighinolfi from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Greg I'm just curious.
You mentioned earlier in your commentary about a recent trip to Asia and we've been talking about the Western Canadian LNG export opportunity for some time.
I guess I'm curious we've seen a couple of facilities up there permitted by the NEB and the federal government and I think you had a trade mission back in the fall.
So as the discussions become more mature are you able to tell me a little bit more of that sort of how they're progressing and the sorts of issues that are now being in focus as sort of discussions become more mature? Sure.
I think there's a couple of factors.
One -- and when we go over there we see everybody from the trade houses to utilities and this is the first trip that I personally had been on and also investors frankly.
And the issues are probably threefold.
So first of all just -- they want to know who the pipeline potential carriers are us and others the size of the pie if you will right down to kind of drawing pictures on maps if you will and how much that would cost.
Two they want to know our views and share their own views on what you think the pricing mechanism is.
Is it typical JCC or is it going to be something off NYMEX? Similar kind of discussions you would see in the Gulf.
And then lastly and this is an important one and it's a political risk issue.
Can you get projects permitted in a time that makes it relevant to the market? And so on that regard it seems like both the B.C.
government is very supportive of multiple corridors whether it's Prince Rupert or other sites like Kitimat.
And it seems like the federal government is trying in Canada is trying to accelerate the whole regulatory review process for that.
So that's the nature of the 3 discussions.
And of course obviously we also talked about our position in the Gulf and our ability to build header systems into any and all the LNG facilities there and storage.
And so that's the general nature of the discussion.
As I've said I think it's still a couple of years away before FID is made on many of these projects.
And so people are really in a due diligence mode both from provider of services macroeconomic sides and whether you can actually get things built.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
I guess given the fact that you can speak about this issue from both a U.S.
and a Canadian perspective when you're over there can you give me a sense if at all if there's a sort of an inclination that the Canadian government would be more favorable or work faster than the U.S.
government or vice versa? Or is it too early to say? Well I guess what I'd say they're more concerned about political risks in the United States than they are in Canada.
But there's no doubt they understand it's bigger built in Canada than it is in the U.S.
So I don't think it means one way or the other for different reasons there.
And you can see the various players in both British Columbia or Western -- North -- West Coast of North America and the Gulf.
They're often the similar players.
So you see a lot of hedging of bets at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I just want to follow-up very quickly on Greg's question earlier about Empress.
We spoke I think around fourth quarter about your cautious optimism about sort of holding a line on some of these extraction premiums.
Obviously Greg you mentioned the broken situation up there in the first quarter.
I think you guys have had formerly around $100 million in EBIT in the guidance.
Do you have any updated thoughts on where that might shake out or things that you might do? Is there any -- I guess my curiosity question.
Is there anything you can do just to help mitigate those extraction premiums or is it just a volume situation? Well I think it's a volume situation.
There's not a ton that we can do to make it the extraction premiums.
I think the biggest thing is you have propane prices coming back vis--vis kind of improved weather and fundamentals on that side.
Trying to do a few more things for customers may help.
But if I was looking at it now I'd kind of more be in the kind of $40 million range probably $30 million to $40 million range for Empress today.
But again that depends on if we get back to a normal overall year weather that means you could see a very cold start to the winter in the fourth quarter and then that number is going to be low.
So we often -- I know I often say this but we really do often forget what a major impact weather does have across the entire value chain.
And so I'll have to see how that shakes out.
But hopefully that gives you a little bit better color on it.
Okay.
You do have a question from the line of Jonathan LeFebvre with Kensico Capital.
Greg it's Jonathan LeFebvre of Kensico.
Just wanted to focus for a moment on your MLP strategy that you discussed with Faisal as it relates to the U.S.
Transmission assets and SEP.
Over the last few years we've seen guys like Williams Kinder target at ONEOK all shift to this GP hold co [ph] strategy which has unlocked a lot of value for them.
And so I guess my question is have you looked at or have you considered utilizing tax efficient 1031 exchange of your U.S.
Transmission assets for SEP units with the idea that you could remove the growth CapEx off the parent's balance sheet and therefore significantly increase the dividend and dividend growth rate at Spectra Corp.
which is obviously a key value driver for a lot of your shareholders.
So I guess I'm just curious have you' looked at it and if you have what are the key impediments with utilizing this strategy? Because clearly on paper it appears to unlock a lot of value.
I think it's a couple of things.
One the big Canadian side of things which is an important piece -- so if you don't want to leave an orphan piece -- today we've looked at it seeing it from a hybrid perspective where we've got SEP we've got DCP.
I think the biggest value increment is actually on the DCP DPM side of things.
Yes -- but there's no doubt -- look I mean we always look at these things.
If we thought there was a big value piece in there that would be something that we'd look closer at.
I think the very low tax base of side of things there's no doubt you could take back some units but that's not going to do much from a cash perspective.
And we think as we've said we can grow the dividend at a very healthy rate in the C corp-type structure where it gives us the balance of being able to utilize what would be a cheaper cost of debt at the corporate side of things while still being able to use SEP equity on the growth side.
I mean when you've seen us with assets such as Gulfstream and other singular assets if you will with higher basis those been opportunities to drop in and we'll look at continuing to do those.
And then the other issue I will say in the next year that is at least something that I think one has to consider is the whole issue of tax reform.
And that's something that we're watching cautiously.
We've seen that happen in Canada where we had an MLP structure and then we saw corporate changes on that front that hurt the tax side of things.
So for now the focus is really at DCP and moving those assets which will benefit us obviously into DPM.
And they're building very large new pipelines on that front.
Right.
I guess my -- just as a follow-up if I may.
You talk about tax reform.
I mean I guess there's a risk as well that if you don't move these assets and they're left at the parent you could be at a competitive disadvantage relative to the peers who already have moved and could potentially be grandfathered in that scenario as well.
I'm just wondering how the board thinks about that risk.
We haven't seen ourselves in a competitive disadvantage at this point that's for sure.
Remember a lot of other MLP structures were put in place and things -- a lot of it because they have a lot of -- they hadn't separated out businesses like E&amp;P et cetera.
We haven't had that challenge.
We separated in 2007 from Duke and hadn't seen that.
I mean look our history on MLPs is pretty clear.
We've had a great history on MLPs.
We do like to use them.
We just today have not seen the value increment again given the DCP side of things from a commodity perspective and given that 40% of our assets are in Canada.
But obviously all structures are on the table and we look at that and if we thought that was the right way to go that's something we'd definitely look at closely.
And your next question comes from the line of Yves Siegel with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
Qualitatively could you just discuss what the impact of the low gas prices has been? Sure.
Well obviously the biggest impact has been at DCP Midstream.
And the gas prices are about $1.25 lower.
Do we have a...
We averaged $2.74 in the first quarter of this year versus $4.11 last year.
And then of course we provide the sensitivity for natural gas but as Greg said earlier the primary impact there is on the NGL gallons.
That's the biggest mover at DCP.
Ironically of course lower gas prices qualitatively can help Transmission and Distribution as long as we have decent weather.
You probably saw the article in the Wall Street Journal earlier in the week about how dramatically power generators have shifted to natural gas and away from coal in the last just few months and that's the trend that continues to accelerate.
So there is some upside of lower and stable gas prices for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could when you think about the CapEx budget for this year the timing of sanctioning any of the projects that you have is potential.
Will that -- could that impact spending this year? Or is that going to more be pushed into the next year? It's pretty small.
I mean you could push some of it into the next year.
But you know I don't expect that to be a significant mover of cash flow or utilization during the year Yves.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question too is just all the questions about -- around how you're going to finance growth and restructuring and all that stuff.
It would seem to me that really a return on capital and cost of capital are the -- sort of the important drivers here.
And when you think about acquisitions and you think about the return that you're getting on your projects can you sort of put that into context as it relates to 10% to 11% type of rosy target? How that compares to what you're thinking about on the MLP and then how that might impact your thinking about acquisitions.
Yes absolutely.
Well obviously again when we look at DPM or SEP I think you've seen us use the SEP or DPM equity to go out there and finance acquisitions.
But we view C corp debt which is obviously cheaper because you've got the tax shelter there.
We've continued to target 10% to 12% returns in the last 3 years.
You've seen us actually being above 14% type returns.
DCP would even see higher teen returns in the activities that they've got going.
So I think the hybrid model as we look at it being able to use both C corps when that's the cheapest form of capital and MLPs when that's the cheapest form of capital actually it works well for our shareholders.
And it works well for our unitholders at our MLPs.
You've us do drops on occasion you've seen -- both at SEP and at DPM and you've seen us do acquisitions there.
So I think it's that hybrid model that we see that allows us to get the best return overall for both the unitholders and shareholders whether it's common or it's LP unitholders.
[Operator Instructions] I think we'll just go ahead -- and our hour is about up so why don't we go ahead and end the call today if there are no more questions.
Thanks very much for joining us today.
I appreciate it very much.
And as always if you have additional questions feel free to call either Roni Cappadonna or me.
And I'll just look forward to seeing many of you out at the AGA conference early next week.
Thanks very much.
This does conclude today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Krista and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Spectra Energy Quarterly Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Arensdorf you may begin your conference.
Thanks Krista and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Spectra Energy's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Review.
Thanks for joining us today.
Leading today's discussion will be Greg Ebel our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Pat Reddy our Chief Financial Officer.
Both Greg and Pat will discuss our quarterly results and provide more color around our strategic plans to enhance the value Spectra Energy delivers to its shareholders.
We'll then open the lines for questions.
But before we begin let me take a moment to remind you that some of the things we will discuss today concerns future company performance and include forward looking statements within the meanings of the securities laws.
Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements.
You should refer to the additional information contained in Spectra Energy's Form 10-K and in our other SEC filings concerning factors that could cause these results to be different from those contemplated in today's discussion.
In addition today's discussion include certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC Reg G.
A reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available on our Investor Relations website at spectraenergy.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks John and good morning everybody.
As you've seen from our earnings release Spectra Energy delivered second quarter ongoing results of $215 million or $0.33 per share.
Like many in the sector we felt the effects of weak commodity prices which were much lower than our original assumptions.
Our Field Services segment experienced the most significant impact.
However lower propane prices also adversely affected our Empress plants in Western Canada.
It was definitely a tough quarter for commodity prices.
NGL prices dropped almost 40% from 2011.
NYMEX natural gas average almost 50% lower and prices were weakened by a lower demand caused by petchem outages slower economic conditions record warm winter weather and exceptionally dry summer affecting crop drying expectations.
Recently we have seen an uptick in commodity prices off the low point about 6 weeks ago.
But I think it's fair to say that it would take an extraordinary increase in NGL prices for the rest of the 2012 to be at the average level we projected at the begin of the year.
Pat will provide more details around our commodity price expectations in just a few minutes but given the current and near-term commodity price environment it's very unlikely we'll realize our $1.90 earnings per share target for 2012.
Now that said looking beyond the quarter to the longer-term the NGL fundamentals remain very positive for our business.
Crude oil remains expensive relative to NGLs new demand sources on the petrochemical front are set to come into service mid-decade.
The infrastructure bottlenecks that restrict our volumes and Conway pricing relative to Mont Belvieu should dissipate over the next 12 to 18 months.
In addition propane should benefit from new export facilities starting late this year and early next.
And we'll then have to assume that the abnormally warm winters and dry summers we've experienced are just that abnormal.
All of these supports the long-term growth of the NGL business in North America and as a large producer of NGLs in the U.S.
bodes very well for Spectra Energy's NGL business.
Importantly our fee-based businesses continue to perform in line with our expectations and our expansion opportunities remains strong and growing.
And as we projected at the beginning of the year we saw increased earnings from expansion projects at U.S.
Transmission Western Canada and Field Services during the second quarter.
Our consistent fee-based earnings allowed us to deliver predictable steady dividend growth regardless of the commodity cycles.
And as we have indicated previously we remain very confident in our ability to deliver at least an $0.08 increase in our annual dividend over the next several years.
In support of our growing dividend we've had a solid roster of expansion projects those are now in execution.
They include about $4 billion in Spectra Energy-financed projects and more than $4 billion of DCP-financed expansion projects.
We also have a robust pipeline of development projects providing additional opportunities to create ongoing shareholder value.
All of these underlines our expectations of investing up to $20 billion through the end of the decade.
In the near term our 2012 to '14 expansion projects are in execution and on track.
And we're starting to see the benefits of projects going into service.
I'll highlight a few of these.
In Western Canada we're in the homestretch to complete about $1.5 billion Horn River Montney investment program a series of strategic expansion projects.
The first phase of the Dawson processing plant is now in service and construction of Phase 2 is underway and expected to be completed by early 2013.
The T-North pipeline expansion project provides additional takeaway capacity from the Horn River and Montney areas and is supported by long-term firm contracts with shippers.
This project went into service in the second quarter.
And our final project in this investment program is the Fort Nelson North plant which we expect to go online late this year.
Also on track to go on to service in late 2012 is our $200 million TEAM 2012 project designed to move Marcellus supplies from South Western Pennsylvania to markets in the Northeast.
The project's fully subscribed by Range Resources and Chesapeake Utilities.
And the next phase of our team project is the TEAM 2014 project.
We've reached binding agreements with 2 anchor shippers Chevron and EQT for the project's full capacity.
And we submitted our FERC prefiling in July.
We expect to begin construction in early 2014 for the targeted in-service date of late 2014.
Last month we started construction on the New Jersey - New York expansion project having received FERC approval in late June.
And when this $1.2 billion project goes into service in the fourth quarter of 2013 it will provide much needed gas supply in economic benefits to the region.
It will also create future opportunities for us in the area and annual EBITDA of about $110 million.
A smaller project that you might not be aware of is the Thunder Bay project which will serve an Ontario power plant being converted from coal to gas.
This project is actually the first of an expected $300 million to $400 million slate of opportunities to capture continued power generation conversions in Ontario.
And as we earlier -- as we said earlier DCP Midstream is moving forward with more than $4 billion of projects in execution producing fee-based earnings growth by quadrupling its NGL pipeline capacity.
DCP is making excellent progress on 2 major NGL pipeline projects Sand Hills and Southern Hills.
The Sand Hills Pipeline is designed to provide NGL transportation from the Permian basin and Eagle Ford shale region to the Gulf Coast.
They'll be phased into service with the first phase about 65% complete already and scheduled to be in service from Eagle Ford to the Mont Belvieu area later this year.
Right away acquisition of material sourcing is substantially complete for the second phase from the Permian which has a targeted in-service date of the second half of 2013.
Southern Hills which you'll recall will provide NGL transportation from the Midcontinent to Mont Belvieu has a targeted in-service date of mid-'13.
Rehabilitation work on the existing pipeline which we purchased from ConocoPhillips in the fourth quarter 2011 is nearing completion and construction of more than 300 miles of new pipelines has been initiated.
In addition to these NGL pipeline projects DCP is also building and expanding a number of gas processing plants.
It recently broke ground on 3 of these projects.
The expansion of the National Helium Plant in the Midcon.
The LaSalle Plant which will provide service to producers in the DJ Basin.
And the Rawhide processing plant that will serve producers focused on the Wolfberry production in the West Texas region of the Permian.
As a reminder DCP self-funds its own growth which of course is advantageous to Spectra Energy and its investors.
As mentioned earlier with our expansion projects and our development plans on the horizon we see more than $20 billion in expansion projects and opportunities through the end of the decade.
In U.S.
Transmission we're pursuing $5 billion to $8 billion in development opportunities many of them including NEXT OPEN AIM and Renaissance will connect from Marcellus and Utica suppliers to diverse North American markets including the Midwest power market premium Northeast and New England markets LDCs and power generators in Eastern Canada and gas and electric utilities in the Southeast U.S.
And we've got other opportunities across their system as well.
In Western Canada we see about $4 billion to $6 billion in expansion projects through the decade.
We're continuing to pursue opportunities around LNG exports and in fact we're in advanced negotiations to provide pipeline infrastructure to support the development of British Colombia LNG export projects.
And DCP Midstream has another $2 billion to $3 billion in the development opportunities primarily in gathering and processing in NGL infrastructure.
So as you can see our business plan and strategy remains solidly on track.
We're expanding our impressive portfolio of assets and we're continuing to demonstrate our commitment and capacity in all fronts through our various commodity and base business cycles.
Rewarding investors with steady reliable dividend growth.
So with that let me turn things over to Pat who will take you through our second quarter financial performance before we take your questions.
Well thank you Greg and good morning all.
As Greg mentioned Spectra Energy reported ongoing second quarter earnings of $215 million or $0.33 per share compared with $275 million or $0.42 per share in 2011.
Ongoing EBITDA for the quarter was $674 million compared with $816 million last year.
As we've noted before our ability to generate solid levels of cash flow throughout general market and commodity cycles allows us to fund a substantial portion of expansion capital while continuing to maintain an investment grade balance sheet and consistently grow our dividend.
Let's turn now to the business segments that generate that strong cash flow.
First U.S.
Transmission reported second quarter 2012 EBIT of $237 million compared with $243 million last year.
Quarterly EBIT reflects increased earnings from expansion projects as expected.
However the benefit was more than offset by lower processing revenues and as expected lower storage revenues.
Now let's move to Distribution.
Distribution reported second quarter EBIT of $75 million compared with $88 million in 2011.
The decrease is mainly due to a $5 million charge resulting from a negative regulatory decision affecting 2010 and 2011 storage revenues and a weaker Canadian dollar.
Turning now to Western Canada Transmission &amp; Processing.
That business reported second quarter EBIT of $94 million compared with $113 million in 2011.
Contributing to second quarter results were additional earnings from the Horn River expansion projects and lower expenses due to the lack of any processing plant turnarounds this quarter.
The second quarter of 2011 reflected cost associated with the McMahon Plant turnaround.
However these gains were more than offset by losses at the Empress NGL plant attributable mainly to lower NGL sales prices.
For the second quarter Empress realized an operating loss of $10 million and also recorded an $8 million noncash charge associated with a lower cost for market adjustment to its propane inventory.
Until there is significant recovery in propane prices we expect to see weak results from Empress.
Let's turn now to Field Services which reported second quarter EBIT of $66 million compared with $138 million in 2011.
During the quarter Field Services benefited from higher volumes as a result of its investment in key growth areas such as the Permian Basin and the Eagle Ford.
Results also benefited from a reduction of depreciation expense which recognizes an extension of the life of its gathering and processing assets attributable to the increase in recoverable reserves thanks to enhanced drilling techniques.
This accounting adjustment will benefit Spectra Energy on an ongoing basis by about $25 million per quarter.
However these positive effects were more than offset by lower commodity prices.
During the second quarter of 2012 average NGL prices dropped by $0.47 from the prior year and NYMEX natural gas declined by $2.09.
Crude oil prices saw a much lower decline averaging about $10 per barrel or 10% lower than a year ago.
The bottom line is that we're seeing a historically low and in our view unsustainable correlation of NGLs to crude oil.
The correlation is currently running about 30% compared to the 50% to 60% level that we've seen over the last 10 years.
Barring significant commodity price improvements we expect to see average annual NGL prices in the $0.75 to $0.85 per gallon range based on DCP's mix of NGL prizes which is weighted about 50% Conway and 50% Mount Belvieu.
We expect natural gas prices in the $2.50 to $3 range and crude at about $90 for the full year.
Based on the sensitivities that we've previously provided for our Field Services segment you can estimate the effect that low commodity prices will have on Field Services earnings contribution to Spectra Energy's results this year.
Notwithstanding the weaker commodity price environment that we find ourselves in we still received $61 million of cash distributions from DCP Midstream during the quarter and $150 million year-to-date.
Now let me turn to Other which is primarily composed of corporate costs including employee and retiree benefits and captive insurance expense.
Other reported net costs of $25 million compared with $29 million in last year's quarter.
Interest expense was $155 million compared to the $159 million last year.
Income tax expense from continuing operations was $80 million compared to the $125 million last year.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 25% on a reported basis and 27% reflecting controlling interest and we think that 27% is about our run rate for the full year.
And the slightly weaker Canadian dollar decreased second quarter net income by about $4 million compared to last year's quarter.
At the end of the second quarter our debt to total capitalization ratio stood at about 56%.
We continue to expect to fund our expansion CapEx program through a combination of internally generated funds and debt while maintaining our investment grade credit metrics.
And at the quarter's close we had total capacity under our credit facilities of about $2.9 billion with available liquidity of about $1.9 billion.
So it was a bit of a tough quarter because of commodity prices but our fundamentals remain strong.
We feel good about where we are today and our future prospects.
We're continuing our growth focus and we see opportunities to profitably invest about $20 billion through the end of this decade.
That investment will allow us to realize significant incremental earnings and cash flow with attractive returns on capital.
In turn our investors benefit from our ability to generate continued and attractive dividend growth.
As we demonstrated today we are committed to delivering consistent and predictable dividend increases across all commodity and market cycles.
You can expect us to fulfill that commitment based on these facts: first we have considerable financial strength and flexibility to support growth enhanced by multiple financing vehicles.
Second we have an expansive asset footprint featuring our first and last mile competitive advantage.
And finally we have a proven track record of delivering attractive returns on capital employed.
So with that let me turn things back over to John so that we can open up the lines and entertain your questions.
Okay Krista we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Craig Shere.
Inc.</strong> A couple of quick questions.
First is there any kind of -- even without recovery which I would agree seems inevitable specially for propane is there any upside in Empress in so far as weak NGL prices might lead to falling processing premiums paid to producers? Yes that's right Craig.
And in fact we're seeing that now.
The issue is that there's really -- nobody is taking on much in the way of volumes right now.
As you know you kind of contract in that business for 12 to 18 months so you don't do it over the long-term.
But yes we've seen extraction premiums in that day market go as low as a couple of bucks $2 $2.50 and as high as $7 or $8 which we've seen historically.
So it's all over the map right now but I think you're right.
Obviously with low propane prices people aren't going to pay those type of extraction premiums.
So we're not even out there in the day market buying that type of stuff unless we can sell it immediately at a profit -- that kind of thing.
So these things do balance themselves out.
You get a normal winter.
You get some crop drying going on and some rationalization out there I think things turn around again.
So you're right that's exactly what -- the first sign of that is declining extraction premiums.
Inc.</strong> Right.
So the more recent results were kind of a double whammy of higher premiums paid and then after that happened lower margins on the volumes coming in.
Again right.
So the gas season as you know is November to October.
The propane season is kind of April to March.
So you're going out there and you're signing up your contracts where you buy the gas i.e.
agree to pay an extraction premium and then you sell it in the -- that April March period.
So you get that time period there where if you see the kind of decline -- Conway prices going from $1.30 in December to $0.50 in July.
That's the exposure you have and as such kind of extraordinary but that's what we've seen.
Inc.</strong> Right appreciate the update there.
One other question you guys have had just stellar historic results with your creative growth projects.
But honestly we've had a couple of hiccups more recently.
A lot outside of anyone's individual control but previously we had announced the cost of runs at New Jersey-New York expansion.
It sounds like that might be close to 11x EBITDA and certainly Bobcat doesn't quite have the economics at least for now as originally envisioned when it was acquired and we still have some growth projects there.
In aggregate on a proportional basis do you have a rough update on the expected economics of the projects under construction in aggregate? Yes.
They're in that 10% to 12% range that we've put out there.
And I think if you took the aggregate projects we're plus or minus 5% on CapEx.
So you're right I mean the New Jersey - New York one is probably the biggest one.
But you're gonna have some wins you're going to have some losses.
I feel good about where we are in things like TEAM 2012.
But in aggregate we're still very much in that 10% to 12% range.
And as you know through last year we read more like 14% on those returns.
But again yes it's a challenging environment out there to put projects into service.
Inc.</strong> Understood.
And on a proportional basis you still feel you're in that 10% to 12% area? Yes sir.
[Operator Instructions]  Your next question is from Chris Sighinolfi.
Research Division</strong> Just want to follow up quickly on some of Craig's -- his line of thought.
With regard to Empress -- I think Pat had made the notion or made the comment that propane prices recover and you start to see a recovery in that business it's sort of been the same throughout the year.
But do you a have a sense of sort of what the aggregate price level of that turnaround is? I mean we see quotes for the U.S.
market hub but what sort of propane price recovery level do you think you need to get to before you start seeing a turnaround on the orange-powered Empress? Well we thought about -- Chris for the whole business if you just do the arithmetic to hit our projection I think that all of our NGL barrel would have to average about $1.60 in the second 6 months of the year.
We're outlooking more like $0.80 for the full year so we're not -- based on the forward curve we're not anticipating a recovery to the kind of level that will get us back to our $1.90 guidance.
We're down probably $0.19 year-to-date as a result of the commodity effect.
And that doesn't fall evenly exactly throughout the year but that's probably indicative of prices stayed about where they are of what the impact would be or what we have to overcome not only at Empress but at our DCP operation to be back to where we were.
And we're certainly not forecasting that at this point.
Research Division</strong> Perfectly clear on that point.
No I wasn't projecting $1.60 NGL for the back half of the year.
Now what I was saying is specifically for Empress you had made the point that a propane price recovery would lead -- I think it was the first operating loss at Empress that I can remember and so as long as you guys have given us the quarterly updates there that business has seemed to produce some operating income not an operating loss.
Granted you did have some write-downs on the inventory but what sort of aggregate -- I guess just a sense -- at what aggregate price level do you need on profane up there in order to get that facility back into profit mode? Well I think you got to get back to -- you're seeing kind of $0.70 type prices now.
I think you have to get back up into the $0.80-plus range.
The reason why its a little bit difficult to just give that price is because remember the extraction premium is the other piece right? If extraction premiums is going to be $2 then you obviously don't need the type of uptick you get on the propane side.
But I think you got to start moving back up over $0.80 to get back into the profitability range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess remaining up in Western Canada you've given some great color in the past on what the LNG export script pipeline looks like.
You had mentioned in your prepared remarks and you're advanced discussions on providing some of the pipeline interconnects up there it seems like every operator with an import terminal here has been talking about converting to export obviously we saw the NEB give a couple of approvals up in British Columbia.
Can you just give a bit more color as to what the nature of the discussions are like today? And maybe what the sticking points are or hurdles on a go-forward? Sure.
Obviously we're in a competitive environment so I'll keep them relative out.
But obviously when people talk about British Columbia they often talked about Kitimat.
I mean our view is yes Kitimat is a great location but it's not the only location.
And I think you've seen the government up there talking about multiple locations and the most typical one that's talked about is Prince Rupert.
So the 1 pipeline that has been announced and again this are all early announcements.
Nobody has made FID or anything it's been to Kitimat.
But we think Prince Rupert is a great location as well so that might give you a little bit of ideas.
I think as you look at some consolidation and folks buying assets in Canada on the upstream side I think that's probably another indication of the kind of folks that are involved.
You've seen CNOOC Petronas et cetera involved.
Those are the types of players -- and I think you're going to see some aggregation.
My view is you probably don't see 4 or 5 built up there you see somewhere between 1 and 3 builds.
So -- and who knows on a longer-term perspective these are all massive pipeline projects for -- not just the LNG side.
I mean they all could be north of -- depending on the size of the plant north of $4 billion or $5 billion.
So you might see some partnerships et cetera.
So that's a little color for you and maybe I'll just leave it there for now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess following real quickly just on the back of something else Craig had touched on.
The New Jersey - New York project obviously we've seen some cost pressure there.
Now that you're sort of targeting that upper-end of the revised range of $1.2 billion -- given that things are under construction we're a little bit more than a year away from planned in-service date.
What -- I guess what additional pressures might cause that cost to inflate further? Or are we pretty comfortable with the $1.2 billion at this point? Well I'm pretty comfortable with that at this point.
I mean the issues that you face now or as you're doing directional drills and you have weather so those are the 2 things that are really technically challenged.
We've done well in getting our lands obviously our approvals.
Equipment isn't a big issue it's relatively small amount of pipe and compressor work so I feel very good about those.
The issue we always have to watch for is what happens on directional drills of which we're doing several of them.
And you share in some of that risk with contractors and so you have to -- if you run into something strange with the directional drill.
Or as I said if it suddenly became rainy for 40 days and 40 nights you can't build pipeline in that type of environment.
So those are the risks that -- I'm not sure there's not really much we can do about those.
We've faced those on our pipelines but we're not -- right now we're on target in terms of our construction activities our land acquisitions and the like.
Your next question comes from Ross Payne.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on DCP Midstream LLC given their reduced profitability.
How do you anticipate dividend in cashback up to Spectra in the next several quarters? It's a function obviously of their net income where they dividend out most of that -- the bulk of that.
So it will all be a function of future commodity prices.
And so that's something that is a little bit hard to handicap.
You can use the rules of thumb that we've furnished for the effect on DCP of changes in commodity prices and be pretty close in terms of how their distributions go up and down to us.
Yes typically thinking about 80% 90% of net income is the way to think about it Ross.
Your next question is from Nathan Judge.
Just wanted to ask in the spread comment that you made about NGL prices do you expect Conway to actually fully make up to Belvieu over the 12 to 18 months or will there still remains a basis? Well I would think you still -- you can have the transportation basis but I would think overtime yes it should close that up.
Again whether that happens as people believe and see the construction completed or whether it takes another 6 8 12 months after construction is there -- you got 3 things you got obviously the supply dynamics and we've seen the supply growth in NGLs consistent with what people thought and obviously we're seeing more supply or less supply than what people thought.
Then you got to have the infrastructure build that's next on the list.
And so that gives you 12 18 months most of that infrastructures built.
And then the next big piece is really the demand side of things of which you're seeing conversions going on those that have Nordic current and then the new fracker facilities -- petrochemical facilities that will be built in that mid-decade.
So it closes as each one of those start to come to bear Nathan.
But I would expect decks the transportation side of things that's where you'll end up.
I don't think you have good examples on the gas site.
Just as a follow-up on that.
And as a there's a lot of pushback on ethane right now [indiscernible].
Is there an update on what you view how that's going to come out? And the influence on NGL especially at the Conway basin? Well yes.
I mean you're seeing a lot from an ethane rejection perspective.
I think you got 2 things when you're still building off feeding off some of the inventory build that we had going on late last year.
But you've seen ethane prices jump by about 20% even since that low in about 6 weeks ago -- I think they're in the $0.35 $0.36 range today if the numbers are right.
And so yes I think you're going to see -- ethane is still going to be the positive feedstock out there.
I think propane is going to continue to be a more valuable export commodity and you'll start to see that happen.
I mean you got 2 big infrastructure plays happening at the end of this year and early next year with respect to -- at the week we'll triple the monthly capacity to export propane.
So I think that will pull up the ethane prices as well.
Actually that's a good segue to what -- my next question.
Do you have any interest in getting involved in the propane exports facility business? Well sure I mean we're in the complete NGL infrastructure world.
There's a couple of other players that have a pretty good jump on us.
But it seems to be a fee-based business which would be attractive if we saw the opportunity to enter that I think we'd like to do that.
I think from a long-term perspective given where our gas supplies enhanced NGLs are in North America and where crude is Brent relative to North American gas prices.
Exports of propane they're going to continue to be a very positive future opportunity.
So yes we would definitely look at it.
Your next question is from Faisel Khan.
Research Division</strong> It's Faisel from Citigroup.
I was wondering if you could -- I think you've talked about a little bit on your prepared remarks on some of the questions.
But the specific sort of cost pressures on the New Jersey - New York expansion is it with labor unit productivity right of ways steel what were the specifics -- what things driving it up? Nothing's changed -- just so we're clear nothing's changed from our outlook at the end of December early January when we came with the new numbers.
A couple of things.
One San Bruno impact the Michigan oil spill impact the new pipeline regulations.
All of which required thicker pipeline more directional drills than we had expected.
And all of those therefore because you got a higher risk as deemed by people on pipeline side.
You got contractors that puts some risk into their pricing as well.
So it's really those pieces and obviously we lost 6 8 9 months on the regulatory front of when we thought we'd have the thing approved.
So it's really past events nothing that we see from a future perspective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the cost to project is still the same as it was 6 months ago? Absolutely correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
I just wanted to make that clear.
And then just -- I think a little more detail in the Sand Hills and Southern Hills sort of construction progress.
You said 2/3 done but where are you? Are you seeing any sort of issues with cost? How is that progressing and when specifically will those projects be online? I'm trying to think about the months that you think it will be online? Yes for sure.
So with respect to Southern Hills.
In terms of Southern Hills we're 65% done the first phase.
And that will -- that piece is going to come into service -- I'm just making sure I give you the right numbers -- through 2Q of '13 but we've got 65% done.
The Sand Hills is going to be -- you get Sand Hills at 65% complete on the first phase.
[indiscernible] That's 65% that's not both phases.
That's the first phase that's coming from Eagle Ford to Mont Belvieu.
And the second phase we're really just getting going in terms of right-of-way acquisitions and for targeting in-service that is the second phase of 2013.
And in Southern Hills it's going to end up being -- Southern Hills ends up kicking in...
Mid-2013.
Mid-2013.
Research Division</strong> But if 65% done it sounds like it could be done a little earlier now or is it still just progressing on time and on budget? We haven't changed the timeframe but your thought pattern is correct.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Dennis Coleman.
Research Division</strong> Just another quick question on Field Services operations if you would.
The change in depreciation your partner disclosed some numbers yesterday.
I'm just sort of wondering what would've the earnings been? Can you give me an apples-to-apples earnings if you hadn't made that change? Do you have that number? Yes sure.
It's going to be about $25 million...
That's our run rate.
There was an item that involved some catch up on a look-back basis so it's about $33 million for us in the second quarter and $25 million ongoing.
Research Division</strong> $25 million ongoing so more of a run rate of just under $100 million for the whole Field Services? Through the year.
Yes that's right.
Your next question is a follow-up question from Nathan Judge.
A quick question on the tax rate it's quite low this quarter.
Are we still on track to meet that 20% -- 29.5% for the full year? Or where do we stand on that? No Nathan we were -- at '11 we were about 29.6%.
But you can knock about 2.6% off that for lower earnings in the year that obviously drives the rate down.
And then about another 2% off that for the lower effective tax rate in Canada.
We're outlooking about 27% for the year down from 29%.
The Canadian tax rate has gone down to about 15% down 1.5 percentage points.
So to the extent that we're getting more of our earnings this year from Canada because of the depressed level of earnings at DCP that helps the mix.
That's why its slower.
Then Nathan if -- obviously if you see an uptick in the commodity prices hence the earnings from DCP then your tax rate is going to go back up.
Right? Because it's solely a function of the proportionality of Canadian and U.S.
earnings.
Sure.
So I'm taking it if -- unless there's a recovery in NGL prices where it really looks at kind of just 27% maybe 28% for the next several years.
Correct.
That's right.
[Operator Instructions] Okay Krista if there are no more questions I just like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
And I would like to remind you that next Tuesday August 7 we're going to be in New York for a breakfast.
So if you haven't already done so please let us know if you will be able to attend.
We look forward to seeing you then.
And as always if you have additional questions please feel free to call Roni Cappadonna or me and we'll help you out.
So with that we'll end the call.
Thank you very much for joining in.
This concludes today's Spectra Energy quarterly earnings.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Wendy and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Spectra Energy Quarterly Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Arensdorf you may begin your conference.
Thanks Wendy.
And good morning everyone and welcome to Spectra Energy's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Review.
I'd just like to start by saying our thoughts are with those of you on the East Coast who may have been affected by Hurricane Sandy.
And we hope you're safe warm and dry and we appreciate your joining us today.
So leading today's discussion will be Greg Ebel our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Pat Reddy our Chief Financial Officer.
Both Greg and Pat will discuss our quarterly results and provide more color around our strategic plans to enhance the value Spectra Energy delivers to its shareholders.
We'll then open the lines for your questions.
But before we begin I'll take a moment to remind you that some of the things we will discuss today concern future company performance and include forward looking statements within the meanings of the securities laws.
Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements.
You should refer to the additional information contained in Spectra Energy's Form 10-K and in our other SEC filings concerning factors that could cause these results to be different from those contemplated in today's discussion.
And in addition today's discussion includes certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC Reg G.
A reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available on our Investor Relations website at spectraenergy.com.
With that I'll turn it over to Greg.
Well thanks very much John.
And good morning everybody.
I want to echo John's comments and concern for those of you in the Northeast recovering from the great storm particularly our customers and employees.
As you've seen from our earnings release this morning Spectra Energy delivered ongoing third quarter results of $179 million or $0.27 per share.
Earnings for the quarter are down year-on-year basically because of weak commodity prices affecting earnings at both DCP Midstream and at Empress.
However our other businesses continued to perform well.
In fact on a commodity neutral basis our year-to-date earnings are very much in line with our expectations.
Even with the current weakness in commodity prices we remain optimistic about longer-term NGL fundamentals.
For example we expect to see growth in propane exports starting later this year and significantly increase ethane demand by the petrochemical sector over the next several years along the Gulf Coast and elsewhere in North America.
So our view tends to be strong fundamentals and expanding market opportunities longer term.
In the near term we expect some commodity choppiness.
But that's nothing we haven't managed through in the past.
And fortunately thanks to the size and strength of the business we're able to maintain our focus on the longer term and take advantage of the significant growth opportunities before both Spectra Energy and our joint venture DCP.
As we mentioned last quarter with the commodity price out environment that exists today it's not possible to meet our $1.90 earnings per share target for the year.
And at this point we anticipate that commodity prices will have a negative $0.50 to $0.55 impact on our 2012 earnings per share.
Of course there are number of other factors that can affect our earnings either positively or negatively.
Importantly our fee-based businesses continued to perform in line with our expectations and our expansion opportunities remained strong and growing.
Our fee-based businesses continue to generate strong earnings and cash flows helping to offset the effects of lower commodity prices.
And that's the beauty of Spectra Energy's business predominantly stable fee-based earnings that provide a great foundation from which to increase our dividend and deliver commodity neutral earnings growth.
As you will recall we expect to deliver dividend growth of at least $0.08 a year through 2014.
Yesterday we announced that our board has approved a $0.10 per share increase in our dividend bringing our total annualized dividend to $1.22 per share.
This is consistent with our overall strategy to provide total shareholder returns through a combination of earnings and dividend growth a strategy that has allowed us to deliver total shareholder return of 60% since January 2010.
We also have a solid roster of expansion projects in execution.
They include about $4 billion in Spectra Energy finance projects and more than $4 billion of expansion projects at DCP Midstream.
So $8 billion in 2012 to 2014 expansion projects are in execution.
And we're starting to see the benefits of projects going into service.
Highlight just a few of those for you: the Philadelphia Lateral will deliver incremental volumes; a firm natural gas supplier along our Texas Eastern system; our TEAM 2012 project is now in service fully subscribed and generating revenues.
The next phase of our ongoing team projects is TEAM 2014.
That project is fully subscribed with a targeted in-service date of late 2014.
And we're making excellent progress on the construction of the New Jersey-New York expansion project and we're on pace to achieve our projected in-service date of fourth quarter 2013.
Hurricane Sandy has certainly cost us a few days of construction but nothing substantial for a project of this size.
In British Columbia the T-North 2012 project is slated for a fourth quarter in-service date.
We'll also complete construction of the Fort Nelson North facility in the fourth quarter followed by an in-service date early in the new year.
And as many of you heard during the DCP Analyst Day in Denver a few weeks ago DCP Midstream will place more than $3 billion of projects into service over the course of just the next 12 months.
Given the magnitude of the opportunities ahead DCP has raised its growth capital investment outlook to $5 billion to $7 billion between 2011 and 2015.
DCP is building and expanding a number of gas processing plants.
They have 4 plants under construction all proceeding as planned.
And when you consider additional opportunities on the drawing board that could mean some 10 or more new plants built over the next few years.
DCP is making great progress on 2 major NGL pipeline projects Sand Hills and Southern Hills.
Yesterday we announced plans to acquire 1/3 in each of these but I'll come back to that in a minute.
With respect to the projects themselves the Sand Hills Pipeline is being phased into service.
Last week DCP announced that the first phase of the project is now online and has begun providing service in the Eagle Ford with direct connection to Mont Belvieu by year end.
The project's second phase the Permian portion of the pipeline has advanced and is now due to be in-service in the second quarter of 2013.
Southern Hills which you'll recall will provide NGL transportation from the mid-Continent to Mont Belvieu has a targeted in-service date of mid-2013.
We originally expected both Southern Hills and Sand Hills to be full within the first 3 years of operation.
That is now accelerated and we expect volumes to come up quicker based on deals completed and pending.
Beyond what's in execution DCP Midstream has about $2 billion to $3 billion in additional development opportunities primarily in gathering and processing and NGL infrastructure projects.
Sand Hills and Southern Hills are outstanding projects.
And yesterday Spectra Energy and our joint venture partner Phillips 66 announced an agreement in which each company will acquire from DCP a 1/3 interest in both pipelines.
The transaction is expected to close by the end of November at which time the 3 companies will each own a 1/3 interest in Sand Hills and Southern Hills and equally fund the remaining capital expenditures.
The total investment by Spectra Energy in the 2 pipelines is expected to be between $700 million and $800 million.
This agreement is a win-win all the way around; the 2 systems are outstanding NGL pipeline projects that will complement Spectra Energy's existing network of natural gas pipelines.
As they're placed into service the pipelines will add attractive stable earnings and cash flow to our results and the agreement also signifies continued strong owner support for DCP ensuring it can continue advancing its attractive growth plans and move quickly on the enormous slate of opportunities before them even when commodity prices are choppy.
You can expect DCP Midstream to retain its standing as the largest NGL producer in the U.S.
and to enhance its gathering and processing position.
You may have seen that Hart Energy recently announced that DCP maintained its ranking as the #1 NGL producer in the country and rose to #2 in natural gas processing.
Across the rest of Spectra Energy we've got a robust pipeline of development projects providing additional opportunities to create ongoing value.
All of these underlines our expectation to invest up to $20 billion through the end of the decade.
And we've made some really good progress on many of these opportunities over the last few months so I'll provide a couple updates.
In the U.S.
Transmission sector we are pursuing $5 billion to $8 billion in development opportunities and are proceeding well with all.
Since we spoke with you last quarter we've embarked on our NEXUS Gas Transmission project with partners DTE Energy and Enbridge.
NEXUS will move growing supplies of Utica and Marcellus gas to markets in the Midwest and in Ontario.
Upon project completion Spectra Energy will become a 20% owner in the vector pipeline a joint venture between DTE Energy and Enbridge.
We're in the midst of an open season for the AIM Project which expands the pipeline capacity of our existing Algonquin system.
The open season which concludes tomorrow is yielding high levels of interest and positive momentum.
We're also pursuing a number of projects that will serve the growing Florida market for natural gas fire power generation and projects like our Renaissance pipeline that can provide a conduit to other Southeastern markets.
In Western Canada we're continuing to pursue opportunities around LNG exports.
And in September we announced plans to jointly develop with BG Group a new natural gas pipeline from the northeast B.C.
to serve BG's proposed LNG export facility in Prince Rupert.
The new pipeline represents our next wave of investment opportunity in B.C.
and allows us to create value by leveraging surplus B.C.
natural gas supplies and facilitating its exports to high demand international markets.
We expect to make a final investment decision alongside BG by 2015.
Underscoring our commitment and focus on LNG infrastructure we announced that Doug Bloom who many of you know is President of our Western Canadian business will now become President of a new Spectra Energy business Canadian LNG and lead our efforts in securing LNG opportunities in Western Canada.
So Spectra is clearly focused on the long term.
We have what it takes to deliver attractive growing shareholder return.
We have the stable and high-performing businesses and a balanced business model focused on long-term sustainable value creation a fact borne out by our commitment to dividend and earnings growth.
Our asset footprint is unrivaled in our sector.
We enjoy that first-mile access to North America's prem and supply regions and last-mile access to expanding natural gas markets.
We operate an industry with strong fundamentals that supports the need for infrastructure.
And our financial strength flexibility multiple financing vehicles also support earnings and dividend growth.
With that let me turn things over to Pat who will walk you through our third quarter financial performance.
Thank you Greg and good morning everyone.
As we announced earlier today Spectra Energy reported ongoing third quarter earnings of $179 million or $0.27 per share compared with $247 million or $0.38 per share in 2011.
As you can see in the first 9 months of this year we've delivered almost 3 quarters of $1 billion in net income.
And year-to-date our EBIT totaled about $1.5 billion.
Let's take a look now at EBITDA which reflects the strong cash generation capacity of our businesses.
Our EBITDA for the quarter was $655 million and year-to-date it totaled more than $2.2 billion.
Our current level of cash generation allows us to fund our CapEx program without issuing equity maintain a solid balance sheet and as we demonstrated yesterday continue to grow our dividend.
Now we'll take a look at our performance by business segment beginning with U.S.
Transmission.
This segment reported third quarter EBIT of $238 million compared with $235 million in the third quarter of 2011.
Quarterly EBIT results reflect increased earnings from expansion projects in line with our expectations and lower operating costs.
These benefits were partially offset by lower processing revenues and as anticipated lower storage revenues.
Now let's turn to our Distribution operations.
Distribution reported third quarter EBIT of $55 million compared with $50 million last year mainly due to higher short-term transportation revenues.
And as we've mentioned before 2012 is the last year of our 5-year incentive regulation framework in Ontario a rate-making approach that has been good for Union Gas and equally important for our customers.
As we near the end of that framework we were required by our regulator the Ontario Energy Board to file for new cost of service rates to be effective in 2013.
Just last week we received the OEB's decision.
While the OEB did approve a small rate increase it wasn't what we had been expecting.
The OEB denied our request to increase equity thickness in our capital structure from the current 36% to our requested 40% and more importantly they removed virtually all of the previous incentives that provided upside opportunities for both the company and our customers.
We are disappointed in the OEB's ruling and will evaluate if and when it makes sense for us to pursue another incentive rate framework going forward.
We will continue to assess the effects of the decision and share more details with you in January.
Let's turn now to Western Canada Transmission &amp; Processing which reported third quarter EBIT of $83 million compared with $119 million last year.
The segment experienced lower earnings at the Empress Natural Gas Liquids business and as anticipated lower contracted volumes from the conventional production areas such as the Grizzly Valley in British Columbia.
These reductions were partially offset by improved results in the Gathering &amp; Processing business driven by higher contracted volumes from expansions in the Horn River and Montney areas of British Columbia.
The majority of the $21 million loss at Empress this quarter is due to lower NGL sales prices predominately for propane and higher input cost.
Unless we see a dramatic upturn in propane prices Empress earnings will remain challenged in the fourth quarter and we could see losses in the $10 million to $15 million range.
I'll now turn to our Field Services segment which represents Spectra Energy's 50% interest in DCP Midstream.
This segment reported third quarter EBIT of $62 million compared with $134 million in 2011.
This $72 million decrease in EBIT was driven by an approximately $90 million reduction due to lower commodity prices.
Year to date the reduction attributable to lower commodity prices was approximately $200 million.
Higher plant repairs and maintenance costs related to asset growth also reduced EBIT.
We had some partial offsets to these reductions including a gain associated with unit issuances by DCP Midstream's MLP DPM and a reduction in depreciation expense as previously reported.
In third quarter 2012 NGL prices for DCP's composite barrel averaged $0.72 more than 40% lower than in the 2011 quarter.
NYMEX natural gas averaged $2.81 more than 30% lower than last year and crude oil averaged $92 about the same as in 2011 but the relationship between NGLs and crude decreased from 58% last year to 33% this year.
DCP Midstream paid distributions of $25 million to Spectra Energy in the third quarter and $175 million year-to-date.
Now let me turn to additional items for the quarter.
Our Other segment reported ongoing net cost of $29 million in the third quarter of 2012 compared with $23 million last year.
Other is comprised primarily of corporate costs including benefits and captive insurance cost.
Interest expense during the quarter was $159 million compared with $157 million in last year's third quarter.
Third quarter income tax expense from continuing operations was $72 million compared with $108 million last year.
The lower tax expense was driven by lower earnings and a lower Canadian effective tax rate.
The effective tax rate reflected controlling interest was 29% in the third quarter compared with 30% in 2011.
At the end of the quarter our debt to total capitalization ratio stood at about 56% unchanged from last quarter.
And last month you may have seen that we issued $500 million in Texas Eastern tenure debt at a rate of 2.8% the lowest coupon in our debt portfolio.
At the quarter's close we had total capacity under our credit facilities of $2.9 billion and available liquidity of about $1.7 billion.
As you've heard this morning we are continuing our growth focus and we see opportunities to profitably invest about $20 billion through the end of this decade.
That investment will allow us to realize significant long-term incremental earnings and cash flow with attractive returns on capital.
In turn our investors benefit from our ability to generate ongoing and attractive dividend growth.
At the same time due to our financial strength and that of our partner Phillips 66 we are able to help DCP capture attractive growth opportunities in advance of further recovery in NGL prices.
As we've demonstrated today we are committed to delivering consistent and predictable dividend increases across commodity and market cycles.
That commitment is grounded in confidence that we have considerable financial strength and flexibility to support growth enhanced by our ability to raise capital at the parent level at our subsidiaries or through our MLP.
We have an expansive asset footprint featuring our first- and last-mile competitive advantage and we have a proven track record of delivering attractive returns on capital employed that are well above our cost of capital.
So with that let me turn things back over to John so we can open up the lines and entertain your questions.
Thanks Pat.
Wendy we're ready for the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ted Durbin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> You're going up $0.10 per share rather than -- I think you talked about doing closer to $0.08 per share.
I guess just talk about how -- anything about the payout ratio going forward and then maybe if we do have any change to tax policy here going to the fiscal changes at the year end? How are you thinking about that as well? Sure.
Well look we have indicated that we will be able to pay at least $0.08 a year through 2014.
We've looked at this each year we saw several key projects coming on late next year in New Jersey New York and obviously with Southern Hills and Sand Hills so we saw an opportunity where we can do a little bit more this year trying to balance out the needs of investors to get total shareholder return and makeup of dividends and earnings.
But I wouldn't suggest that changes the policy on that or that commitment to at least $0.08 a year.
The payout ratio look that's going to move up and down.
As you know Ted in the last several years well we've been targeting 65%.
We never hit 60% given the strong earnings growth.
So I think it's a more longer-term goal to be in that 65% range.
In some years you're going to be above that some years you're going to be lower than that.
With respect to tax policy yes we'll have to see how that shakes out.
I think it's going to be pretty hectic and chaotic from a tax policy perspective.
If they do something on the dividend side and increase the taxes I guess from a relative perspective we'll be treated the same as others.
If they look at overall tax reform which is something that's talked about in the next Congress as well.
There's a lot of talk about lowering corporate tax rates overall and closing a lot of other loopholes so that's going to take into some consideration for us.
So we'll be watching that closely.
If it dramatically changes then obviously you look at everything and say "What's the best -- A everything from structure to results going forward based on the current tax policy?" Research Division</strong> That's really helpful Greg.
Next one for you is just the sell down of Maritimes Northeast assets to SEP I guess I had previously thought you had said that you wanted SEP to really stand on its own.
In other words build its own projects kind of go out and acquire some assets but seems like with the sell down is there a shift in strategy or is this -- should we think of this as more of a one-off when you talk through how you're thinking about the longer-term plan there? Well I hope Ted you'd looked at it as consistent from a strategy perspective.
As you know we've said the first thing we'd like to do is do acquisitions because you've got the SEP occurrence.
The second thing we'd like to do is organic growth and third you'd do drop-downs.
So you've seen us do a combination of all those things from Sand Hills Big Sandy that we bought last year from build-out of East Tennessee a couple of years ago Ozark.
So we've done a combination of all.
We just -- we didn't see anything to buy at this point in time.
There's not a bunch of organic growth but obviously we want to keep the units growing there and the Distribution growing and so we had a good asset one of the good assets we have the drop-down into the MLP and that's the move that we made.
And as you know we've sold half of our positions so should there be a need again in the future that opportunity is there again.
So I don't see it as a change Ted I just -- it's consistent with what we've been trying to do.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's great.
And then just to get up on Pat's comments there on the Distribution business in Canada there can you just remind us of maybe how to think about the ROE that you're earning right now in 2012? It sounds like if you don't get the incentives above that what would you do say in 2013 or beyond if you just turn to your authorized ROE? Yes we will come out with a plan.
But you're right you're not going to see it.
If you just get the authorized ROE you're kind of flat to grow a percentage.
And the authorized ROE is 8.9% is what it looks -- looking like for next year.
It's got a bit of a formula to it.
Now we've typically been able to earn 150 basis points above our regulated rate of return.
So we'll look at that again.
I will say I'm quite disappointed there's a lot of political chaos in Ontario.
They don't have an energy policy.
And the incentives that we had the last 4 or 5 years have really been beneficial to us as the shareholder but also to consumers there.
We've probably saved consumers $100 million.
So yes that's not something I'm real positive about.
It probably goes back to a typical utility type growth i.e.
with the economy.
Your next question comes from the line of Curt Launer with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask 2 related questions.
One is about the performance of the pipelines in the quarter some of the Northeast pipelines have had significant upside relative to volumes for electric generation wanted to know what your experience was within that flat operating income report overall for the pipelines.
And secondly of course because you're so big in New Jersey that comes to mind of course with the horrible hurricane experience that's going on in this area.
Yes well from an earnings perspective it hasn't changed a whole lot.
As you know we have -- 95%-plus of the revenue is from a demand charge whether you've seen an uptick in volume.
We are starting to see obviously more and more power producers use gas obviously and we get a little bit more interruptible but it's not a big bottom line change.
Where we see the opportunity is things like the New Jersey-New York project the TEAM 2012 and 2014 projects and then the AIM project all that is going to be very much I would expect to be driven by natural gas producers but -- sorry natural gas generation providers.
But I wouldn't see a big uptick just because of the demand charge.
What you do see from our expansion projects right across the whole company though Curt is about $0.13 this year just in EPS pickup.
So it's more of the longer-term as opposed to the short-term hiccups that create the opportunity for us in the near term.
Research Division</strong> And any early insight relative to hurricane-related damage in New Jersey? You've got a lot of compressor stations there and the like? Yes really nothing significant.
A few vehicles like others those of you out there know that vehicles were flooded out a bit.
But we basically shut in or shut down operations early in the weekend.
As you know most of our compressor stations would be all gas-driven up there.
It's really our electronics control systems that are electric and we obviously made sure they were up and running from a backup power or battery perspective.
And we saw no interruptions to any of our service.
New Jersey New York obviously that was concerning.
But again we demobbed there and where there was pipe that we are working backfilled the trenches and didn't see any impact there.
The key will be as it sounds like you may be well aware Curt you sound like you might be on a cell phone is that getting electricity back up.
Because obviously you can't do a ton of construction till we get the electricity back and going and I know a lot of people are working on that.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Huang with Carlson Capital.
Greg can you just clarify what you said in the very beginning of the call I just wanted to make sure I understood you said the target's $1.90 everything is going as planned on the non-commodity businesses.
But commodity is a $0.50 to $0.55 hit so without -- in unofficial guidance but you're indicating that's like $1.35 to $1.40 for the year? Yes no I'm not trying to change the guidance Stephen.
I'm just trying to tell you if you just looked at commodity the bulk of that is at DCP then you have about $0.50 to $0.55 but there are things that can be positive and negative in other areas.
So no I'm just trying to give you a little bit of transparency on what we see from the commodity price.
I'm not trying to give you a specific...
Wait did you say $1.50 to $1.55 or is it $0.50 to $0.55 hit from commodity? No $0.50 to $0.55 hit sorry.
Okay.
And then you talked about Empress because it's private.
It went to a loss or could go to a loss in Q4 can you give us some clarity for '13 on how you're thinking Empress turns around or not? Yes well we don't have the same type of volumes contracted so I have to see how that goes forward.
As we've mentioned before you got the contracts that are currently underwater that run off through the middle of next year.
So the objective there and we'll get our '13 numbers out there would be to break the breakeven at least if not make a little bit of money.
But that depends how the contracting season goes over the next -- that's been happening in the last month or so and will happen the next couple of months.
But obviously at least breakeven is what we're looking for Stephen.
Okay.
And then the last question I just wanted to follow up on Ted Durbin's question and related to the Distribution business when you said that if you lose incentive earnings it would be flat utility earnings.
When we look into '13 is there actually a drop off in earnings and then we go flat? Or because you're making 100 bps 150 bps higher or is it basically you're saying that if you lose at '13 will be kind of flat to '12? Yes.
Let's see.
Again part of it depends on see where the fourth quarter goes Stephen and see where we are but you'd probably take it call it a $15 million hit just on all other things being equal in '13 to the Distribution business.
But we'll see what happens.
I mean we're not done the year finalizing our budgets for next year but just straight up on the incentive regulation that's probably what it cost you.
Did you say $15 million or $50 million? Yes -- no $15 million 1-5.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Akman with Scotiabank.
Research Division</strong> But I had a couple of questions on the Canadian business and my first question is to follow up on Empress.
I guess one thing not to be highly profitable there but losing money is another thing.
What are some of the options that you guys can look at with Empress to stem that flow? Well first of all the biggest thing is not enter contracts and we didn't at the time but you had a huge extraction premium in the contracts that we signed up for last year.
That extraction premium has come down substantially.
And at the same time you've seen some improvement in propane prices from what we saw earlier in the year.
So you're not facing the kind of lower cost of market type breakdown that we saw in the past.
So that's one the contracts will be a different mix next year.
Two I think there is some need for some rationalization in the whole Empress area.
As you well know Matt there are multiple players there.
And obviously we've got about 22% or so of the capacity.
But they don't -- that's -- all that capacity isn't needed up there.
So I think we've got to think about is there a way for us to rationalize that.
Those are probably the 2 biggest things.
Of course you take out cost wherever you think you can do as well.
Research Division</strong> And my other question is in and around the Horn River area.
I noticed during the quarter that in Canada and Enbridge announced that they're delaying the in-service state of Cabin because there's just not enough gas flow I guess which means good news for Fort Nelson maybe that you guys remain the only processor up there.
On the other hand there's a lot of gas that's not going to get processed or drilled because of pricing.
So how do you see that on a net basis perspective is it positive because you have less competition or negative because there's less gas being produced? Well I'd say it's positive because we're the sole processor of natural gas in that region.
Of course we've got -- I don't know exactly what their situation was and how they came to that decision.
We obviously have contracts and those are longer term in nature.
In terms of growth for the Horn River you could say that's a negative because there's not another plant that maybe we can build for a few years.
But net-net I'd say at least in the near term to medium term it's positive for us.
As you've seen Matt eco prices have improved lately.
They still got to go some ways but much better than what we saw say 4 or 5 months ago.
So net-net in the near term I'd say it's positive; longer term that's obviously not bullish when somebody decides to not finish a plant.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Sighinolfi with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Sorry to make you or ask you to repeat yourself but just following up on Stephen's question about what you had said in regards to expectations for the year.
I'm operating on a cellphone too so it gets sort of cut in and out.
Were you -- can you just clarify were you saying relative to $1.90 down $0.50 to $0.55 or were you saying $1.50 to $1.55? No what I was saying that if you just look at commodity prices alone so I wasn't trying to change that $1.90.
We've said we're not going to hit that but if you just look at the commodity price impact for the full year it would be $0.50 to $0.55 all other things being equal.
So there are other positives and negatives that can happen in the rest of the business.
So I'm just saying just commodity alone and that's at Empress and at DCP largely a little bit at U.S.
Transmission the impact that we're looking at from commodity price would be negative $0.50 5-0 to $0.55 5-5 against that $1.90.
And Chris for context year-to-date through the third quarter we're down about $0.33 a share versus last year just based on commodity prices.
So just to kind of size it for you.
Research Division</strong> I was just taking a look quickly and just quick back on the envelope but if things that both DCP and Empress are sort of flat in 4Q versus 3Q? And knowing that there's obviously some growth coming on with on liquids on going into service and some of the extraction premium headwinds you were mentioning maybe alleviating with propane price recovery and some of these purchase gas contracts rolling off even if we think about that gas transmission and distribution businesses being also flat year-on-year but it's just a challenge to get down to like I guess what would amount to essentially a flat 4Q number to where we achieved the 3Q $0.27 that's just why I was asking for the clarity.
Yes and I think that's fair and as you pointed out on DCP the commodity hit at DCP in the quarter was probably pushing about $90 million.
But we were down $72 million.
So as you pointed out there are other things against that that play against the commodity side too.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I guess quickly following up on DCP Greg you had mentioned in your prepared remarks and obviously we have read about from your releases but the upstep in growth capital at DCP and also earlier in the year the change in depreciation and so I guess with those 2 changes so more of DCP's cost being cash cost? And then the fact that they're going to plan to spend a bit more capital is there any discussion around altering or moderating the dividend policy out of DCP? No.
I mean we'll -- we've typically looked at dividend out about 90% in net income.
But I will say we look at it every quarter.
So it just depends on the type of growth.
Obviously if you see really extraordinary growth opportunities there and you don't have the similar type growth opportunities at Spectra which currently we do then you might do something a little different.
And remember that's also why DPM is there too.
There's an opportunity to use DPM as a financing vehicle.
So I would -- there's no discussion of changing the policy.
What you do quarter-to-quarter will just depend on the opportunities that may be out there in both segments.
And Chris as you know the payout really is kind of a percentage of their net income and so as their net income is down our distributions are down projected to be down about $100 million this year so that it's a little bit self correcting in that sense.
Your next question comes from the line of Carl Kirst with BMO Capital Markets.
Actually I think most of my questions are hit but maybe just one follow-up on SEP perhaps and the conversation earlier was about the M&amp;A the organic didn't see anything to buy just given the fee-based nature of Southern Hills Sand Hills did that represent an opportunity at all for SEP or do you not want to create noise if you will between Cross Holdings and MLPs? That's not the issue.
I think if you look at many of the projects that we're currently looking at building NEXUS and Open and various pieces obviously the stuff we're looking at in the Southeast those would all be interesting opportunities and have good characteristics for the MLP.
And I think it's fair to say the NGL pipelines would as well.
But we got to get the thing built get it into our own stable here but it's got a night [ph] characteristics.
But that's not -- we haven't made any decision like that at this point in time Carl.
The drop-down piece was really with respect to Maritimes in Northeast.
Really just let's keep the distributions going there and if you've got assets that you can move into that without taking a big tax hit or don't have stable elements to it then you can move those into the MLP if you can't find ways to grow organically or go out and purchase stock.
Okay no.
That's helpful color.
And then maybe one just one heavy -- one touch point on Empress and kind of following up on Matthew's question and just the potential for changing structure.
And even without the rationalization that's needed there that I think everyone believes is there a possibility just for changing the structure of the supply contracts of the extraction premium and moving from sort of fixed fees if you will to say for instance a percent of the frac spread or something like that? I mean is there any conversation afloat in the industry to do that or no? Well everything's on the table right now.
I think there's no doubt about it and as you know the ethane piece of that is already fee-based.
So Carl I guess I would say that everything's on the table.
But I wouldn't say that the discussions on that side are that advanced.
What's a better discussion right now is just rationalizing plant capacity.
And we're still getting good sales volumes out of there.
Our sales volume were actually up Q3-on-Q3 versus down.
And part of that is just a little better pricing -- sorry we saw less pricing which is why the overall result is down.
But there's still a need obviously for those assets.
It's just -- as you know many of those pipes or many of those plants are owned call it 80% 90% by one player and 10% by another.
And then you go to the next trial plant and it's 90% owned by the guy who own 10% in the other plant.
So it's just going to take a little bit of discussion between everybody to get to the right solution.
Your next question comes from the line of Nathan Judge with Atlantic Equities.
I have 2 questions actually.
You -- Greg I think you mentioned that you've now created a new division called Western Canada LNG.
Could you just go into further detail what actually that's comprised of? And is that the future assets for the BG plant and ultimately given some recent developments with BG would you be interested in investing with a liquefaction plant? Well 2 questions.
So first of all it really is a development business.
So it's just that we felt that the opportunity is so big.
As you know the pipeline picked a number somewhere between $4 billion and $8 billion.
So that's obviously a massive opportunity.
And there's more than one pipeline opportunity potentially up there.
So we felt it was important to put a key executive in charge of that.
Now Doug will have a small team.
But there's also a requirement under our agreement with BG that we put some dedicated individuals there.
And the real focus over the next 2 or 3 years is around getting regulatory approvals making sure all the commercial aspects are in place.
And of course working with various stakeholders there and one of the big groups there would obviously be First Nations -- aboriginal folks of which we've had a good experience of dealing with them for more than 55 years in the region so that's really the focus.
With respect to whether we'd invest in an LNG terminal that has not been our choice today.
I guess I would never say never.
But it would have to be a fee-based type structure as you see with pipelines for us to get into that.
And typically in our discussions with the various players there they like to pretty well control all that themselves.
And they're also on the sales side of the product being produced and we would not be on that side.
So it's probably a better fit with what you've seen with the BGs and the super majors and the like actually owning those facilities as opposed us.
I would say never but it would have to be fee-based.
Just also could you comment on storage.
Clearly storage is quite full.
Just in particular as you're looking out for the future what are you seeing on contracts and margins on that business and how does that feed into your product? Yes those -- we've -- as you know we -- at U.S.
Transmission this quarter we had planned to have storage margins down a little bit and we did see that flow through.
Pretty flat on the storage side these days haven't seen uptick or downtick on that front.
We still have contracts that would be out there in the 3 to 5-year period but you obviously got contracts also that come up each year.
So I don't see a big recovery in storage until the middle of the decade call it Nathan when some of the power plants that are being built the gas-fired power plants come on as you start to see more and more possibility on the LNG front because there's big ambient swings on the LNG front and so they may be needing storage so it's really the middle of the decade before I'd see much change on the storage front.
Your question comes from the line of Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
Sorry it's Amit Marwaha here; I'm subbing in for Faisel.
We're kind of between settings here.
Just a quick follow-up with respect to the question on LNG.
Could you give us some type of update or commentary? Sure.
So in September we've signed an agreement project development agreement with BG and that commits to 2 players to move forward in terms of fully scoping out the project and engineering work for example et cetera.
So to make a decision sometime by 2015 and to dedicate parties to be able to do that.
So that's one aspect.
There are other players as you know in British Columbia on the LNG front that we're also in discussions with and pursuing and I won't speak to those -- who those are directly but I think if you'll read any of the trade press out there you'll know who that is.
So the idea was to set up a separate business unit have Doug Bloom head that up not only to corral and bring to fruition the BG opportunity but also look at other opportunities in British Columbia.
So over the next couple of years you will see us pursue that and spend a good chunk of money developing that project which with respect to BG if the project doesn't come to fruition would be refunded to us.
[Operator Instructions] And there are no further questions at this time.
Okay Wendy.
Thank you very much.
With that we'll end the call today.
I want to thank you all -- thank you very much for joining us.
And as always if you have any additional questions you can feel free to call Roni Cappadonna or me.
Thanks for joining us.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Suzette and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Spectra Energy Quarterly Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
John Arensdorf.
Please go ahead Sir.
Thank you Suzette and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
We were with many of you recently in New York providing an overview of our 2013 business and financial plans and we're here this morning to share our 2012 fourth quarter and year-end results.
Since we had an in-depth conversation with you just a few weeks ago we're going to switch things up a little bit today and Pat Reddy our Chief Financial Officer will start us off with a look at our fourth quarter and year-end financial results.
And then Greg Ebel our President and CEO will talk to you about our outlook for 2013 and beyond.
But before we get started I need to remind you that some of what we'll discuss today concerning future company performance will be forward-looking information within the meanings of the securities laws.
Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements.
And you should refer to the additional information contained in Spectra Energy's Form 10-K and other filings made with the SEC concerning factors that could cause those results to differ from those contemplated in today's discussion.
In addition today's discussion will include certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC Regulation G.
A reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available on our website at spectraenergy.com.
With that let me now turn things over to Pat.
Well thank you John and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today as we report on our fourth quarter results and our 2012 performance.
As you've seen in this morning's release Spectra Energy announced $0.32 in earnings per share and $213 million in ongoing earnings for the fourth quarter of 2012 compared with $0.44 and $287 million in the 2011 quarter.
For the year we delivered ongoing earnings of $1.43 per share or $938 million.
Our original 2012 EPS target was $1.90 and reflected commodity prices consistent with the then forward outlook.
While our fee-based businesses performed as expected weak commodity prices dampened our overall results.
The commodity challenges were most pronounced at our DCP and Empress businesses and reduced our expected earnings by $0.52 a share for the year.
In addition as you recall an unfavorable decision rendered by the Ontario Energy Board late in the year affected earnings by about $0.03 a share.
This slide is an overview of fourth quarter EBIT for our 4 reporting segments and Other which houses our corporate cost.
U.S.
Transmission reported EBIT of $249 million compared with $226 million in 2011.
EBIT results reflect increased earnings from expansions and lower operating costs particularly -- partially offset by lower processing revenues and as anticipated lower storage revenues.
Year-end EBIT for this segment was $995 million compared with $983 million in 2011.
Distribution reported fourth quarter EBIT of $93 million compared with $120 million in 2011.
As I've already mentioned the decrease is primarily due to an unexpected retroactive decision from the Ontario Energy Board in November 2012 in which it ruled that certain revenues realized from the optimization of upstream transportation contracts must be refunded to customers.
While we've appealed this decision we did take a $30 million charge for it in our fourth quarter.
Year-end EBIT for this segment was $374 million compared with $425 million in 2011.
Our Western Canada business reported fourth quarter EBIT of $72 million compared with $137 million in 2011.
This segment experienced lower earnings in Empress which realized a $17 million loss for the quarter primarily attributable to the effects of unusually low propane prices.
As expected an increase in Gathering &amp; Processing revenue from expansions in the Horn River and the Montney areas of British Columbia were more than offset in the quarter by a decrease in revenue from the segment's conventional G&amp;P areas where low gas prices have deterred production.
Year-end EBIT for Western Canada was $387 million compared with $510 million in 2011.
Field Services our 50-50 joint venture with Phillips 66 reported fourth quarter EBIT of $58 million compared with $96 million in 2011.
This decrease was mainly driven by lower natural gas liquids prices which were down 36% quarter-over-quarter.
The decrease was partially offset by lower depreciation expense and improved production mix as DCP Midstream increased its NGL production in liquids-rich basins.
Overall this quarter's NGL volumes remain flat compared with fourth quarter of 2011 but volumes are up 5% for the year and we expect that trend to improve.
During the fourth quarters of 2012 and 2011 respectively NGL prices averaged $0.77 per gallon versus $1.20 NYMEX natural gas averaged $3.40 versus $3.55 and crude oil averaged $88 per barrel versus $94.
Year-end EBIT for Field Services was $279 million compared with $449 million in 2011.
DCP Midstream paid cash distributions of $203 million to Spectra Energy during 2012.
Other which is comprised primarily of our corporate governance costs and captive insurance program cost reported net cost of $29 million in the fourth quarter compared with ongoing net cost of $28 million in 2011.
This next slide outlines certain other items affecting our earnings per share.
Interest expense during the quarter was $154 million unchanged from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Fourth quarter income tax expense from continuing operations was $81 million compared to $115 million reported in the 2011 quarter.
The lower tax expense was driven by lower earnings and a lower Canadian tax rate partially offset by favorable tax adjustments recorded in 2011.
This resulted in an effective tax rate for controlling interest of 27.6% as compared with 28.6% in 2011.
At the end of the quarter our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio stood at 56% unchanged from a year ago.
And as you can see we have ample liquidity to carry out our business activities.
When we were with you in New York 3 weeks ago we said we would reconcile our 2012 results with our 2013 plan.
This next slide presents that reconciliation.
We begin with our actual 2012 ongoing net income of $938 million which supports our $1.43 earnings per share and compare that with our 2013 projected net income of $984 million or $1.50 per share.
You can see that the ongoing successful execution of our Spectra Energy expansion program will be our largest contributor to earnings growth accounting for about $70 million of expected incremental EBIT before associated interest expense.
The $30 million increase shown for DCP Midstream is attributable mainly to earnings from expansion projects partially offset by interest expense.
In Western Canada there are 2 primary factors leading to the net $10 million decrease shown here.
First as we've mentioned previously low natural gas prices in Western Canada are driving reductions in SET West conventional G&amp;P business.
The current low gas price environment including a few days in 2012 below $2 have led producers to scale back.
Once AECO prices strengthen we expect producers to renew their G&amp;P contracts with us or to use more interruptible services and we'll see a rebound in revenues.
Second we experienced a $49 million loss at Empress in 2012.
And as we've said we expect Empress to break even in 2013.
There are many components in our miscellaneous EBIT category with one of the most significant items relating to the loss of about $20 million in EBIT at U.S.
Transmission from the recent drop-down of our interest in Maritimes &amp; Northeast U.S.
to Spectra Energy Partners.
In addition lower storage revenues resulted in a reduction of about $20 million at U.S.
Transmission.
The increased interest expense shown here relates to our borrowing requirements for funding our growth.
And finally the primary drivers for the approximate $35 million increase to earnings from taxes relate to a $12 million benefit from higher 2013 tax depreciation on our regulated expansion investment in Canada and a $19 million tax reserve release in 2013 due to anticipated passage of favorable tax legislation in Canada this year.
During our January meeting we laid out the 2013 earnings expectations for Spectra Energy's business segments.
We heard from many of you that it was difficult to see the incremental earnings from our cumulative investment in expansions and acquisitions at U.S.
Transmission.
This slide is intended to help you understand the various dynamics around U.S.
Transmission's EBIT growth.
Since 2007 we've invested about $4 billion in expansions and acquisitions at this segment.
If you were to assume a return on capital employed of about 11% which is in the middle of our targeted 10% to 12% range you would see an increase of about $440 million over and above our 2007 EBIT of $894 million all else being equal.
However we're expecting 2013 EBIT at U.S.
Transmission to be almost $150 million more than it was in 2007.
The approximate $300 million difference is due to 3 key developments.
First and most significant are the effects of the changing storage environment.
Our 2013 plan has storage EBIT at about $100 million less than one might expect given the lower margins and the lack of seasonal volatility which have dampened returns from our storage expansions.
It's worth noting that at the time we acquired the Bobcat Storage Development we told you we were investing for 2015 and beyond.
And while storage margins remain soft in the near term we're confident that those margins will improve especially as PowerGen conversions LNG exports and industrial demand continue to ramp up along the Gulf Coast and in the Southeast U.S.
markets during the mid to latter part of the decade.
When robust demand for storage returns we will be the premier provider of high deliverability storage on the Gulf Coast.
We've also experienced about a $90 million reduction in processing revenues compared with 2007.
Hurricanes Katrina and Rita on the Gulf Coast damaged many of the third-party processing plants in the region.
We were able to utilize our contracted processing capacity during this time period to process significant volumes for others at higher commodity prices.
And that resulted in a temporary boost to our processing revenues.
Our processing EBIT for our 2013 to 2015 plan is in the $60 million to $65 million per year range which we view as a more sustainable run rate.
Additionally Spectra Energy formed Spectra Energy Partners in mid-2007 with a significant drop of assets including 100% of East Tennessee 50% of Market Hub Partners and 49% of our interest in Gulfstream.
We subsequently dropped another 49% of our interest in Gulfstream and 50% of our interest in Maritimes &amp; Northeast U.S.
These asset drop-downs from U.S.
Transmission to SEP have resulted in a reduction of EBIT at U.S.
Transmission since part of the EBIT now goes to noncontrolling interest at SEP.
The change in noncontrolling interest between 2007 and our 2013 estimate is about $70 million.
While these drops have lowered the EBIT at U.S.
Transmission they've been beneficial to shareholders as they have provided cash that has been redeployed in our growth investments and to support our growing dividends.
In addition to the major elements that I've just described there are a variety of other less material factors affecting earnings growth over this time frame.
For example you may recall that the way we treated project development costs in 2007 resulted in about $25 million of additional earnings that year that are not included in 2013.
And as you would expect we've had some minor increases in O&amp;M over this 6-year period as well.
While you can never say with certainty that we're experiencing a low point in storage margins or that processing revenues cannot decline further we believe that the most significant decline should be behind us.
So we are delivering earnings at or above the returns we expected on our pipeline expansion projects.
And those healthy returns give us confidence in our ability to deliver on the more than $25 billion in growth projects that we see over the rest of the decade and deliver significant returns in dividend growth to investors.
Now let me turn things over to Greg who will update you on our outlook for 2013 and beyond.
Well thanks very much Pat and good morning everybody.
It was good to see so many of you in New York recently and look forward to chatting with you on the conference circuit in the next few days and weeks.
As you heard in New York we're excited about the array of growth opportunities ahead for the company and we're hard at work delivering on our priorities for 2013 and beyond.
Since we outlined those for you in pretty good detail just a few weeks ago I'll focus on some noteworthy highlights and then we'll get to your questions.
Starting with the power of the portfolio.
This map you've seen in the last 6 years and it's grown substantially since we've been talking to you I think gives you a really good sense of the scale and scope of our asset position that's growing.
Our expansion portfolio provides us with really a great foundation which continues to grow as we expand our market reach.
Our assets continue to connect the major producing basins in both the United States and Canada with the growing demand markets in North America and they interconnect with substantially all the other major pipelines in North America.
These dynamics and our ability to serve our customers' supply and demand needs affirm the value of our assets over the long run.
Separately and importantly DCP Midstream enjoys premier positions in substantially all of the major U.S.
basins being actively developed.
DCP Midstream will place more than $3 billion of projects into service over the next 12 months alone.
And given the magnitude of these opportunities DCP has raised its growth capital investment outlook to $6 billion through 2015 allowing it to grow volumes and earnings nicely.
We have a great portfolio mix and as you've seen we're able to use the sum of our business lines to navigate successfully through market cycles and overcome any headwinds.
Equally exciting we're expanding our footprint on this map into the growing crude oil pipeline sector with the addition of the Express-Platte system which we believe will be a great acquisition from day 1.
We expect to close on the acquisition during the first half of this year and expect it to be immediately accretive to earnings with expected full year 2014 EBITDA of approximately $145 million and 2014 EPS accretion in the $0.03 to $0.05 per share range.
This slide here gives you a snapshot of the momentum occurring across our system momentum driven by more than $25 billion in growth opportunities through the end of the decade.
We're confident that it will execute on a significant number of these and we're not stopping there of course.
Between now and the decade's close we expect to identify and pursue a host of new opportunities that haven't even made this map yet.
We discussed our major projects in New York so I won't go through each again but rather reiterate where the growth is coming from and how we're moving forward.
In U.S.
Transmission we anticipate more than $10 billion of investment in this segment.
Our Northeast projects move Marcellus and Utica supply to the region's high-growth markets and include our New Jersey - New York expansion TEAM 2014 OPEN AIM and NEXUS.
Growth in the Southeast continues to be driven by huge increases in incremental gas-fired generation over the next few years.
Examples of our response to that demand can be seen in the expansion of East Tennessee's pipeline to serve Eastman Chemical our Renaissance project which will link prolific supplies on Texas Eastern to growing power generation and distribution markets in Georgia Alabama and Tennessee and our pending response to the Florida Power &amp; Light proposal to build a third major natural gas pipeline into Florida by 2017.
Gulf Coast demand which we estimate at 10-plus Bcf a day is being driven by multiple market segments both domestic and international including LNG exports gas liquids facilities power generation the industrial and petrochemical research and of course exports to Mexico as well.
Our Western Canadian business has $7 billion of expansion growth on their horizon.
SET West sits in the midst of 4 world-class gas resources: the Horn River the Montney the Cordova and the Liard.
The growing gas supply environment in Western Canada is attracting significant international investment with total investment in British Columbia natural gas sector alone projected to reach $250 billion over the next 20 years.
Much of that investment likely will be directed towards the development of LNG terminals and pipelines to serve those.
And we're excited to be a participant in this market.
Our participation with the BG Group to construct a major pipeline connecting our northern transmission systems to BG Group's LNG terminal to be located at Prince Rupert will drive significant opportunities for capital growth.
LNG players like BG and others will stimulate significant E&amp;P development in the coming years and that will require incremental Gathering &amp; Processing services.
As Spectra Energy is the service provider for 60% of the G&amp;P market in British Columbia today we're confident we can capture a significant portion of this additional G&amp;P activity.
So as you can see our business plan remains solidly on track.
We're expanding our impressive portfolio of assets and we're continuing to demonstrate our commitment and capacity on all fronts through various commodity and business cycles rewarding investors with steady reliable dividend growth and accentuating our value proposition with the use of our MLPs and our C corp.
Today we've got a strong and growing base of assets on the natural gas side of the business.
To that base we're adding investments in NGL pipelines and a new crude oil segment.
Combined we see an attractive investment opportunities landscape of at least $25 billion through the end of the decade.
And this growth builds on our record of being an early mover in high-growth market cycles and creates significant upside potential for Spectra Energy and our investors.
These growth platforms with assets like Express-Platte Sand Hills and Southern Hills create a catalyst for further advancement of our NLP strategy and enhance our general partner position.
We see significant potential to increase shareholder value through the strategic use of our MLPs to further grow the Spectra Energy asset portfolio.
As we stated before both SEP and DPM are key components of the overall financial strength and flexibility of the company.
Our corporate structure with a strong parent and GP position allows us to grow strategically by using the lowest cost of capital and the most efficient vehicle from a tax perspective for accretive acquisitions in addition to generating cash to reinvest in our asset platforms.
This ongoing cycle of cash generation and reinvestment enables us to continue to grow our dividend and deliver attractive shareholder returns over the long run.
With that I'll turn things back over to John and we can take your questions.
Okay.
Suzette we're ready for questions from those joining us today.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Ted Durbin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just want to start here with Western Canada.
Volumes were down pretty significantly on the pipelines on the processing.
I'm wondering if you can just give us some more detail on what you're seeing on the conventional declines.
I mean obviously you've put some capital in there but you're still seeing volumes down.
How are you seeing that shape up for 2013? And then as well there you've talked in the past about maybe getting some solutions for Empress.
Maybe you can talk about what solutions that might be.
Maybe with capacity rationalization amongst the industry any progress there? Sure.
So I think as Pat mentioned we see really -- the impact from the conventional side of things in Western Canada for 2013 is about $50 million $55 million.
Now you obviously have got growth in the unconventional side which is helping to offset some of that.
But we'll have to see how things develop in '14.
There's always some risk that you could continue to see some of that.
But different than on the U.S.
side where often you see G&amp;P natural declines that's not what's happening in Western Canada; it's pure commodity response.
So with gas now I think AECO is running around $3 maybe $3.10 and much closer to what you'd see on NYMEX running $3 $3.35.
A more traditional kind of 10% spread.
You should see some of that drilling come back.
And in fact a lot of that might be on the interruptible side.
On the pipeline side I wouldn't -- that's not terribly concerning to me.
As you know same as on the U.S.
side that that's a fee-based business and contracted up so less concern.
With respect to Empress couple of things.
Everything's on the table Ted in terms of looking at Empress you're right there's too much capacity up there so is there a way to appropriately rationalize the overall asset base up there amongst all the various players that's something we're looking at.
As we've said before Empress is not a particularly strategic item for Spectra Energy.
And then lastly obviously a different contract makeup this year.
I think as we shared with you last year we had a pretty large buildup of contacts that ended up being out of the money if you will last year and those have run off substantially.
And so we don't see the same type of impact.
Things like write-downs which I think ran around $15 million last year we don't have that.
So I feel pretty good about our ability to claw our way back on Empress this year.
But everything's on the table from a rationalization perspective.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And if I could just -- on the extraction premiums what actually was baked into the budget there as well as what propane prices do you have in there to get you back to breakeven? Yes.
Well the propane prices aren't much different from what we see in the rest of the company so think about that 80% type range.
Extraction premiums don't budget on that basis because the extraction premium is only one element of this and it moves up and down.
But you really got the impact of what's the price of the gas and the output on that front.
So it's a little different than what you might see elsewhere that's why we didn't give an extraction appraisal last year.
What I will say though is the extraction premiums have come down substantially from what we saw in 2012 Ted.
So you're seeing a fair bit more rationalization in itself if you will about what deals make sense for people as to people expecting it -- as opposed to people expecting that NGL prices just go up forever.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Got it.
And then last one for me is over on Field Services we also saw some declines in the Gathering &amp; Processing volumes sequentially year-over-year.
You've been bringing up some new processing types.
I guess what are you seeing there? Is it just declines on the conventional production? Is it ethane rejection? Maybe a little bit more color there.
Yes pretty flat.
Ethane rejection ran around 15 000 barrels a day last year.
We're actually seeing if you look on the -- volumes will be up this year and NGL volumes will be up 10% or so that's what we're seeing.
You're right driven by both some new facilities coming on service but also just the growth in the sector.
I think we're pretty flat on throughput last year.
I think maybe you're right Ted 2% or 3% that was down.
But the NGL production in 2012 was up 5%.
As I said you're probably going to see double that in 2013.
Your next question comes from Faisel Khan with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the details on Slide 7.
I was wondering if you could help explain a couple of things.
The storage decline from '07 to '13 the $100 million roughly that's not all Bobcat is it? And what other parts of the portfolio is that coming from? Well let me be clear.
That's not really a decline.
All we're saying is that relative to the capital we put to work you might have expected so I would say that's a loss in opportunity cost really Faisel.
So I wouldn't look at it from a decline.
As you know the overall EBIT for the business storage represents 5% or 6% of our overall EBIT.
So that's not a decline from where we were.
So yes that's a good point.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Okay.
And then the drop-downs of SEP the $70 million what exactly is that? Is that just related to the dilution effect of dropping the asset in and I assume there'll be offsets once you drop an asset into SEP there'll be benefits reinvesting that cash flow within the C corp or expanding SEP.
So if you could elaborate a little bit on that that would be great.
Correct.
So when you drop down -- so we own call it 65% of SEP.
So if we drop down an asset we're only going to retain 65% of the earnings associated with that at the EBIT line correct? So that's what you're seeing there.
So as we drop down so this is -- assuming we own 70% of SEP if it was $100 million -- or assuming they owned -- we only own 30% -- we would've given up $70 million.
So that's all that is.
But you're right below the EBIT line there you get cash so obviously reducing your interest expense.
It's mildly accretive or flat to an EPS perspective on a cash basis but then you go and reinvest that business.
So as long as you keep dropping down businesses into the MLP the entity above is actually going to lose earnings at the EBIT line but pick up cash and potentially EPS below the EBIT line.
Is that clear? Research Division</strong> Yes but net-net over time as you do these drop-downs in SEPs it's not dilutive to earnings over the long run is it? I mean -- yes okay.
No absolutely not.
This is just comparing EBIT so that we're -- it was basically to create an apples-to-apples comparison.
Research Division</strong> Yes I got you.
And then just on the previous slide that G&amp;P decline I think Pat you were talking about the $55 million in sort of declines year-over-year.
Did you say that that was related to contract renewal or was that related to just volume decline from the legacy assets that are under lines of lease? Yes it's really contract renewals.
You see some declines but it's really the contract renewals where you've got -- and obviously guys aren't going to drill up $2 gas versus what they might be able to get in the U.S.
Or the other piece is you've got to remember some of that gas up in that neck of the woods is a lot drier so as you know everybody is going after liquids-rich gas.
So as we move down into places like the Montney in places like that with more liquids-rich gas those areas end up coming back.
But in the northern areas closer up near the Horn River where it's drier you're seeing people decide not to renew contracts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Were these contracts that are -- like 1-year 2-year 3-year? What kind of tenure are these contracts in? They can be all different.
We've got -- you've got everything from -- just like on the pipelines you've got annual contracts that come up for renewal.
So they could be anywhere from 1-year contracts to 5- or 10-year type contracts that came up for renewal.
Now what we did see a pickup in last year to help -- and again this year I would expect we'll see that -- is people as gas prices come back pick up more interruptible.
Obviously interruptible is at a higher rate but it's just a little bit more uncertain.
Now as you start to fill up your plant then people want to sign up long-term contracts.
This is pretty typical for Western Canada over a 5- or 6-year period.
You see the buildup you see the come-off you see the buildup and it's got nothing to do with the gas not being there which as I've mentioned to Ted's question is a little bit different than what we see in the U.S.
where you may see complete declines in fields.
And your next question comes from Craig Shere with Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</strong> Two questions on the GP/MLP front.
First post the plan the drop-downs through 2014 with Express-Platte DCP pipeline interests and the rest of Maritimes Northeast U.S.
Can you highlight what organic Spectra growth CapEx projects would be structured as independent assets with fully loaded cost basis that could be the next round of incremental drop-downs further out? Well I don't want to get too far ahead of our ourselves.
But we've got -- I think important to point out Craig we've got $2 billion-plus in just the assets that you've mentioned Sand Hills Southern Hills Express-Platte and if you did the other part of Maritimes &amp; U.S.
I guess longer term I'd look at assets -- firstly you've got to take the Canadian assets out even things that we build up there that are generally not qualifying or get captured at the border.
So the type of projects and this isn't definitive but probably the best example would be an expansion into Florida which as you know that would be a brand-new project that created the opportunity.
We would look at things and it all depends on how it's structured things like Renaissance and NEXUS as opportunities as well.
So those are probably and if you add up all those those are huge entities in themselves.
I would also point out from an MLP perspective that the NGL pipelines are going to ramp up over a 2- or 3-year period.
So you've got -- for lack of a better word -- good organic growth And I'd expect the same thing on Express-Platte as well.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And Greg at the last meeting in mid-January you really highlighted the opportunities from these drop-downs in the GP interests both for SEP on that new inventory of drop-downs and also at DPM.
And I wonder if you'd consider if the market just doesn't catch on to this if you'd consider at some point sponsoring GP/MLP IPOs to help the market appreciate the value of these interests if it doesn't get reflected in your share price over the next couple of years? Well obviously we're here to create shareholder value so whatever is going to do that we'll definitely look at that from a long-term perspective.
But Craig I don't want to get ahead of ourselves.
Let's get the drops done that make sense that serve SEP and serve SE at the same time.
We have a very small GP position at this point in time but let's take a look at things down the road.
When we get the call it $2 billion or so dropped then we can have a discussion at that time.
I think you're already seeing some of the value in what we've discussed both in the response since call it mid-January.
SEP's done pretty well.
I think SE will move up here.
You've got some headwinds on the commodity price that might be masking that a little bit.
But I believe the market is smart.
They look at this we have not had similar-type opportunities as maybe some others have had to do drop-downs and now I would suggest we have a better backlog of drop-downs than many other have.
So I think the market will recognize that.
Your next question comes from Curt Launer with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up a bit with Ted's first questions relative to the Canadian business and try to think about it in the terms of when will the lines cross? In other words it seems like the propane price impact caused Empress to have a much bigger loss than originally anticipated last year and now you're talking about breakeven.
At what point in pricing should we look at -- many of us believe propane prices will improve this year for various reasons exports and the like.
So what are we looking for in terms of Empress turning back into that profitability that goes beyond the break-even projection you're talking about? And secondarily another similar issue in Western Canada I guess it seemed a bit of a surprise that Horn and Montney did very well but the conventional production offset the growth.
What should we be looking for in that regard so that that business begins to contribute a bit more than what it is right now? Yes.
Let me start with Empress.
So I think as we look at this and look at the contract structure and what we're seeing today on extracts and premiums and as you will well understand Curt it's dynamic.
But I would say if you get propane in that $0.90 range we're making money all other things being equal right? So the extraction premiums are important here.
But the $0.90 range I think is where Empress does pretty well.
I would say that is not the only issue with respect to Empress.
The Empress issue is more of I would say the rationalization of overall capabilities up there not just our plant but the other plants.
You still have a situation where you've got too much capacity for not enough volume.
So if you could figure out a way to rationalize the capacity the issues with respect to extraction premiums help to look after themselves.
And I agree with you.
You're going to see NGL prices move back up.
And as I said if you get propane in the $0.90 range it's pretty good.
And remember -- and we'd make money.
And remember ethane's done on a fee basis up there.
So ethane is not a big factor where it is in the United States business.
So that's the Empress piece.
With respect to the rest of Western Canada one thing I would remind you is that we've booked a lot of earnings with respect to Horn River and Montney development projects as we've been building them that's the way the contracts work.
So you have been getting that earnings growth there.
There's not a ton more than can happen on the unconventional side from our perspective where the price is.
I mean sure maybe you can have a similar type hit for a year or so but I think you're going to see that turn around so that you will see expected growth across the entity I think -- across the Western Canadian entity.
I think the other factor out there which will be very positive on the processing side will be as these LNG facilities start to get in place you're going to need more processing capability to take that on.
And again as we've got 60% of that processing capability today in some of these LNG facilities I bet you and I both know they're not all going to go.
But even with a couple of them going you're going to more than exceed the current capacity of gas production in British Columbia today.
And nothing's going on in Alberta.
So gas production in British Columbia today and that's going to need processing.
And that's where I see some real opportunities for us over the longer term.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's great stuff.
I have one other brief one if I could.
Spectra Energy Partners had a higher maintenance CapEx this quarter and the coverage ratio dipped below 1.
Can you comment on what drove that maintenance CapEx number? You know what Curt I can't off the top of my head.
It was -- I'm speculating I bet it'd be East Tennessee but I promise you at the call in about 2 hours on SEP that question will get answered for you.
Sorry to punt but that's all I'll tell you.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
Actually just a couple of cleanup questions and not to keep focusing on Western Canada but a lot has been asked and answered.
The one question as we try and sort of figure out sort of the trends of the conventional decline is there a way to characterize of say for instance guidance of the $380 million how much would be sort of in that conventional G&amp;P bucket versus the unconventional Westcoast Empress et cetera? Kind of in a sense of as people are wondering as we go forward in 2014 like if under the case we just don't have gas prices recover are we basing out or is there still a base that could still erode? Carl as we looked at this -- as we prepared our plan just a little over $200 million of EBIT associated with those kinds of supplies I mean in a scorched-earth situation if nothing got renewed that's the bread basket.
But we're not -- those roll off over time as Greg said and we're certainly not predicting -- as we talked with you guys a year ago coming into '12 we said that the roll-off would be $65 million.
This year it's $55 million incremental.
And we expect it would be substantially less in the next couple of years more like incrementally more like in the $20 million range.
So things would have to -- it really would have to stop with no renewals for all of that to go away.
I think the other thing to think about Carl is that with the investments we've made out there the $1.5 billion or so as those get fully loaded here as we finish up those projects there's an excess of a couple of hundred million dollars worth of EBIT related to those projects.
And the other thing to remember is that 30% 35% of Western Canada is the pipeline business.
So that's not impacted obviously by the G&amp;P side of things.
Right.
That's great color.
And then lastly and this is just kind of more from a minutia  standpoint or perhaps we've talked a lot about high level of the year maybe just a quarterly shape when I take a look at the numbers it looks like the drag on Empress for instance in the fourth quarter was about similar to the third quarter.
And so what I'm wondering is to the extent that there's a sequential EBIT decline is that coming from an acceleration of the conventional G&amp;P.
And I guess where the ultimate question is of the $55 million drop in G&amp;P for 2013 is that something that you think happens ratably over the year? Or does it get -- or are we seeing an acceleration where it's more front-end loaded or how should we think of that? Yes.
I think it's -- think about it pretty even because remember this is -- we get contract renewals just like you do in the pipeline side so late in last year you start getting the view on this so it starts to kick in.
So I wouldn't see it as back-end loaded.
Maybe this will help you.
In the overall EPS think about $1.50 split 60% between first and fourth quarter fourth quarter with a little weather is usually a little better but 60% in those 2 quarters and 40% in Q2 and Q3.
Maybe that's the way to think about it Carl.
Your next question comes from Chris Sighinolfi with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on Craig's questions on the drop-down strategy.
I'm just curious if the initial SEP drop-downs are traditional in the sense that they're underappreciated newly constructed or purchased assets.
You've outlined a couple of the candidates there.
And SE's limited partner interest gets diluted down by that process I'm wondering about the longer-term appetite of maybe marrying these types of drops with drops of the legacy assets for unit exchange in order to keep growing GP cash flow.
I appreciate your comments about not getting ahead of ourselves but just wondering about sort of longer-term strategy.
Yes I think that's fair enough.
Again if it's going to create a real tax problems for us we don't have some of the NOLs that some other players have had historically.
And then that doesn't seem to make sense.
But obviously as you've seen us in the past we have looked at drop-downs of assets that we've held for some period of time.
The biggest challenge for us has been the really low-tax-basis assets where the only way to avoid it is if you take back all units.
And then obviously that's not going to create the kind of cash benefit for us to reinvest in the business although you'd still get cash from the units.
So definitely open to it but again I'm expecting between the $2 billion-plus we have some of these other projects the business development teams are hunting that we get to -- we reload the drop-down capabilities with a long-term good backlog of drop-downs that don't have us facing that tax issue and doing something that might be tax-inefficient as opposed to doing things that are tax-efficient through the MLP.
And Chris this is Pat.
As Greg said from a sequencing standpoint we've committed to thinking about a 2-year time frame for the $2.25 billion of assets we've either acquired or are in the process of acquiring.
And then beyond that we're developing projects like OPEN NEXUS Renaissance AIM.
And while it's not clear at this point that they could all be structured in a way that they could be severed from the Texas Eastern mainline proper and dropped down that's certainly something that we'll do if we can.
And so that would sort of -- both of these projects have current costs without depreciation that could come on maybe beyond that 2-year time frame.
So while you don't rule out what you asked about we may not need to to keep the growth growing.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
I guess one final cleanup question for me and I'm sorry if I missed it do you have an updated timeline on Express-Platte closure? You still targeting I think mid-year was what you had said originally? Yes we're still targeting mid-year.
Obviously it's important to us to get it done even sooner than that if possible.
Liked the responses we've heard out of federal governments on both sides of the border.
And obviously if we can get it done early we won't be delaying.
So I think you won't be surprised I don't think I'm telling any tales out of school here looking at the General Counsel about -- we've got the federal government approvals in place here in the United States so that's good from an FTC perspective.
So we'll keep moving down that trail and if we can do it quicker Chris that's obviously a good thing for everybody.
Your next question comes from Ross Payne with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> First question is on the U.S.
Transmission side.
The short-term rates are those increasing or staying about the same as they've been in the last couple of years in terms of the percentage of the contracts? And second of all what direction if they are down how much are they down year-over-year? Ross this is Pat.
We've had 98% renewal so we're not really adding much to our base of interruptible.
And the rates are holding steady.
We're not really seeing declines.
It's pretty constant.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the Florida pipeline can you guys talk about how you're positioned relative to maybe some of your competitors for being able to bid on that? Yes I think we're in a great spot.
I mean look there's 2 pipelines that go in there now and we're one of them obviously in terms of with Gulfstream.
We've got a good partner in Williams and that's been a relationship over a considerable period of time.
We have good relationships with the customer and I'll even say customers because I think that's an important issue.
So I like our position frankly and we're going to go at this one hard.
As you know it is a great customer it's not driven by demand per se; it's driven by a change-out to gas-fired generation which Florida has responsibly pursued for a long time.
So I like where we are relative to others.
I like where we are relative to our partner.
And I like where we are given the history of how we've operated in the state to date.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And also BG's position on the LNG facility out of Prince Rupert is it -- can you speak to how that project is moving forward relative to the one in Kitimat with Shell? Yes absolutely I think well BG we've had discussions with them recently.
And obviously those are ongoing full tilt.
They're very keen on the project.
We are only project in Prince Rupert that has filed its environmental assessment documentation with the provincial government there so that's moving forward.
And I think you'll expect to see as we said that kind of 2015 '16 time frame for FID which should be in the same time frame as what I'm hearing on the Kitimat side.
I think the interesting thing is that they still have multiple projects going on there and you probably -- I think the latest count might be up to 7 projects between Prince Rupert Kitimat Port Alberni a whole variety of places.
And you'll definitely see some rationalization but BG's got a good track record in being able to bring these projects forward and I expect you'll see some other players step up too and that will create an opportunity for even stronger partnerships going forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And my final question is can you guys give us an indication of where you think the debt number is going to end up at the end of the year and/or what your debt-to-EBITDA metric might look like? Certainly.
We ended the year at about 56% debt to cap and we're looking to add -- we're going to do about $2 billion of financing about $900 million for maturities so about $1.2 billion net.
And that would -- our FFO to interest would still be just under 4x call it 3.7x and our FFO to total debt in the mid-13s so about the same.
I guess what I would say Ross is that each year we've talked about where our debt's going to be and we've never hit it.
We always seem to have more cash generation than expected.
Interest expense is always lower than we expected and our credit metrics seem to end -- which is the right way to be.
We're conservative on that approach but feel pretty good about where we are.
And those metrics don't include the effect of any drops which could help us by raising equity at SEP.
Thank you.
There are no further questions in queue.
Okay.
Thank you very much for joining us today.
We appreciate it.
And as always if you should have additional questions please feel free to contact either Roni Cappadonna or me.
Thanks again for joining us today.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Polly and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Spectra Energy First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
John Arensdorf sir you may begin.
Thanks Polly.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Spectra Energy's first quarter 2013 earnings review.
Thanks for joining us today.
Leading today's discussion will be Greg Ebel our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Pat Reddy our Chief Financial Officer.
Both Greg and Pat will discuss our quarterly results and provide more color around our strategic plans to enhance the value Spectra Energy delivers to its shareholders.
We'll then open the lines for your questions.
But before we begin let me take a moment to remind you that some of the things we will discuss today concern future company performance and include forward-looking statements within the meanings of the securities laws.
Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements.
You should refer to the additional information contained in Spectra Energy's Form 10-K and in our other SEC filings concerning factors that could cause these results to be different from those contemplated in today's discussion.
In addition today's discussion include certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC Reg G.
A reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available on our Investor Relations website at spectraenergy.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Pat.
Well thank you John and good morning everyone.
As you've seen from our earnings release Spectra Energy delivered solid first quarter results of $340 million or 40 -- or $0.51 per share.
A couple of key takeaways from the quarter.
Results were in line with our expectations.
You'll see that we have a new liquids reporting segment which includes not only the Express-Platte System on which we closed in mid-March but also our 1/3 ownership interest in the Sand Hills and Southern Hills NGL pipelines.
And as Greg will discuss more fully in a moment we've initiated the first phase of our $2-plus billion drop-down of the Liquids segment assets.
You would have seen the press release on that last evening.
Then we are making steady progress toward our goal of capturing $25 billion in growth projects by the end of the decade.
Now let's take a closer look at the components of our earnings this quarter.
I'll begin with U.S.
Transmission which reported EBITDA of $266 million compared with $271 million in 2012.
While we experienced gains from Texas Eastern expansions during the quarter they were more than offset by lower storage and transportation revenues consistent with the outlook we discussed with you in January.
As we said then we expect to see lower storage results throughout the year as compared to last year due to current market dynamics.
Even though EBIT is down slightly in this segment compared to last year U.S.
Transmission is performing on plan for the quarter.
Let's take a look at now at Distribution which reported first quarter EBIT of $168 million compared with $151 million in 2012.
The increase is mainly due to higher customer usage as compared to last year when weather was warmer than normal.
We also benefited from increased revenues from the Union Gas 2013 rate increase which went into effect on January 1.
Partially offsetting these favorable variances is the impact of last year's Ontario Energy Board decision that altered the regulatory treatment of certain transportation revenues.
The company is appealing this decision.
Turning to Western Canada.
The business reported EBIT of $111 million for the quarter compared with $138 million in 2012.
Segment results reflect lower earnings in the conventional gathering and processing business driven by lower contracted volumes and lower interruptible revenue as expected.
Empress earned $3 million in the first quarter $4 million less than in the prior year quarter primarily due to lower propane sales prices.
We stabilized the Empress business under current market conditions.
As we told you in January we expect Empress to break even this year and we believe we're on track for that.
However full year performance will be dependent on propane prices and other factors in the fourth quarter.
Field Services reported first quarter 2013 EBIT of $88 million compared with $93 million in 2012.
The decrease in EBIT was mainly driven by lower natural gas liquids prices and reduced NGL volumes due in part to mechanical and weather-related issues experienced this quarter.
This decrease was partially offset by an increasing gains on units issued by DCP Midstream Partners and a reduction in depreciation expense as previously reported in the second quarter of 2012.
DCP's realized NGL prices averaged $0.74 per gallon this quarter versus $1 per gallon last year.
As a reminder DCP's realized NGL barrel is weighted about 60% to Mont Belvieu and 40% to Conway and is somewhat lighter than the average industry barrel.
The realized price is a reflection of the liquids content in the locations in which DCP operates and its commercial contract portfolio.
Based on what we're seeing today we would expect DCP's full year realized prices to be in line with what we've seen so far this year.
NYMEX natural gas averaged $3.34 versus $2.74 and crude oil averaged $95 per barrel versus $103 per barrel last year.
DCP Midstream continues to pay attractive distributions to its owners with Spectra energy receiving $52 million in the first quarter.
Now let's turn to our newest segment Liquids which reported first quarter EBIT of $6 million almost entirely attributable to half a month of results from the Express-Platte Systems.
We closed on Express-Platte in mid-March well ahead of our original target of a second quarter closing.
As Greg will discuss in more detail in a few minutes we are seeing higher-than-expected volumes and rates that exceed our acquisition assumptions.
So Express-Platte is off to a very good start.
And of course we were pleased announced yesterday the drop down of 1/2 of the Express-Platte System into Spectra Energy Partners which Greg will also speak to in more detail shortly.
Also included in the Liquids segment are the results of our 2012 equity investments in the Sand Hills and Southern Hills pipelines which are progressing towards completion.
The entire Liquids segment generates fee-based earnings with escalators which contributes to the overall financial strength of the company.
Other which is comprised primarily of our corporate governance costs and captive insurance premiums reported net costs of $26 million compared with $29 million in last year's quarter.
Now let's take a look at a few additional items.
Interest expense during the quarter was $149 million compared with $157 million last year.
The decrease was primarily driven by higher capitalized interest on our expansion projects.
First quarter income tax expense from continuing operations was $130 million compared with $137 million in the 2012 quarter.
At the end of the quarter our debt-to-total capitalization ratio stood at 58.9%.
We expect to continue to fund our CapEx program through a combination of internally generated funds and debt while maintaining our investment grade credit rating.
And at the quarter's close we had total capacity under our credit facilities of $2.9 billion and available liquidity of $1.7 billion.
So all in all a very good quarter in line with our expectations.
And with that let me turn things over to Greg.
Well thanks very much Pat and thanks to all of you for joining us today.
Along with the solid results that Pat just talked about we're making significant progress towards our other 2013 commitments including yesterday's announced drop down of half of the Express-Platte System into Spectra Energy Partners.
We expect to close on the drop-down early in the third quarter and are very pleased by the benefits this move will deliver to Spectra Energy Spectra Energy Partners and our investors and I'll talk a bit more about that in a maintenance.
And of course we're executing on our capital expansion commitments as well.
This slide gives you a snapshot of the momentum occurring across our system momentum driven by more than $25 billion in growth opportunities through the end of the decade which you've heard me speak about many times before.
First let's take a look at what we've accomplished so far this year.
In Western Canada we placed 2 significant projects into service during the quarter.
The final phase of the Dawson Processing Plant project is now in service and we completed the final phase of our Fort Nelson expansion program by putting the Fort Nelson north plant into service.
With DCP Midstream and Phillips 66 we're making good progress on the Sand Hills and Southern Hills pipelines and expect them to be fully in service by mid-2013.
These assets you recall are great fee-based pipes that connect the Permian the Eagle Ford and Mid-Continent regions to the premium Mont Belvieu market.
Given only a partial year of service we're not expecting material earnings contribution from these 2 pipes in 2013 but we expect to see revenues and volumes ramp up over the next several years.
We're making excellent progress on the New Jersey-New York project.
Construction is well underway and we're actually more than 70% complete.
This project is squarely in line with where we would have expected to be at this point and we're on target to bring it into service this year as originally planned.
We filed our TEAM 2014 project with the FERC in February and expect approval later this year which will keep us on track to deliver this $500 million project into service in late 2014.
Back in January we shared with you several U.S.
projects that will maximize the utilization of our system attaching Marcellus and Utica suppliers to growing demand markets in both the Northeast and the Southeast connecting the first and last mile if you will.
We told you many of these projects were in advanced stages of negotiation and I'm pleased to report today that we're making excellent progress towards securing a number of these growth projects by the end of this year.
So here's a few highlights.
In April we submitted what we believe is a very competitive bid in response to Florida Power &amp; Light's RFP.
And per the time line outlined in the RFP definitive agreements are expected to be signed this summer.
We're optimistic about our proposal and our position and look forward to further expanding our service into the Florida market.
So we'll have more to share with you about this project once the selection process is complete.
Moving on to our OPEN project.
Chesapeake Energy has signed an agreement to be an anchor shipper and you'll recall OPEN is intended to bring Utica gas to market.
We continue to have discussions with other potential shippers and we'll keep you updated on that progress as we proceed.
We're also making good progress on AIM an expansion of the Algonquin system to meet growing New England demand.
A very favorable open season concluded in the fourth quarter in 2012 and we're currently negotiating terms with customers.
We expect to have executed contracts by this summer to achieve an in-service date in the second half of 2016.
We'll be able to provide more color around the expected CapEx associated with AIM when the contract negotiations are complete.
Our Renaissance project is advancing to serve LDCs and power generators in the Southeast U.S.
as well as Marcellus and Utica producers.
This new 1.3 Bcf a day pipeline with an estimated mid-2017 in-service date reflects a full capacity expansion of our system.
Again we look forward to sharing more details with you once we finalized the commercial terms which we currently expect to occur this summer.
Lastly the NEXUS project our partnership with DTE and energy -- DTE Energy and Enbridge to develop a seamless transportation path for emerging Utica Shale to Michigan and Dawn Ontario continues to evolve.
We're working with the market to find an effective solution.
And while the ultimate in-service timing is dependent on final market demand and commitments we now anticipate in-service date to be in late 2016 to better accommodate those market needs.
So stay tuned over the next several months to hear more details about the next generation of fee-based natural gas pipeline projects to be placed in that 2015 to 2017 time frame.
And of course we continue to pursue opportunities to serve LNG export facilities on the west coast of British Columbia.
You're aware of our efforts with the BG Group and a final investment decision on these projects is expected mid-decade.
LNG exports are attracting a lot of attention and we'll keep you posted on our efforts to serve these market both in British Columbia and of course here on the Gulf Coast.
As Pat mentioned our new Liquids segment consists of Express-Platte System and the 1/3 investment in the Sand Hills and Southern Hills NGL pipelines.
We're very pleased to have these assets in the portfolio.
And you'll recall that we acquired a 1/3 interest in the NGL pipelines in November of last year and closed on the Express-Platte acquisition in March and up plants.
Express-Platte will be the largest contributor to earnings in our Liquids segment in 2013.
So let me speak to this new asset in a bit more detail.
Not only did Express-Platte bring fee-based earnings and cash flow from day one but we're already starting to see upside potential to our acquisition assumptions.
We're seeing significant volume ramp-up on the Express pipeline thanks to increasing refinery demand in the Rockies and more Canadian crude moving into PADD 2 by the Express and Platte systems.
This is possible on the fully utilized Platte system as Canadian crudes partially replacing Bakken crude that's reaching other markets via rail.
This volume ramp-up trend continues with recent Express shipments averaging 220 000 barrels a day or about 80% utilization significantly above the 2012 average shipment of 190 000 barrels per day or 70% utilization.
And in recent days we've seen in excess of 250 000 barrels a day shipped on Express.
So while it's still early days Express-Platte's existing asset footprint is delivering results greater than we expected at the time of the acquisition.
Based on the prorated time that we have Express-Platte this year we now expect the asset to contribute this year about $115 million on a stand-alone basis which equates to a full year 2013 EBITDA of $145 million.
We were confident that the Express-Platte System will be $0.03 to $0.05 accretive to with Spectra Energy's earnings on a full year basis going forward as well as providing support to SEP from which it can grow its distributions.
We'll be back midyear with more financial details on Express-Platte once the drop down to SEP is closed.
Of course we're actively engaged in discussions regarding many other growth opportunities some that could be realized in the near term and others a little longer out in the crude oil space.
Today I'd simply indicate that we are receiving a lot of interest that could bring Express to full capacity utilization.
We're also exploring possible opportunities to expand further upstream into Canada and downstream to connect to other refinery markets.
So we're pleased with the results of the Express-Platte System to date and confident that this asset is poised to deliver enhanced returns to both SE and SEP investors.
Our drop-down of 1/2 of the Express-Platte System into Spectra Energy Partners underscores our balanced approach to using our MLP to reward SE and SEP investors by using it to fund acquisitions advance organic growth and drop assets.
Our MLPs allow us to grow strategically by using the lowest cost of capital and most efficient vehicle for accretive acquisitions in addition to generating cash to reinvest in our current asset platforms.
This ongoing cycle of cash generation and reinvestment enables Spectra Energy to continue to grow our dividend and deliver attractive shareholder returns over the long run.
In addition to the remaining half of Express-Platte the Sand Hills and Southern Hills NGL pipelines are great fee-based assets with escalators that give them very attractive MLP attribute.
Let me look forward to moving them into SEP over the next couple of years.
And based on the current plans that we have we would expect to have more drop-down opportunities beyond 2014 based on the growth projects we secure.
Our expanding portfolio allows us to create value through the thoughtful and strategic use of MLPs benefiting both SE and SEP investors.
So we've shared with you on many occasions our steadfast belief in diversity of our business portfolio and we're seeing that which allows us to successfully navigate all market cycles and withstand headwinds and benefit from tailwinds.
As you've heard today we're acting on the belief through strategic expansion of our assets and business lines and demonstrating our financial flexibility through the use of the many tools at our disposal.
We're creating and enhancing shareholder value by participating across the full energy value chain and our solid and resilient foundation means that we're able to deliver earnings and consistent dividend growth across market cycles.
So with that as background we'll open up the lines for questions.
John? Okay.
Polly we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Craig Shere with Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</strong> A couple of quick ones here.
What were the EPS gains from the DPM unit sale issuances? I think there were about $35 million in the quarter Craig.
So we've kind of expected -- that's -- we expect I think full year number is probably running around $40 million for our accounts.
So a little bit earlier in the year than we had expected.
Inc.</strong> Understood.
And now that you've closed on Express-Platte and started dropping it down can you provide more color on the Canadian tax benefits that are retained as you drop down the assets themselves? Pat do you -- on the Canadian tax benefits with respect...
Yes Craig there were tax benefits that we enjoyed that were part of the acquisition that Spectra Energy was able to use some net operating losses but we're not breaking that out as something that's significant for the year.
It's really in the $0.03 to $0.05 that Greg talked about on a full year basis or the EBITDA numbers that we've provided.
It's really the bigger -- the tax benefits that the previous owners couldn't realize that prevented them from being able to move it into the MLP.
So it's really not a big uptick for us.
It just prevents tax leakage.
And Craig on your prior question just to clarify the actual DPM -- or the actual gains that we enjoyed related to those units as shown this was $43 million and our outlook for the full year had been about $35 million.
So we are ahead of schedule because of it.
It was a bigger drop of the -- in the first quarter than we had outlooked.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So do I understand that avoiding tax leakage so you mean on the drop-downs the NOLs there benefit you? No that was the benefit we got with the acquisitions.
And then on the drop-downs you probably saw from the release that we're anticipating that SE would take back units a the value of about $139 million or about 20% of the equity consideration and that relates to the tax leakage to prevent that.
Inc.</strong> I got you.
And last question in terms of drop-downs can you kind of speak to the need to fill up Sand Hills and Southern Hills completely before drop-downs or -- I mean obviously Express-Platte isn't fully utilized 100% right now.
So as you think about filling those other NGL pipes up in coming years completely maybe you can kind of give us some color on the potential timing of where you see drops relative to those assets maturing? Well I think there's no doubt that Express is probably at this point in time anyways the other half of that would be ahead of the NGL lines.
But we'll see how it fills up.
I mean we'd expected kind of basically it through into '15 before we get the NGL lines more full.
But we still may want to mix and match here if you will.
So Craig not to be too -- to dodge the question a little bit but I think you're thinking is right that you've got Express filling up faster and it's in a better position.
I think we have in a great deal of confidence given the cash flow and earnings stream there where the NGL lines just will take that call it 18 24 months to build up.
That being said I think it's pretty clear the value of those over time so that's just going to be a discussion with the independents if you will at SEP about where they'll see that value build over time.
Inc.</strong> Sure.
Could we see the other half of maritime in Northeast before the NGL lines are dropped? Well that's not the current plan but yes.
I mean I guess that's something we'd consider wherever we have assets.
The fact set has just changed so much in the last if you will even 6 weeks right? Six weeks ago we didn't have an oil pipeline that was earning $145 million or so and we didn't have the NGL pipelines in service now we do.
But that doesn't say that we wouldn't look at other assets if mixing and matching made sense and helped obviously SEP to continue to see that nicer growth on its distribution which I'm sure you noticed we announced yesterday.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Maresca with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just on Express-Platte interesting that you're seeing increases already.
Do the numbers that you put in the press release for the acquisitions do they reflect -- what do they reflect I guess it's what 70% or 80% utilization? Well they would reflect the $145 million.
So that's closer to the 80% utilization.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
As you look forward on this what do you see the opportunity here? Is there an opportunity to term out some of this increase in utilization? And is there an opportunity to see for I don't know possible expansion? Well I think there's couple of things.
There's several.
So first yes term out and that's obviously a balance of rate and demand.
There's a fuller utilization of the pipeline at least on the Express side up to 100%.
And then just even some of the things that we've seen that I have mentioned that as Bakken some of the Bakken crude moves in a different manner that opens up space on Express-Platte -- on Platte end of things.
And as such we can move more heavies from Canada which obviously attracts a higher tariff and you're moving that farther along the line.
So that's some of the benefit as well.
Now with respect to expansions and stuff definitely something we're out there looking at and we'll keep you informed on that.
Again still early days but I think both upstream and downstream and participation in terminals as well very interesting there.
Research Division</strong> And one final on Express-Platte.
What would you say has been the biggest surprise thus far? And I know it's early.
Is it just the increase in refinery demand? Well to be quite honest I don't think we were surprised.
I mean we see the value of steel in the ground.
And I don't need to go through the list of projects that get pushed out 2.5 years from now and things that people thought would be in service a year ago.
So that was the whole rationale for us to get into the business with an asset that's operating avoid some of the frustrations that others may be seeing.
And so I don't think it's a big surprise for us.
I think it verifies the investment thesis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one final one.
Going forward as we think about Sand and Southern Hills coming in as those  are build lines and you've built them should we be thinking about -- how should we be thinking about kind of multiple of a drop into SEP understanding that for Express-Platte you bought it and you had to kind of sell it at a price.
Is it possible that we could be thinking about a better multiple at SEP for some of the future drops for Sand and Southern? Stephen this is Pat.
I think the way we look at it is it's a balancing act so that it provides attractive financing for us by dropping to SEP letting them issue equity that the quid pro quo is that it's got to be at fair multiple that supports their unit price.
So I think if you look at the drop multiple it's the same as our acquisition multiple.
It's just top of -- a little higher EBITDA.
And so while the acquisition price for SEP is higher than 1/2 of our purchase price it's not a higher multiple because of the things that Greg described that have been driving higher EBITDA.
So on the NGL pipes you guys have put your finger on it that the thing that will be interesting in the next 2 years will be to think about that sequencing of our drops and what is it that gives rise in terms of getting full value in a drop and what best supports SEP's ability to grow its cash available for distribution and meet their targets and objectives to support their unit price.
So that's why it's kind of dynamic.
And at this point we're very much on track for the NGL lines to be completed by midyear.
But as you know there is as Greg said a ramp-up to that.
So those are all things that we'll be looking at in refining and fine-tuning the sequencing of the drops as well as the multiples.
I think the other thing Stephen I think if you think of it just again with kind of call it $2 billion-plus and growing of opportunities to drop we can easily manage the interest of both SE and SEP investors.
And again as you've seen just with the value that SE gets from bringing on Express-Platte but also moving up the distribution growth from $0.005 to $0.075 a unit for SEP once the drop is done I think you can see us do that balance.
So we -- in the past if you only had one asset or a very small far less flexibility and now that flexibility I think is a real advantage for all sides.
And your new next question comes from the line of Becca Followill.
Research Division</strong> You guys have articulated the $2 billion of drops to SEP over the next 2 years.
Is there any chance that you could accelerate that from additional assets? Yes I think that's fair comment.
I think part of it again goes back to a discussion we just had with Stephen you know what's the right rate in this level that can meet everybody's needs.
But yes I think we could accelerate that.
The other element obviously is absorption capacity.
And one of the keys for us moving all these assets into SEP is to give SEP heft in terms of market size and obviously that allows it to do more.
As you well know the market can only absorb so many units even for very large MLPs.
So that partially gauges some of the timing as well.
And your next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just want to go back to Express-Platte for a second.
When you're looking at the drop-down of the system into the MLP does that include also the Canadian portion of the pipeline? How does that kind of work? Yes I mean I guess the way there's always some structuring in here.
But the way I'd look at this is 50% of the EBITDA so it's for the -- it's the entire end-to-end EBITDA half is the way that I would look at it.
There's always little pieces Faisel in how does that's done but that's the way I'd think about it.
And it's not a problem if you're thinking about tax structuring or MLP restrictions.
There's no problem in putting the Canadian piece in the MLP.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
The Canadian piece is going into the MLP with the system? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay yes I just want to make sure.
And then how are you guys -- how does the rate structure again work on Express-Platte in terms of the tariffs? I mean those have kind of an inflation adjustment sort of mechanism that eventually gets reset every year.
Can you just remind us kind of how that works? Yes you're right.
It's done annually.
And I think the numbers are I think May 1 actually.
We just applied.
May 1 I think the new rates kick in.
And it's an inflator plus a FERC-adjusted element which runs combined around 5%.
So we should see that and we've assumed that from day 1 of the acquisition.
And I believe it kicks in on May 1 Faisel.
But if I'm wrong we'll get back and make sure it's...
And as you know Faisel the portion of the line that has contracted rates.
Those rates don't escalate until they expire and the volumes become uncommitted.
And that's a process that's underway now and it will all go to market by 2015 subject to trying to term out some of those volumes.
Somebody handed me and a note here.
So I was somewhat wrong -- I was absolutely wrong.
So on the 1st of April actually is when the Canadian piece kicked in adjustment there.
And we just filed the 1st of May for the U.S.
side of things or in May and that kicks in July 1 2013 so those are the exact dates.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's all in your guidance? Yes sir.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
Got it.
And then Pat I was trying to remember what you were talking about.
But in terms of the contracts.
So the contracts are all kind of fixed contracts.
Those don't escalate.
It's all the interruptible capacity that gets reset every single...
Faisel they're not all fixed.
So when you think about it the older section of the pipe is the Platte piece because it was originally built to take oil from the Rockies to Wood River.
And as Rockies supply started to dwindle that's when the Express piece was built to bring in heavy crude from Canada.
So if the northern most piece the Express piece is the newer piece that is still subject to committed rate rates the Platte piece were at market rates.
And on Express we're rolling to market between now and 2015.
So it's a little bit more complicated.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And just one last question.
On that market rate versus the contracted rate was there like a big difference between those 2 rates? Yes yes.
The interruptible rates if you will are the market rates are considerably higher and therein lies the discussion.
Do you go -- what's the delta you can achieve if you do do some recontracting or do you go at market rates.
[Operator Instructions]  And your next question comes from the line of Ted Durbin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I want to come back to I think I heard in the comments on the Field Services business the NGL realizations.
You're now expecting the full year to be close to what the first quarter realizations were? Is that -- did I hear that right? I think that's true.
Yes I think what I meant to convey there was that while oil prices have been a little bit -- have been about budgets and natural gas prices have been better the main driver of our earnings there are natural gas liquids prices.
And the $0.74 that we averaged in the first quarter we'd expect to be indicative of what we'd see in the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Because I think your guidance was about $0.80.
But to your point you've got gas prices higher probably than your guidance and maybe oil we'll see.
Okay I just wanted to clarify that.
And we've got some other initiatives underway.
DCP that could provide some non-price offset.
But yes the mid-$0.70 to $0.75 is a good number to think about from just what we see today.
You know how it moves around Ted.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Then I wanted to come back to the Florida pipeline just talk about this a little bit more.
You've -- I think there's been talk about maybe people going into a joint venture or maybe stand-alone proposal.
How do you see that playing out? And then talk again about the return that you'd expect.
Do you think this is kind of in that 10% to 12% return capital range? Is it higher or lower than that based on how you're seeing your projects shape up? Yes I won't get into the bidding mechanisms if you will and the nature of that.
But you know our historical world here and I would expect that we wouldn't be doing this just alone in the end.
That being said I would say this project it was a very competitive bid process.
Obviously one of the great markets in North America and obviously have excellent customer and customers in the whole region.
So I would expect this project to be more like in the 9% range Ted in terms of return on capital employed.
And if you've seen the RFP those volumes ramp up so competitive.
And I'd see that with many of our projects kind of being more in that kind of 8% to 10% time range versus the typical 10% to 12%.
Now we've been able to do a bit better than the 10% to 12%.
But as cost of capital has come down for virtually every company and call it 6% for Spectra on a combined basis and everybody else seeing those types of benefits I think you can see returns contract a bit while still seeing a similar spread above the cost of capital that we've seen historical.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's very helpful.
And then a last one for me is on NEXUS.
Again just listening to the language it sounds like you had some wrinkles there in terms of maybe the demand not being there the timing getting pushed out.
I'm just wondering if you can go into that a little bit more.
And then maybe talk about the impact of TransCanada and the potential mainline conversion.
I would think that would be positive for you and for that project in terms of you wanted to bring more Marcellus gas into as the Alberta supply into Toronto kind of declines.
Yes you're hearing it right.
Two things: one we are probably a little bit ahead of where producers are today.
And so between the partnership we very much discussed probably this project moves out into '17 as opposed to late '16.
And you don't want to be too far out in front of your customers obviously.
And obviously their critical from a contacting perspective.
So that's one.
But the demand is still very much there.
I think it's just a little uncertainty about exactly when that materializes.
But people in the Utica definitely want to see gas get into Dawn given the size of that hub.
Secondly I think you're right.
In general the mainline conversion should that occur should be positive for the dynamics along that Dawn-Trafalgar line or I think Toronto to Detroit of which as you know our pipeline there is kind of 4 -- 5 Bcf a day.
So it's a big pipeline.
So that -- I think that will be valuable.
We -- but all being said I would also say we got to be certain that we can still serve our customers at Union.
Everything won't come from the south.
I mean there'll still be some gas that will always comes from the west.
So that's something we're just making sure we're comfortable with that in fact the conversion is not going to create service problems particularly in and around that Toronto region.
So I think TransCanada is still trying to figure out what they will do or won't do.
And frankly if they don't want to build in the Toronto region we will.
And our final question comes from kind of Nathan Judge with Atlantic Equities.
I just wanted to see if you had any thoughts on how the political landscape in Western Canada British Columbia could change following the election? How that could potentially [indiscernible]? Well where do you think the elections are going to go? Obviously if the current administration stays in place they have been very positive towards natural gas infrastructure and natural gas development in the province.
If the administration changes to the New Democrats they have -- I will say they have -- we have worked with New -- we've been there 50 years.
So we've worked with the socialist governments there or the liberal governments there and done well.
I think as you know as it occurs here in the United States and everywhere else reality bites.
When you gain office whatever your statements may or may not have been during election the economy is a critical aspect of government.
And the natural gas business in British Columbia is absolutely critical to their revenue base.
So things may take a little longer on occasion we'll see.
At the same time I think given the revenue given that jobs given the very positive view of natural gas in the province over the years and currently relative maybe even to -- well not maybe but relative to oil at this point in time there then I think things will shake out fine.
I'm always watching for things like taxes and things like that.
But in terms of development after what might be just initial concerns about any change to any government I think it'll continue to progress forward.
And then just as a follow-up.
Did I hear it correctly you actually are raising your guidance for Express-Platte I guess around 10%? Yes I guess that'd be right.
We were $130 million for the year and now we're saying $145 million on an EBITDA basis.
Absolutely.
And at this time there are no further audio questions.
Okay.
If there are no further questions we'll conclude the call.
And I'd like to thank you very much for joining us today.
And as always if you do have additional follow-up questions please feel free to call Roni Cappadonna or me.
And we of course look forward to seeing many of you next week at the AGA Financial Forum.
And before we go I want to remind you that we launched a new Invest SE app to provide investors with financial -- with information package specifically for mobile devices.
This app is available for the Android the iPhone and the iPad and it provides stock updates press releases SEC filings investor presentations and other content all of which are also available on our website.
So we hope you'll check out the new app and let us know what you think.
With that thanks again for joining us this morning.
Operator this concludes the call.
And thank you for your participation.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Julie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners Second Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
John Arensdorf you may begin your conference.
Thanks Julie.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our call.
I'm John Arensdorf Chief Communications Officer for Spectra Energy.
We are pleased that you've joined us today.
Beginning this quarter we will address quarterly results for both Spectra Energy and our Master Limited Partnership Spectra Energy Partners in 1 combined call.
On today's call in addition to highlighting our earnings for the quarter we'll provide details on our plans to drop down Spectra Energy's remaining U.S.
Transmission Storage and Liquids assets into Spectra Energy Partners.
We'll also update you on the progress we've made in securing and executing an impressive array of growth projects.
Leading today's discussion will be Greg Ebel our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Pat Reddy our Chief Financial Officer.
Julie Dill President and CEO of Spectra Energy Partners is here with us as well.
Pat will begin by discussing second quarter results for Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners and then Greg will update you on our capital expansion program and speak to our drop-down plans which will play a large role in enabling our growth and enhancing value for both SE and SEP investors.
And of course we'll leave plenty of time for your questions.
But as always before we begin let me take a moment to remind you that some of the things we will discuss today concern future company performance of Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners and include forward-looking statements within the meanings of the federal securities laws.
Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements.
You should refer to the additional information contained in Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners' annual report on Form 10-K and in other SEC filings concerning factors that could cause these results to be different from those contemplated in today's discussion.
In addition today's discussion include certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC Reg G.
A reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures for each of the companies is available on the Investor Relations website at spectraenergy.com and spectraenergypartners.com.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Pat.
Well thank you John and good morning everyone.
As you've seen Spectra Energy delivered second quarter ongoing results of $0.30 per share compared with $0.33 per share in last year's quarter.
Results for this quarter are slightly ahead of our plan by about $0.02 and year-to-date results are tracking above the expectations.
As you'll hear our core businesses are performing well.
There were a couple of anticipated items in the quarter that show a negative effect when compared to last year the most significant among those was a major plant turnaround in Western Canada.
Overall however we're very pleased with our second quarter results and where we stand at midyear.
Let's take a closer look at our results by business segment beginning with U.S.
Transmission which reported EBITDA $248 million compared with $237 million in the second quarter of 2012.
Quarterly EBIT results reflect increased earnings from expansions on Texas Eastern partially offset by expected lower storage revenues.
Our Distribution segment reported second quarter EBIT of $65 million compared with $75 million in 2012.
This decrease is due to lower storage and transportation revenues as expected partially offset by higher customer usage due to colder weather.
We're pleased to share with you that Union Gas has successfully reached a settlement agreement on a new 5-year incentive rate mechanism to be effective January 1 2014 assuming OEB approval.
The agreement would provide Union Gas the opportunity to earn above our allowed return on equity of 8.9%.
Similar to our previous 5-year incentive rate plan we have a sharing mechanism in which the company retains the first 100 basis points above the allowed return on equity shares the next 100 basis points 50-50 with our customers and retains 10% of anything above 200 basis points.
This mechanism will significantly reduce regulatory uncertainty over the 5-year period.
Moving to Western Canada Transmission &amp; Processing this segment reported EBIT of $74 million compared with $94 million in 2012.
The decrease is due to increased O&amp;M primarily associated with scheduled major plant turnarounds and additional depreciation related to plants placed in service last year.
Contracted volumes in the conventional gathering and processing business were also down as expected.
These results were partially offset by positive earnings at Empress attributable primarily to lower extraction premiums and higher sales volumes compared to the second quarter of 2012.
Earlier this year we indicated that we were reviewing our options for the Empress facility and that we expect it to make a decision on future plans by midyear.
We completed our review and are adjusting our business model to implement a commercial structure that will provide us with a more stable and modest level of EBIT going forward.
We'll accomplish this by hedging extraction contracts as they are executed through a combination of physical forward gas purchases at fixed prices and NGL swaps.
We'll use hedge accounting for these transactions.
Field Services reported EBIT of $46 million compared with $66 million in 2012.
The change in EBIT is attributable primarily to the negative income effects of asset drop-downs to DCP Midstream Partners inclusive of drop-down hedges and the effects of lower NGL prices partially offset by lower operating costs and improved natural gas prices.
During the second quarters of 2013 and 2012 respectively NYMEX natural gas prices averaged $4.09 per MMBtu versus $2.22.
DCP's realized NGL prices averaged $0.71 per gallon versus $0.77.
And crude oil remained relatively flat at $94 per barrel.
DCP Midstream continues to pay attractive distributions to its owners with Spectra Energy receiving $93 million year-to-date.
Our Liquids segment consists of the Express-Platte Pipeline System and our equity investments in the Sand Hills and Southern Hills Pipelines.
This segment reported second quarter EBIT of $32 million with most of that attributable to Express-Platte operating results which continue to exceed our acquisition case.
And finally Other which is comprised primarily of our corporate governance costs and captive insurance premium reported net costs of $45 million compared with $25 million in last year's quarter.
The increase is due primarily to the accrual of higher employee benefit costs attributable to Spectra Energy's stock-based long-term incentive plan.
Now let's turn to Spectra Energy Partners.
Spectra Energy Partners reported second quarter cash available for distribution of $55.6 million and second quarter net income of $49.3 million up about 5% over the prior-year quarter.
The higher CAD and net income for the quarter were primarily driven by the drop-down of the Maritimes &amp; Northeast U.S.
assets during the fourth quarter of 2012.
The increase from this asset was partially offset by lower revenues at our Market Hub Partners storage assets as expected and slightly higher costs.
For the second quarter SEP also delivered its 23rd consecutive quarterly distribution increase to unitholders an increase of $0.0075 per unit 20% higher than the prior year's increase.
The distribution now equates to slightly more than $2.03 per unit on an annual basis.
And last Friday we closed on the drop-down of the first half of the Express-Platte System.
So both Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners recorded solid quarterly results and are moving forward in securing and delivering opportunities that further strengthen our portfolio and value proposition.
Now let me turn things over to Greg who will discuss in greater detail our plans to drop down the remaining assets from our U.S.
Transmission and Liquids segments and the significant opportunities we have in various stages of execution and development.
Well thanks a lot Pat and good morning everybody.
Yesterday we reached definitive agreement between Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners as to the terms of our drop-down of U.S.
assets.
You'll recall that on June 11 we indicated that we would drop the remainder of our U.S.
Transmission and Storage assets and so we're doing that and more as we are also accelerating the drop-down of the other half of Express-Platte asset as well as our 1/3 interest in the Sand Hills and Southern Hills NGL pipelines.
So that means that virtually all of our U.S.
assets excluding our interest in DCP Midstream will be dropped into Spectra Energy Partners by the end of this year.
I know you're keenly interested in the specific transaction details so let me dive right in.
The EBITDA multiple of this transaction is approximately 9.3x based on a unit price of $36.12 and this is consistent with the multiple calculation of similar peer transactions using the volume-weighted average price for the 10-day period ending June 11 which was the day we announced the transaction.
In consideration Spectra Energy will receive 172 million SEP LP units 3.5 million GP units to retain our 2% interest in the partnership and $2.2 billion in cash in which Spectra Energy will use to pay down debt.
Spectra Energy Partners expects to issue debt to fund the cash going to Spectra Energy.
Additionally SEP will assume approximately $2.5 billion in third-party debt associated with the assets to be dropped.
We've included a schedule profiling this debt in the presentation index -- or appendix which can be found on our website.
Unlike a number of other MLP transactions our SEP drop-down assumes no IDR give-back [ph] by Spectra Energy.
So let's turn now to Spectra Energy Partners' pro forma financial profile.
On a pro forma basis for 2014 total EBITDA is estimated to be about $1.48 billion with cash available for distribution of about $900 million.
2014 maintenance CapEx is estimated to be about $300 million.
And we estimate 200 -- 2014 interest expense to be about $250 million.
This transaction will allow SEP to increase the quarterly distribution to be paid in the first quarter of 2014 by $0.03 per unit and continue with a $0.01 per unit quarterly increase thereafter realizing approximately a 9% CAGR on distribution growth over the 2013 to '15 timeframe for investors.
Spectra Energy Partners' ongoing distribution coverage is targeted to be between 1.05x and 1.15x reflecting the very stable cash flows associated with SEP assets.
Now turning to the Spectra Energy side of the equation let's look at its pro forma financial profile.
Upon closing Spectra Energy's total ownership of Spectra Energy Partners is expected to be about 84% which includes the 2% GP interest with Spectra Energy holding about 240 million LP units and approximately 6 million GP units.
By 2015 we expect total distributions to Spectra Energy of approximately $800 million comprised of $225 million in GP and $575 million in LP distributions.
Our GP distributions are expected to increase fivefold over the 2013 to 2015 timeframe.
The cash to Spectra Energy from both its LP and GP holdings along with cash generated from Canadian operation and DCP Midstream distributions will support Spectra Energy's stated $0.12 a year dividend growth through 2015 which translates to an approximate 9% CAGR.
Going forward we expect Spectra Energy to pay out 80% to 90% of its cash through dividends which equates to a coverage ratio of about 1.1x to 1.2x.
This level of payout is entirely possible since the significant level of our growth will now be funded by SEP.
At both Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners we expect investment-grade ratings which we believe are important for the funding of our strategic growth opportunities in the U.S.
and Canada.
So we're very pleased with the transaction plans and look forward to closing by year-end.
Here's what our structure will look like following the close of the drop-down.
As you can see Spectra Energy will maintain significant scale stability and cash flow diversification.
Each of our businesses stand out on their own right.
Combined they create quite a powerhouse.
Union Gas is the second-largest gas distributor in Canada operating under a stable regulatory and rate structure and providing us with important cash generation for our dividend.
Our Western Canadian assets are situated in the heart of Canada's most prolific production fields and serve customers through strong multi-year fee-based contracts with many large growth opportunities ahead.
DCP Midstream is the largest NGL producer in the United States a premium gas gatherer and is well positioned to benefit in a big way when liquids pricing improves.
And of course our growing MLP Spectra Energy Partners which has the advantage of great assets and unrivaled U.S.
footprint and solid long-term contracts and an abundant group of CapEx projects now contractually secured.
As you can see we've got a great go-forward structure that allows us to maintain the scale the geographic reach and portfolio diversification that sets us apart.
Those are the details you've been waiting for and have been waiting to hear.
But now let's take a step back and take a big picture view.
Our sector-leading MLP is a big story for investors but so too are the new growth projects we've secured in recent weeks which I'll address shortly.
Spectra Energy is in the midst of transformational growth to the tune of some $25 billion in expansion by the end of the decade.
Beyond what's on the drawing board we see tremendous opportunities within our sector opportunities that we're ideally positioned to secure on behalf of investors.
That growth outlook is a catalyst to advance our MLP strategy now strategically employing our MLP to efficiently fund our U.S.
growth and enhance Spectra Energy's general partner position.
Here's why this is such a win-win for investors both Spectra Energy and SEP investors.
The transaction creates 2 strong entities.
Earnings and cash flows at both Spectra Energy and SEP will be underpinned by stable best-in-class assets.
They expand the financial flexibility of both entities.
The transaction provides a desirable scale for SEP creating more robust MLP to access attractive capital markets allowing us to efficiently fund large U.S.
growth projects.
Post close SEP will be one of the largest fee-based MLPs in the country.
We see this transaction allowing Spectra Energy to maintain the scale essential to executing on strategic opportunities in both the United States and Canada.
And while the drop-down involves U.S.
assets our Canadian businesses benefit from a large well-capitalized C-Corps that enables them to deliver on their sizable expansion plans and in turn contribute to dividend growth.
The drop-down enhances Spectra Energy's valuation for providing greater transparency on a general partner's cash flow which is highly valued by investors.
And importantly the transaction provides great potential to increase value at both Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners.
The transaction will also allow Spectra Energy to pay a higher portion of its cash-out in dividend.
Spectra Energy becomes far less dependent on external sources to finance growth.
Spectra Energy will now realize dividend growth of approximately $0.12 a year versus our previously discussed $0.08 a year.
The transaction also provides SEP unitholders with greater visibility for distribution growth via a $0.03 increase to be paid in the first quarter of 2014 followed by an increase in the distribution rate of a $0.01 per quarter thereafter.
A key driver behind this transaction is the advancement of our growth projects which will deliver strong sustainable returns to both Spectra Energy and SEP.
So here's an update on some of those projects.
This slide shows the array of projects that we have underway and within our sights.
The current market environment is highly favorable to the type of infrastructure growth we're pursuing and winning.
Changing supply dynamics are creating interest among end-users and producers to secure transportation services to flow gas and Spectra Energy is responding with an extraordinary suite of projects.
I'll start with those on track to contribute to Spectra Energy Partners' 2014 cash available for distribution.
Sand Hills and Southern Hills are now fully in service coming in on budget and ahead of schedule.
These NGL assets are great fee-based pipes that connect the Permian Eagle Ford Mid-Continent regions to the premium Mont Belvieu market.
Our 1/3 ownership interest in Sand Hills and Southern Hills represents about an $800 million investment.
While these pipes won't contribute significantly to 2013 earnings we anticipate revenues in volumes to continue ramping up over the next few years.
We're likewise making great progress on the New Jersey-New York expansion project of our Texas Eastern system.
The project is about 90% complete now.
We finished all 9 directional drills and are on course to complete the expansion by November 1 as planned and within the $1.2 billion capital investment we discussed with you.
We completed our FERC filing for the TEAM 2014 project in February and anticipate a certificate by year end and an in-service state in the second half of 2014.
TEAM is a $500-million expansion of our Texas Eastern mainline that will serve Chevron and EQT allowing them to flow their production both east and south from the Marcellus.
This project is the first of many that will transform Texas Eastern into a true bidirectional facility that will continue to provide our customers with access to multiple supply basins and growing demand markets.
And next week we'll file with the FERC for the $120 million Kingsport project an expansion of our Texas -- our East Tennessee system for Eastman Chemical.
That project is expected to be in full service in early 2014.
Now in January we made you aware of a number of opportunities we're pursuing in the U.S.
And as promised we're pleased to be able to share with you today that we have signed firm contracts underpinning 3 major projects moving $3 billion in capital investment opportunities for our account into execution.
Let's start in Florida.
In January we told you we felt we were well positioned to compete in Florida Power &amp; Lights RFP process.
Well as I hope you now know FP&amp;L recently announced their selection of Spectra Energy to construct the Sabal Trail Transmission system.
We'll partner with NextEra on this $3.2 billion project which is underpinned by 25-year contract with FP&amp;L.
Sabal Trail offers a critically-needed third pipeline into the state.
Initially sized for over 1 Bcf per day this expandable pipeline will fuel Florida's natural gas demand for decades to come.
We're already in advanced discussions with other parties interested in contracting Sabal Trail capacity so we expect volumes and returns in this project to build over time and we anticipate an in-service date in mid-2017.
This is a very big win for the Spectra Energy team and for SE and SEP investors.
We're also moving forward with our $500 million Ohio pipeline energy network or the OPEN Project designed to move gas from the Marcellus and Utica to markets in both the North and the South.
We have 2 anchor shippers including Chesapeake for this 550 million cubic feet per day expansion of Texas Eastern.
We expect to file our FERC application in the first quarter of 2014 with a targeted November 1 2015 in-service date.
Also moving to execution is our Algonquin Incremental Market or AIM project which will supplement the needs of LDC customers serving New England markets by a 300 million cubic feet per day expansion of our Algonquin system.
To date we've signed agreements with Northeast Utilities National Grid and UIL Holdings to underpin this $850 million expansion.
We'll file with the FERC in the first quarter of 2014 with an expected completion date in the second half of 2016.
As you can see great projects are across our system which in aggregate will achieve returns on capital employed in the 9% to 10% range well above our cost of capital.
And while we're proud of the projects we've secured to date we continue to make great progress on several growth opportunities that are in various stages of development.
We won't win all of this but our record of success is quite good.
So let's take a look at those.
Crude oil transportation affords a number of opportunities for us.
And while the Express-Platte System has been in-house less than 6 months closing on March 14 we've seen significantly better results than anticipated in our acquisition case.
There's been a sizable volume ramp-up on the Express pipeline thanks to increasing refinery demand in Rockies and more Canadian crude moving into PADD 2 via the Express and Platte Systems.
This volume ramp-up trend is holding steady with recent Express shipments continuing to average about 220 000 barrels per day or about an 80% utilization of that line.
Based on the increased level of demand we're in the midst of a binding open season for Express which will conclude on August 9.
We're seeing high levels of interest from refiners in the Rockies in need certainly of supply and from others looking to move Canadian oil out of Wyoming by rail.
We believe we'll be able to convert a significant portion of uncommitted volumes on Express to committed contracts at close to full uncommitted rates.
That gives us and our investors the best of both worlds attractive rates and contract certainty.
In addition Express-Platte is pursuing a number of other growth opportunities some of which could be significant and require the deployment of large amounts of capital dollars above and beyond the $25 billion we discussed with you in January.
We're looking at everything from expanding the system northward to connect directly with oil sand supplies to double the capacity of the total system.
We're also exploring crude oil infrastructure opportunities beyond the Express-Platte footprint including storage on the Gulf Coast and rail terminal and pipeline projects in California.
To continue to work -- we continue to work on the Renaissance project which could move Marcellus gas to the Southeast U.S.
We are in advanced discussions with 5 customers interested in securing capacity on this potential $2 billion 1.3 billion cubic feet per day pipeline from Texas Eastern system in Tennessee to the Atlanta area.
Assuming we can reach contract terms that allow us to realize an acceptable return on this new highly competitive market for us we expect to be able to make a decision on this project in the coming weeks.
The next project -- the NEXUS project our partnership with DTE Energy and Enbridge will provide a seamless transportation path for Utica and Marcellus gas to move into the upper Midwest and Ontario.
This project is progressing well.
And based on market demand indicators we remain optimistic that we'll move NEXUS into execution sometime next year so stay tuned on that front.
We're reviewing a number of potential Gulf Coast projects related to the infrastructure needed to support the industrial resurgence and LNG exports and look forward to updating you on the progress we're making on those projects by year end.
Moving north there's also a number of LNG export projects being considered on the West Coast to British Columbia including our partnership with the BG Group.
Clearly not all of these projects will move forward but we believe Spectra Energy is well positioned to support those that do.
And we have structured our agreement with the BG Group to ensure our development costs are covered under any outcome.
We continue to pursue additional gathering and processing opportunities in Western Canada predominantly centered now in the Montney region.
Spectra Energy occupies premier positions in Western Canada's world-class natural gas supply plays.
So if any of the proposed LNG export projects proceed we will see an abundance of G&amp;P opportunities in both the Montney and Horn River and even perhaps in the Liard and Cordova regions.
The opportunities before us require significant capital investment and we're dedicated to funding that level of expenditure via the most efficient means possible whether that's employing our MLP to fund growth in the U.S.
or utilizing our large well-funded C-Corps for Canadian expansion.
So withstanding opportunities ahead of us backed by a full complement of funding options the win-win I mentioned earlier keeps rewarding our investors.
We shared a lot of information with you today and I hope you've been able to sense our confidence and optimism.
This is a great time to be investing in Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners.
Since the end of the third quarter of 2012 Spectra Energy and SEP have created $6 billion in share and unit price appreciation for investors.
That's an impressive number enabled by impressive execution on many fronts.
We first announced the acquisition of our 1/3 interest in both Sand Hills and Southern Hills Pipelines from DCP and our intent to drop them into SEP.
Not only did this provide a catalyst for future drop-down activity for SEP it also allowed DCP to continue its unprecedented expansion efforts thanks to strong owner support.
We then executed on our plan to expand into the crude oil infrastructure segment.
In December 2012 we announced the acquisition of the Express-Platte System.
The flexibility of our structure allowed us to efficiently make this acquisition and add a fee-based asset with escalators to our portfolio.
This too served as a springboard for further growth at SEP.
As we expected SEP's currency strengthened with the announced drop of 50% of Express-Platte and our indication of dropping the remaining 50%.
And then with the maturation of several large expansion projects that have been on the horizon Florida OPEN AIM totaling about $3 billion the time was right to move forward with the drop-down of all of our U.S.
Transmission Storage and Liquid assets into SEP.
As you'd expect we'll continue to evaluate multiple value-enhancing options that build upon the momentum achieved to date.
And in evaluating further enhancements we continually consider the many dynamic factors and scenarios at play.
We consider our expansion CapEx requirements and evaluate the most efficient structure to fund growth and other strategic opportunities.
As we stated this was a major consideration that U.S.
Transmission and Liquids drop-down transaction that's now underway.
We consider tax implications including those stemming from cross-border transactions which are especially relevant to Spectra Energy given our extensive portfolio above U.S.
and Canadian assets.
We consider commodity exposure particularly at DCP Midstream as the largest NGL producer in the U.S.
It's difficult to effectively hedge all DCP's commodity exposure without moving the market.
While we think the current structure at DCP makes sense today we continually look at other options.
For example with growing GP distributions at DPM there could be an opportunity to more fully realize the value of our interest in DCP.
Lastly and of utmost importance we consider the needs and interests of all of our many stakeholders including our joint venture partners and investors both equity and fixed income in Spectra Energy and SEP.
In summary we're pleased with the investor value we've been able to delever -- deliver to date and look forward to continuing this trajectory.
We've accomplished a lot over the last 6 to 8 months for our investors a slate of high-performing projects delivered into service new lines of business in crude oil and natural gas liquids transportation sector the deployment of a major MLP drop-down to support continued growth of success and the $6 billion in share and unit price appreciation I mentioned.
Our primary focus over the next several months will be closing the drop-down transaction executing on the projects we have and securing additional growth projects for multiple ways to create value through existing lines of business through the execution of new projects and through opportunities that serve our business and investors' interests.
You can be assured that we are constantly looking at all of the options available to us those within our sight today and those will emerge as market dynamics evolve.
With that let me turn things back over to John so we can take your questions.
Okay.
Julie we're ready to take questions.
If you could give the instructions on how to ask a question once again.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Christine Cho with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I would think that you are taking on all of the future pipeline projects at SEP now that the MLP is much bigger is that right? That would be a correct assumption.
Research Division</strong> Is there any scenario where you would potentially take on something at the parent level? And also about any potential large-ish acquisitions would you prefer to do that at SEP or at SE? Well I think it totally depends on the situation.
I guess part of it is size.
As you know the MLP market has become quite deep but very large transactions.
So I guess if you view that the transaction is similar to the size of SE you might want to be able to use the Spectra Energy comment in that type of situation.
But -- and a major project that was above what we think SEP could do that's something we'd consider.
But at this point in time acquisitions are not the primary focus.
The primary focus is execution on getting more projects.
Obviously those are cheaper and more efficient for us.
So I would keep that assumption Christine that anything you see us do in the United States would be done at the SEP level if it's got to do with crude or it's got to do with gas pipelines or even NGL pipelines.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know you gave that 80% to 90% of cash payout for the dividend? Right.
Research Division</strong> And I'm assuming you're going to pay out 100% of all the cash distributions that you'll receive from the MLPs.
But how should we think about payout ratio from the respective -- or from Western Canada the utility and your cash flow from DCP given the maintenance needs add to the segments and the commodity exposure at DCP? Well that 80% to 90% looked at everything.
So we looked at the cash that we'd get from the Western Canadian businesses as well as the distributions we'd get from DCP.
So we look at it from a conglomerated perspective Christine.
So obviously it's affected not just -- at Spectra Energy not just by what we get from SEP.
Research Division</strong> So I mean when we look at that calculation we should just aggregate it and take 80% to 90% of it? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the Florida pipeline.
I know you guys have a 2/3 interest in that and I think you're possibly looking on to take on another partner.
How should we think about your ultimate stake in the pipeline? And what are your thoughts around looking to sell a portion of your interest given this is supposed to be such an attractive project? Yes -- no we're not looking to sell any of it.
Look this is -- I would suggest for modeling purpose maybe think about 50%.
I think we could get anywhere from call it 40% to 2/3 of the project.
We obviously -- it was important for FP&amp;L to be a part of this project and we're glad that they are and NextEra however you want to look at it.
And as I believe you are aware Williams has the opportunity to participate in a small way.
But I think 50% is probably the way to look at it from a modeling perspective as some of those elements won't be known until we secure other contracts.
I don't think securing other contracts from other utilities will take too long.
I would expect that to happen in the next 60 to 90 days.
So you'll have some more clarity at that time too Christine.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question for me is can you confirm the blended cash tax rate for the utility as well as the LP and GP distributions is about 25%? And then also give us a sense for cash taxes at Western Canada and DCP? I would think DCP is 35% but I wasn't sure about Western Canada given the ongoing CapEx you've had there for the last couple of years.
Yes.
I don't know if Pat's got it but he doesn't have that right here.
But you're right on DCP.
The Canadian tax rate runs around 25%.
That's right Greg.
It depends on the blend of distributions and earnings between Canada and the U.S.
And then of course this year in this quarter we benefited from a pretty significant benefit due to enacting of some Canadian tax legislation that lowered our tax burden by about $12 million in this quarter.
So that gets down to about 26% on the blended rate and I think that's probably a way to look at it.
Your next question comes from the line of Bradley Olsen with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And congratulations on reaching terms on the MLP drop-down.
I just wanted to drill down a little bit further into kind of go-forward strategy.
Christine's question hit on the payout ratio.
Going forward given the rapid growth of the GP and LP cash flows from SEP it appears that Spectra's dividend in 2014 through 2016 will be largely and increasingly funded with after-tax LP and GP cash flows and after-tax DCP dividends kind of exclusively.
How should investors think about a cash return from those Canadian businesses? And I know you mentioned some of the unique tax attributes of those businesses in your prepared remarks and I was just hoping to get maybe a little bit more color on how those tax attributes might affect the payout from those businesses.
Well the way to think about Canada is that obviously the Western Canadian business is making a lot of investments as you know in G&amp;P and hopefully in LNG going forward.
But the way to think about Union is it provides call it $150 million towards our dividend at Spectra Energy.
So that's about 20% of that.
And obviously because of -- well maybe not obviously but because of the nature of Spectra Energy in multiple businesses different jurisdictions we obviously won't be surprised to use a lot of levers to minimize the cost of bringing cash across the border.
So that's the -- that's one of the key attributes that obviously stand-alone companies may not be able -- or probably wouldn't be able to benefit from that.
So think about 20% is probably a number today that -- of the dividend that's provided by the Canadian assets.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And given the robust CapEx backlog that you've announced that's moving into the execution phase this morning I know you've talked about 25% cash tax rate.
But can we think about those LP and GP cash flow tax rates moving down over the next several years as you invest this kind of large capital base at the SEP level? Well remember we're still -- if I understand your question right we're still going to have to pay the same tax rate on our LP distributions right? Those aren't tax exempt.
They attract the corporate profile tax rate.
So I don't think you would see that element go down if that's your question Brad.
I think that's right Brad.
And the other thing I'd just clarify is that that 25% is our GAAP controlling interest tax rate.
Our cash tax rate is actually quite a bit less than that particularly this year with bonus depreciation.
And next year we expect that number to improve at least at the SEP to be around $200 million of cash.
That's right.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And Greg just a kind of follow-up to your question to me the -- my understanding would be that some of the depreciation shield that you enjoy as an LP unitholder at the corporate level would allow you to enjoy some of the bonus depreciation as you invest that capital.
But I take it from your response that that's not the case.
Yes.
Well it's not significant.
You're right but it's not a significant element.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And just another question on the terms of the transaction.
The $2.2 billion cash return from SEP for a debt pay-down at the SE level how did you think about the -- how did you think about structuring a transaction given the fact that you'll probably be slightly over 4x consolidated pro forma for any equity issuance that might need to take place at SEP as far as deciding to take more cash or deciding to take more LP units back and increase your kind of go-forward cash distributions from SEP? Well it's -- you're right Brad it's a balance that we have to strike.
And as we've said for quite some time because we've been very tax-efficient and because we have low tax basis than the assets that we dropped we had to take the bulk of the consideration -- or needed to take the bulk in LP and GP units to transfer that low tax basis to those units.
And so it's only in the future if we were to sell those units that we'd pay the tax on that differential.
But then we did need a cash piece in order to pay down debt at SE Capital that basically is attributable to the assets that we're dropping down where we did financing at SE Capital in lieu of doing it directly at the entity level like at the TETCO or Algonquin level.
And so we're going to use that $2.2 billion of cash that we'll get back to reduce our outstanding debt at SE Capital.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one more for me.
In light of ONEOK's announced spin of their LDC business and the positive reaction we saw from the market to that announcement how has your thinking around potentially spinning out Union Gas for the larger Canadian business changed if at all? Yes it's -- that's not something we haven't looked at on multiple times in the past.
It comes up from time to time.
I think the one fundamental difference we see is as I understand the ONEOK transaction Brad that their utility was a user of capital.
As I mentioned earlier our utility is a provider of capital for dividends.
And so being able to have that difference is a big element.
And then of course we think that some of the very large projects in Western Canada call it the LNG projects et cetera that a small entity in Western Canada probably won't be the winner of a lot of those transactions.
And so that's pretty critical element just as it is in the United States.
I'm not sure ONEOK would ever have been considered for say a Florida project just given the size differential.
So that's the balance we have.
That being said we look at that all the time.
And of course then the big issue from that is tax.
I noticed they could do things on a tax-efficient basis.
We would not be in that position again partially because of the cross-border nature whether at Spectra Energy or if you went down the route of an IPO how say that piece of paper might be taxed with cross-border cash flows as well.
And those are big elements that we've got to consider.
But never say never.
That's something you look at.
But right now and at the times we've looked at it a multiple times in the past the tax inefficiency and the size of the project and the fact that we get about 20% of our dividend to SE paid out of our Canadian businesses are important factors for us to keep with the current structure at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Maresca with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First thing on maintenance CapEx for SEP the $300 million you talked about for 2014 to me it seemed a bit high relative to what I thought and what your EBITDA is.
So I guess is that -- why is it so high? And is that something that's going to stay at that level going forward or is this some -- is there some one-time thing going on? Well there isn't any real one-time thing.
Obviously we have a combination of brand-new assets and old assets.
I think that $300 million rate is probably a pretty fair number to look at going forward.
As you know following the San Bruno events Macondo a whole variety the United States government has actually put more requirements on pipeline.
So you have seen maintenance capital move up over the last couple of years and I think we're in that state.
As you know we run pipelines that have pressures on it that actually no other pipelines in the United States have the ability to do because of the way we looked after those assets.
So yes I'm not sure what number you had Brad but I -- or Stephen but I think that the $300 million number is good.
We've also taken into account 2 other things that may be unique to us new air emission requirements that I think will fit -- hit all pipelines particularly on the compressor front as well as longwall mining.
We have the benefit of going through the Marcellus and other areas.
But as you know that part of the world is also prolific from a coal mining perspective and there are costs actually that we absorb sometimes or share with the miners on that front and they're pretty active on mining coal.
And Stephen this is Pat.
One other nuance on that is that to the extent that some of these costs are generic and would be imposed on all pipelines we're looking in from a regulatory perspective to a strategy of being able to accrue these costs and be able to recover them in a future rate case to the extent they benefit general system customers.
So it's -- there would be a lag in the time of recovery that perhaps not ultimately -- that we would get them eventually.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
Secondly on the EBITDA forecast for 2014.
How much of Sand and Southern is included in there? And how should we think about the ramp from '14 to '15 on those pipes in terms of EBITDA generation? Yes.
Give us a minute.
I think we can pull that up.
It's obviously pretty small in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Well -- and the 2014 number...
Right right.
And I know the full ramp-up doesn't occur until 2016.
So...
Yes.
You're kind of -- but by '14 you're getting to the $60 million range versus in '13 you're more like $20 million range.
And then you ramp up fully to about $90 million by the time you get to '16 if that helps you.
Research Division</strong> That helps greatly.
And that is net to you.
But that's what your -- or SEP I should say right? Yes that's RP [ph] sorry...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the final one for me.
So another $2.2 billion of cash raised by SEP to go up to SE for this.
How should we be thinking about that in terms of the funding at SEP? Is that something where you would look to do a mix of debt and also SEP equity to raise that? No the idea would be debt.
I won't get into exactly what would be but debt.
But equity on that piece that would be debt.
And I know the treasury guys are working out the best way to be able to do that.
And Stephen the only thing I would mention there is that we did -- you may remember we did file for an after-market equity program which many of our peer MLPs have and a few successfully and that will allow us to raise equity during the year outside of other issuances.
Your next question comes from the line of Ted Durbin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I want to come back to the payout ratio please at SE.
It looks like you're going to target this now to focus on maintenance CapEx.
But you do have a lot of large private projects as you mentioned in Western Canada.
You could -- I think you said $7 billion potentially of LNG.
How do you think about funding those if they are all in the go at once? Would you issue equity at the SE level or how do you deal with that? Well I think we got a couple of options.
We won't -- the biggest chunk of those projects and really the only one that is the driver here on that Ted would be the LNG project which they -- and remember $7 billion for that is 100% which we have the option to get or BG has the option to put to us.
But they won't make any FID on that until early '16.
So we've got some time to think through that.
In the meantime so call it the next 3 years that the combination of -- obviously we have 2 good debt entities there and they largely raise internally they produce enough cash generation where they can support the annual investments up there.
We don't have -- right now like we did in the last couple of years being in a half-dollars project at Fort Nelson et cetera.
If though things really accelerated obviously and they're good investments that's an opportunity that we wouldn't want to miss.
We would have the option to use SE equity.
But we -- I don't foresee that right now.
I think the big driver of that and opportunity for us to chat again about that would be when the LNG project kicks in.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Okay.
And then just going back to Sabal I guess.
Can you talk about the returns on capital you're expecting on that project in particular? You talked about you've got existing commitments.
Kind of how do those returns ramp over time? Or is it more of a levelized return? Just kind of what you've got on the base commitments than what you'd see from -- in terms of upside if you decided to sign up additional customers? Yes.
I think the way to think about it is 9% to 10% return on capital employed initially and it goes to mid-teens after the second tranche kicks in which I think is 19% 20% range.
So -- but I fully expect the pipe to be completely utilized as we hook up those other customers.
And you've seen some other utilities beyond FPL and NextEra in recent days talk about their need for additional gas-fired generation there.
And if you do that calculation I think you'll see several thousand new megawatts of gas-fired generation of which this pipeline is uniquely positioned to be able to serve.
Your next question comes from the line of Gabe Moreen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Congrats on the transaction.
I'm just wondering I guess especially on the balance sheet sort of what metrics you're going to be targeting in terms of debt-to-EBITDA on things like that both at SE and SEP? I know in the past you've got a sort of debt to cap at the SE levels.
I'm just wondering kind of what range is there? Gabe our ranges really aren't going to change because our objective is to maintain our investment-grade ratings at both SE Capital and at SEP.
And as you can imagine the drop of these assets to SEP is actually very credit enhancing.
So we'd be looking for solid BBB/BAA2 status at SEP and to hold our BBB rating at SE Capital for the reasons Greg mentioned to be able to raise debt and equity at the SE Capital level to support both growth in Canada and potential acquisitions.
So we're really not going to change our debt-to-EBITDA metrics from where they were.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then maybe if I can follow up with a question on Empress and sort of what you talked about Pat in your opening remarks.
I think China hedged more in terms of the inputs and outputs there.
Could you talk about kind of how you came to that conclusion versus looking at some other different potential solutions? Has that solution came up with something you're doing with your partners at Empress? Are you going on a stand-alone basis? And then finally since it sounds like you'll be hedging NGLs on a physical basis how far out do you think you're going to go in terms of that hedging? Okay.
Gabe well thank you.
Well the -- in terms of the process as we've said earlier in the year there were really 3 potential options that we evaluated.
One was stay the course with hedging.
The second would have been to sell the plant to a third-party.
And the third option would have been to engage in some kind of joint venture with another operator in the area to address the issue of overcapacity for processing.
And as we look at those 3 options and given where commodities are at a fairly low point in the cycle we determined that the main thing we need to do is reduce volatility and ensure that we don't have another year like last year where we operated at a loss at Empress given that's a relatively small part of our operation going forward.
So that's how we arrived at the stay the course with hedging.
And we're not doing that with others.
We're doing it on our own.
We would probably be entering into forward sales -- forward purchases of natural gas and hedges really for this season that we -- where we're entering into the extraction contacts.
So it would tend to be mostly 12 months ahead or perhaps 18 months.
Yes.
And Gabe the only reason we can do this obviously is since it's a pretty small operation in terms -- and as Pat said largely forward sales if you will.
There's no proprietary trading or anything like that just to be clear.
We wouldn't expect to have a lot of mark-to-market.
We're not going to be hedging 100% of the output maybe 75% or 80%.
So there will be some GAAP -- a little bit of GAAP volatility.
But from an economic margin standpoint we'll be basically locking in a positive margin for the term of the contracts.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Golden with JPMorgan.
Just following back up on the debt situation credit metrics ratings.
I've got a couple of questions.
The potential hedging will that help over at the C-Corps to maintain ratings since more of the fee-based assets at this point are going to be dropped down to the MLP? Then as a follow-up sort of to that question when you're looking at the cash that's coming back over to the C-Corps how much of that cash do you think will be deployed to reduce the debt to firm up the capital structure as you said to keep it sort of constant roughly 100%? And do you envision trying to look at doing tender offers for existing SE debt? Okay.
Josh well on your 2 questions with respect to hedging as we mentioned the Empress operation on a go-forward basis the EBITDA would be call it $30 million for -- and Enterprise was about $3 billion plus of overall EBITDA.
So it's relatively small.
It's really more.
So we don't have to talk about Empress on our earnings call quite frankly.
It's just not big enough to -- it's more of a distraction if you will in that sense.
And then with respect to the cash back to Spectra Energy the $2.2 billion we're going to use that entirely to pay down debt.
So you probably know that in connection with the Express-Platte acquisition we took out a bank term loan in the amount of about $1.2 billion and then we have commercial paper debt that we're going to pay down in addition to that $1.2 billion.
And that will leave some small amount leftover that we could use to tender for some SE Capital issuances.
But that's something that we'll decide as we go along.
The bulk of that $2.2 billion will be used to retire our term loan and to pay down commercial paper.
And just one follow-up.
At the SE Corp.
level in your discussions with the rating agencies now that you've provided a bit more clarity I mean are you anticipating the downgrade by either one of the agencies at the C-Corps level? We made a strong case I think that when you think about it -- this is a financial restructuring the assets and the cash flows are the same.
You may have seen that yesterday Fitch has indicated that they're looking positively at what we've done.
And so we still have to hear from Moody's and S&amp;P.
But our view is that we should remain at SE Capital investment-grade and that we're deserving of a BBB/BAA2 rating.
But that's obviously something that the agencies will have to assess on their own looking at our cash flows.
Yes I think the agencies look really closely at obviously the assets that we have as well as the Canadian assets.
I think one thing assets like Union Gas provide a lot of comfort to rating agencies.
And we think with all the capital projects going forward that's going to be a positive element for us as well.
And even in Western Canada as you know the -- our G&amp;P business there is fee-based unlike in the U.S.
And so really the only volatility we had was at Empress.
And as I mentioned that's a very small piece of the overall picture now.
Yes.
And I -- just as a follow-up.
I know there's been a good deal of concern in the fixed income bond markets about Spectra potentially engaging in a transaction similar to ONEOK.
But if I go back to your comments earlier in the conference call it basically does not sound as though Union Gas is something that you would be looking to give up given that it's sort of a provider of cash.
Yes.
It's 2 elements: a it's a provider of cash and I think it's quite different from the ONEOK situation; and two the tax -- the cross-border nature of either the transaction or any piece of paper.
So at this point in time we think we've got the right structure with Union Gas.
I can never say never Josh.
But again this isn't a new idea.
It's something we've looked at and the inefficiencies from a tax perspective and the strong benefits from a cash benefit to our dividend suggest this is the right structure.
And that's very different from ONEOK I think.
Can I -- and then just my last question.
If I sort of think about going forward is it sort of fair to say that the more fee-based stable assets will be moved and over time transitioned to the MLP -- or developed in MLP and more of the processing gathering type of assets still being assets will be held more at the C-Corps level? No I wouldn't look at it like that.
I would say the fee-based assets in the United States are in the MLP.
The fee-based assets in Canada are largely in our C-Corps structure.
And the only really volatility -- assets with any type of volatility would be the gathering and processing in the United States which as you know is in DCP which has its separate entity and financing node with its own ratings.
So that's not part of SE if you will other than as an equity investment.
Your next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Faisel with Citi.
On the stated return on capital employed numbers you were giving for the Florida pipeline the 9% to 10% just to go back to that.
Is that an after-tax number the 9% to 10%? No that's a return on capital employed.
So EBIT over capital.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It's pretax.
And then...
Correct.
Research Division</strong> And then -- assuming with the contracts that you guys are -- binding contracts you have is there any sort of stipulation if the pipeline was to go -- to run over budget? Like how you would cover the excess cost if the pipe goes over budget? Well we always build in contingency.
And I think with the project we've done we've got a nice contingency in there but the equity holders so NextEra and ourselves would be at risk for any overruns on the project.
But I think we'd probably say "Well I also think that's one of the benefits of having a partner like NextEra involved and potentially others that will help to ensure against that." Research Division</strong> Okay.
Understood.
And then just on the guidance for EBITDA for 2014 at the SEP $1.48 billion and then looking at the 2013 EBITDA numbers for UST of $1.35 billion.
I guess if I extract out the equity earnings for Sand Hills and Southern Hills and the EBITDA for the Liquids pipelines it looks like the gas -- the U.S.
Transmission assets aren't really growing all that much from '13 to '14.
Is that the right way to look at it or am I missing something in those numbers? One thing that -- when you look at EBIT or EBITDA for U.S.
Transmission in '13 we have a fairly significant amount of AFUDC in there about 80 -- call it $80 million $85 million.
And so even as new assets go into service like New Jersey and New York we debt-flipped to cash but it doesn't dramatically drive up the EBIT or EBITDA.
The good thing about it going into service is it's now cash available for distribution.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And then just on the binding open season for the Express-Platte expansions can you go into a little bit more details of what -- this is a binding open season for a mainline expansion of the entire system? No the open season right now is just -- remember when we bought the asset we assumed a 70% utilization.
It's turned out to be more like 80% utilization.
And obviously as you know no pipes have been approved of significance since then.
So there's a lot of interest in the existing capacity on Express-Platte.
So this is just to contract up...
30%.
The existing capacity right? What I was talking about otherwise is given -- going through this process we've had a lot of well in excess of 20 interested parties signing confidentiality agreements looking into this discussion about could you further expand Express-Platte down the road? And that's something separate from the open season that obviously we're looking at which would be a multi multi-billion dollar transaction if we were able to structure that Faisel.
Your next question comes from the line of Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
Just 3 questions if I could.
One maybe keying off of Faisel's with Express-Platte.
As we look at the EBITDA target for next year and that Express-Platte is doing better-than-expected performance should we still be thinking of that as $145 million EBITDA asset even prior to the outcome of this open season? Or does that -- do you think it would have some uplift as we look at it today? Well Carl we're just in the process of finalizing all of our budgets for next year.
So I don't want to put it out piecemeal.
But I guess I would say this I'd be very disappointed if next year was $145 million.
I think to date we've -- our assumptions were more like 70% full at committed and uncommitted rates.
And so I expect we'll do better.
But as we come out with a fully detailed plan in January if you'd give us that time I'll lay it all out as opposed to just one business unit at a time.
But you're thinking in the right direction.
Fair fair enough.
Second question.
Just back to Florida -- and I apologize here.
I think you may have said this but I just want to confirm.
To the return on capital employed on Florida are you -- when the project starts up you're looking at a 9% to 10% ROCE and then expanding that over the time or the 9% to 10% is the life of the asset? No no no.
That's the start-up.
So it goes into the mid-teens after Phase 2 which the year of Phase 2 is -- escapes me right now.
But I think -- I want to say 20%.
But if I'm wrong the guys will give you a show [ph] and correct it.
Absolutely.
And then last question and at risk goes sort of trying to read tea leaves and trying to become a premonologist [ph] one of your statements in your prepared commentary was obviously you all -- you guys always reassess the structure value-enhancing moves et cetera.
And one thing I wasn't sure if we were seeing a veiled reference to the potential IPO-ing of DPM's GP.
And perhaps maybe whether it was meant to be or was not meant to be -- maybe I could ask the question this way.
To the extent that SEP as it sort of accreted in unit price and you all of a sudden won all of these projects and it became -- conditions changed to make that a worthwhile pursuit if you will doing this big drop is there any similar conditions we should think about from the IPO-ing of a GP for instance considering it's not really a use of cash or immediate evaluation kind of screen.
And I didn't know if you could help me with your thinking as you assess whether to do or not do something like that.
Well I think it's a couplefold [ph].
If I go use the DCP piece as an example as you know with the MLP was relatively small we're going to see the GP distributions that DCP [indiscernible] at 100% level going from call it $50 million -- or what am I talking about talking about $25 million to more like $120 million by 2015.
And I think we laid that out for you all last September October during our Investor Day just on DCP with $66 million.
And at that point in time we said "Look if investors aren't going to recognize the value of that you've got to look at other ways to realize that value.
And you've expressed some of the ways to potentially do that." So the same could be said for SEP.
Now I would fully expect that investors will recognize the value they're getting from the GP and the LP distributions via our growth in dividends to them.
But obviously we're not stuck on any one structure which everyone is going to create the most amount of value Carl.
But that is still going to maintain the benefits to the bondholders the equity holders et cetera.
It's a balance as you know of all these pieces so that you can be well positioned to fund growth in the future while providing investors with the best possible opportunities today.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Payne with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> On Express would it be possible to extend that to Texas Eastern and potentially repurpose some of that to get crude south into the Gulf? And -- well that's just my first question.
Okay.
I think there's a couple of different ways to get to the Gulf.
But yes that's something we're very interested in and we've also looked at and this is definitely a tough spot.
But obviously as you know the price of crude on the East Coast is very valuable.
So if there's an opportunity to extend towards Texas Eastern and find a way to use rights of way et cetera to get further east with crude that would be valuable too.
So all of those are on the opportunity list if you will.
I would just say that first and foremost our most directly in our line of sight right now is the open season contracting up.
And then the opportunities on the existing system if you will as supposed to further extension all the way down to the Gulf.
But as you know there are players that might find that very interesting of which we would work with.
And those are calls that we didn't have before December 2012 because we weren't in the business.
But now there's a good path to our door and vice versa to the other parties.
So yes the opportunities are out there Ross.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question is on the rating agencies.
Do you know when we might be hearing on what they conclude in terms of the SE rating? Ross I think we could hear as early as later this week from some of them.
Others may take a little bit longer until the transaction actually closes.
So -- but it could be as early as later this week.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Akman with Scotiabank.
Research Division</strong> Could you comment on the status of the NEXUS project? I'm just wondering if there has been any delay there or whether it's moving forward.
Well I think we'll have a good feel for you.
Early next year obviously there's a lot of moving pieces as you well know in the Canadian gas transportation business.
What is definitely clear is that the amount of gas moving from West to East in Canada is declining pretty rapidly.
And yet the need for natural gas in Ontario and Qubec continues to increase.
And so I think you've got the parties continue to be committed and in terms of DTE Enbridge and Spectra to be able to build that pipeline.
And -- but I think it will be early next year before we can say that one is moving into execution.
But any delays would be temporal I think as opposed to a stop in the project.
Research Division</strong> Next couple of questions are just on the MLP drop-down and also conversations I guess that have been happening in the marketplace about monetizing your IPO in Canada.
So I guess first question probably for Pat.
Pat I mean is there any income tax benefit in the MLP drop-down structure? I mean I know you're doing -- you've got the bonus depreciation that's going on now.
But relative to a status quo does the MLP drop-down reduce in any significant way income taxes paid by the overall entity or their assets? It doesn't for the C Corp Matthew for SE so that our -- because our PP [ph] and LP distributions are taxed like any other income for the corporation.
We didn't -- we don't -- we in a drop-down you don't get a step up in basis for those assets like you would when you go out and buy assets and get to step them up to the purchase price in a drop-down.
You don't do that.
And so we basically transfer the low basis in the assets we've dropped to the shares that we take back.
And as long as we hold those LP and GP shares we don't pay tax on that difference.
But on an ongoing basis the distributions that come back to us are not -- don't get a tax shield like they do for the retail investors.
Research Division</strong> Do you guys have any plans or is it possible in the future to drop any of the Canadian assets into SEP? I just asked the question because other MLPs have gone up to Canada and acquired assets.
So it wouldn't be the first time.
And I know there's conversation out there about doing things with the Canadian assets.
Just with respect to the MLP we did -- we are dropping the Canadian portion of Express-Platte.
We were able to do some tax structuring to make that tax efficient.
As you know Union Gas is a distribution company.
It's not a qualifying asset to go into an MLP.
And then what that leaves out west is our Western Canadian gathering and processing business.
So -- and with really no plans to do a cross-border drop of those assets or the pipeline down to the U.S.
Canada border.
Research Division</strong> And my last question is on the rating agencies as it relates to possible spin-off of Canada.
I mean my feeling and Greg you touched on this is the rating agencies are very high on gas distribution especially in Canada it's so reliable in its cash flow.
Have you had any specific conversations with them about how they would react to a spin of Union and how that would affect your chances of staying at BBB which obviously you guys seem really dedicated to an investment-grade credit rating at SE? Well this actually goes back to even 2002 when the assets were bought by Duke Energy at the time or DETT if you remember those names.
And an important element of that transaction was the maintenance of to keep Duke's ratings was the maintenance of Union Gas which was obviously a much smaller entity in the big Duke program then it is in West Coast -- than it is in Spectra Energy.
And our discussions with the rating agencies they would not in fact they asked us it's not our intentions to go down that route at this point in time but they asked us and they would see that as very negative.
And I think you might get some indication of that even on the ONEOK transaction where you're losing an entity that provides cash and stability in great years only 10% better and in really bad years 10% less.
So it would no doubt be credit negative and with $25 billion worth of projects that's something you'd have to consider really hard as to what the value of that is going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Becca Followill with U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Research Division</strong> Several questions for you guys in trying to run through the numbers on what this means to SE and SEP.
Can you talk to what the GP maintenance CapEx is going to be? You talked about $300 million roughly $280 million at SEP.
What is it at SE? And then while you're linking that up roughly on -- go ahead I'm sorry.
Becca the total is about $700 million for the corporation.
So if you take out the $300 million dollars for what we're dropping I think -- let me just double check that.
I think that number's got the Canadian piece.
Are you Becca asking for in the U.S.? Research Division</strong> Just total maintenance CapEx so that we can look and calculate what the GP -- what with the remaining cash flow is going to be at SE and how much you can pay out? Yes.
Well think about $800 million for the total corporation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the remainder goes to SE? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> And then on SEP rough idea of CapEx for '14 and '15? Yes we can give you those numbers.
Certainly.
So '14 and '15 we've got about the -- it's about call it let's say between -- right around $930 million for CapEx growth CapEx in '14 and about $1 billion to $1.1 billion in '15.
I'd use $1 billion for right now.
But again as we complete these -- the 2014 plans we'll give you even a more detailed number as we get to the end of the year.
But really it's the number to use right now.
Research Division</strong> Ballpark that's great.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then at SE the cash tax rate there's been several questions.
But just if we could see what the cash tax rate is for the remaining assets that are not the LP and the GP distributions but the cash tax rate for '14 and '15 for SE? We haven't projected that but that -- how it will change with the drop.
But we can do that Becca.
Obviously this year we're not paying cash taxes because of bonus depreciation.
Research Division</strong> And then the EBITDA from the remaining assets that you have at SE that are not Canada or not the DCP Midstream that you've got half of such that's still left Maritimes in Northeast Canada.
Is there -- what's the EBITDA of those remaining assets? And why drop down session 2 parts? Well let me take that one first.
The reason is that when you have a joint venture that holds an asset you could have constructive termination of the joint venture if you drop more than half of your interest in any 12-month period.
And the consequence of that is it restarts your tax depreciation and you have to stretch it out over a greater period of years.
So you have a just a net present value detriment to the cash benefit of depreciation in taxes.
So that's the reason that agreement -- partnership agreements restrict the amount you can drop down in a given year.
Yes Becca we'll follow up with you with some of those numbers we haven't got here.
We'll see what we can get you.
Research Division</strong> Okay then the last question is help me understand just on structure on Canada the difference between dividending $150 million of cash from Union Gas back to SE each year to pay your dividend versus having a separate corporate structure in Canada and it paying a dividend back to you.
What is the difference in that? Well again if you had a separate entity you actually -- we the money is fungible given the large size of the organization.
But we get a -- you may not have to move cash into Canada or out of Canada with the overall conglomerate.
The biggest challenge is is if you did a separate call it an IPO or a spin out Spectra Energy would have to pay cash taxes on that.
And if you spun it out into a U.S.
piece of paper let's say then you would have to bring cash across the border into a single entity to pay out the dividend and that would attract much higher taxes call it 50% in terms of taxes because you've got to pay to get the cash across the border.
We can by moving cash around overall organization avoid or most efficiently move the dollars inside Spectra Energy that avoids that what is basically a 50% plus tax rate.
That's the challenge.
So somebody's going to -- would have to pay either the investors that get the units for Spectra Energy on the absolute transaction.
There's no free lunch on that.
Unlike the ONEOK deal where it was indicated that there was absolutely no taxes paid by the corporation.
And that's just the cross-border nature of it.
With both West Coast and Union Gas and Spectra Energy we're able to move cash from one puck to another without attracting some of that cross-border tax leakage.
As Greg said Becca there's really to no way to spin out a Canadian company from underneath a U.S.
company without paying a U.S.
tax on that transaction whether it's by Spectra Energy Corp or by our shareholders.
Your next question comes from the line of John Edwards with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just -- if I could follow up on Becca's question.
Just the growth CapEx that 9 30 and $1 billion is that for all of SE or is that SEP? That's SEP.
SEP.
Research Division</strong> That's SEP okay all right.
Fair enough.
And then I was wondering what the total amount of CapEx opportunity here.
Could you carve out the SEP's -- SEP piece of the $25 billion for us? Yes that's running in the $9 billion to $10 billion range.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
So that's -- okay good.
Confirming that.
And then as far as the maintenance CapEx kind of following up Steve's question should we be thinking about maintenance CapEx going forward as roughly 20% of EBITDA? Because I mean it happens to work out about that right now.
Is that a pretty good rule of thumb to use going forward? I wouldn't look at it that way.
I think you use $300 million EBITDA will grow.
So hopefully maintenance capital won't [ph].
We've had some ramp-up for some of reasons that I talked about.
I don't think there's a rule of thumb related to EBITDA.
That's not the way I'd look at it John.
Research Division</strong> Okay so pretty flat about $300 million.
Yes that's -- that would be our target.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just -- could you give us your preliminary thoughts on your BC LNG projects the impact of the announcement by the Energy East project? Well I don't see a big impact as a result of Energy East project.
I mean the fact of the matter is that that's displacing if that goes forward on the oil side largely Alberta Gas.
The project -- the BC LNG projects are a largely British Colombia gas.
And as you've seen several prolific developments there you're talking about a multiple expansion of gas production in British Colombia.
That gas has got to get out.
And it's either coming -- come down to the United States and we know the challenges of that.
So it comes down the I-5 corridor for lack of a better word but there's no lack of gas down here or it's got to go to other markets largely Asia.
And so that's the big driver there.
And we have 2 opportunities to play of which the smaller one is actually a better returning project but the larger one is a bit of a driver.
And the large one obviously being the pipelines.
I don't expect all of these proposals to go forward.
But any of them that go forward are going to require more gathering and processing fee-based gathering and processing.
And we currently process more than 50% of the gas in British Colombia.
So that's our -- that's returning opportunity.
So if these -- if the LNG projects go forward I would expect kind of every 18 months we'll have to put in $1 billion plus of new gathering and processing opportunities.
Forget the pipeline.
The pipeline in itself could be anywhere from $6 billion to $8 billion worth of opportunity just one of them.
I would fully expect as you've seen in the United States you'll see some consolidation of these projects and that multiple players get multiple pieces.
Rarely in these projects are they done by a single entity.
So there's lots of things to still play out here in the '14 through '16 time period.
But I will say what we're most excited about is that something will happen and that that will lead to G&amp;P opportunity which are our best returning businesses up there.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Sighinolfi up with Jefferies.
Just a couple of cleanup questions for me.
Lots of commentary and questions on the Sabal project and returns there.
I'm curious now that OPEN and AIM have been formally moved into the execution bucket or tranche of your makeup how do we think about returns on those projects? I know negotiations were ongoing over the course of the spring? Is sort of the same range of outcomes in terms of a return on invested capital expected for each? Are there nuances with each? Can you just talk about that for a moment? Yes well obviously the capital associated with AIM when you're thinking you're moving 300 a day and it's an $850 million project obviously that's a much tougher area to operate in.
We have I won't get into the details but since it's a much tougher area and since it's a really required pipe we do have some capital cost sharing in that entity and in that project.
And I'd expect that project to be right in that same 9% to 10% return area probably more of the like as opposed to moving up to the teens.
And the same with OPEN.
Both well above our cost of capital on those projects.
The one thing I'd say about AIM which I didn't in mention my comments is that there is a possibility that project could grow in size.
And we're still in discussions with several players on that front.
So stay tuned on that.
But right now were calling it an $850 million project.
But there may be opportunity to add more volumes there because that's a very congested area.
OPEN is just the start of really continual development of the Utica and Marcellus areas.
You move gas north and south and through Texas Eastern.
So that one's a -- that was less likely to grow at this point in time.
Okay great.
And for AIM drive the expansion potential expansion you talked about.
That's party to this same phase it wouldn't be a later phase? Correct.
No that'd be part of their -- there's still some ongoing discussions so we have enough now contracted that this project is a go.
It just -- it's only going to improve from there from a capital investment opportunity size.
Okay great.
And then one more cleanup for me.
A lot of questions about capital structure and the credit ratings mainly centered at the parent company.
I'm curious on the MLP sort of following on from Brad's earlier question.
Looking at this sort of back-of-the-envelope getting somewhere around call it 4.25x net debt to EBITDA number.
Is that Pat as you think about wanting to maintain investment-grade at the SEP level as well you mentioned the ATM [ph] facility.
Obviously you mentioned debt being placed to pay back the parent company.
But as we think about it going forward what sort of level do you think is appropriate or comfortable on the SEP front? And then as we think about the very very sizable CapEx spend that you may have here coming the next couple of years can you just look at maybe funding more of that than historically we would think about with equity to sort of balance it back out? Yes Chris I mean with respect to the coverage ratio we're kind of looking at mid-4s and holding at that level call it 4.2 to 4.4 something like that.
And then financing our growth for modeling purposes at about 50-50 with debt and equity at the SEP level through the aftermarket program as well as through individual issuances as we go forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Curt Launer with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on some of the additional questions on the Canadian assets.
The CapEx has been coming down the last couple of years $750 million plus the $520 million this year.
What would be the outlook for that for 2014? Follow up relative to the plan of doing additional hedging and the achievement you have this year of Empress being breakeven will that generate mark-to-market accounting issues that we're going to have to watch on a quarterly basis in the future? And then I've got a couple of others.
Let me start with the last one Curt on the mark-to-market.
We're going to use hedge accounting so for the portion that we hedged there will always be some ineffectiveness I suppose.
So there could be a small mark on that.
And then to the extent we're hedging call it 75% or 80% there'll be 20% to 25% that's not hedged that we won't have a mark on but that could generate a book gain or loss.
But with respect to the hedges well they'll be cash flow hedges.
We don't anticipate at least to start significant ineffectiveness because we've got a good reference point for the gas price.
So we're not looking to generate significant mark-to-market swings that we'll have to talk about.
But there will be modest swing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as...
For the CapEx for '14.
You know what Curt let us pull to -- put the full plan together for '14.
I don't expect dramatic changes in Canada next year.
As I said the really next round of projects kick in as the LNG both ours and others go in.
So I wouldn't expect big differences.
But we will roll out the full plan for the entities beyond SEP if you will in -- at the end of the year and start of next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One more on Western Canada and then over -- I'll go over to Union Gas.
But through the second quarter you seem to be ahead of the guidance in terms of the Canadian numbers that you provided at the January Analyst Day of $615 million.
If I take away the O&amp;M and the turnarounds is that mostly an Empress breaking even situation or are there other factors that are causing that business to outperform the original expectations from the year? I think that -- the big issue is that the highest -- higher Empress earnings.
I mean that's a $20 million turnaround just in the quarter from where we were a year ago.
Remember we had that big propane drop off last year.
So that's really the big element.
And we said we'd breakeven this year.
So we're -- that $20 million is obviously the delta from last year.
But I think we're around $7 million to $8 million positive year-to-date.
So yes that's the big element that's happening there.
And that -- that was an important -- it was an important action for us this year.
Research Division</strong> And over to Union.
Quick question there.
Admittedly longer-term lots of things that happen in and around that market.
TransCanada with the Energy East conversion that is one thing that's bound to be a factor for you to consider a longer-term access to gas from the Marcellus.
The future of Union Gas looks very good from the perspective of Dawn storage getting higher value over time.
Can you talk about that a little bit? Yes I think that's right.
I mean look at -- you've got the what they call the eastern triangle there.
So you've got to be able obviously the heartland of Canada both from a people perspective and historically at least industrial perspective is Ontario.
You've got to get gas into Ontario and Qubec.
A for industry purposes and obviously for power generation purposes.
Union serves about 90% of the gas-fired generation in Ontario going forward.
So if you're not going to get it on the mainline or the mainline rates are so exorbitant that your Ontario regulators wouldn't approve such a price then you've got to find another alternative.
That's where the synergies of the project like NEXUS with DTE and Enbridge kick in.
And obviously it's got to be prudent but you would think it would be wise that the utilities in Ontario look for diversity of supplies the same way they do here in the United States.
And so with Enbridge Union and DTE utilities as potential underwriters of that pipeline that bodes very well for Enbridge Spectra and DTE parents to be able to develop that project which obviously serves our interest in the United States serves the interest of all 3 parties on storage in that region and obviously the local issue.
So you're right there's a lot going on there.
Our fundamental issue in Ontario and Eastern Canada is to make sure that our customers have access to reasonable rates and supplies of natural gas.
It's all great to change the mainline out to oil and we have no problem with that as long as we -- our customers get fair value for that and we can ensure security of supply.
So I think there's a lot of water to go under the bridge on that project still too.
And obviously we want to be supportive of TransCanada but also very supportive of customers as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Healy with AIG.
Having a question on a trying to get a sense for a sort of SE Holdco after all the transaction that go on.
And I guess looking for Union Gas and Western Canada you give guidance on EBIT.
I was wondering kind of what that would work out to if we were looking at like a distribution or a net income kind of what I'm backing into is can I see how much debt we can support at the SE Holdco given the distributions? Well I don't have those numbers right here.
But both SE and West Coast are public companies obviously and file the same as Qs and Ks.
And I don't have them right here.
But you can get those A as well as they have their own public ratings.
Or if you give us a shout after the call we'd get those for you too.
Sure not a problem just trying to connect some dots there.
And I guess sort of bigger picture guys just from a debt hole [ph] point of view it's not a great day for us.
And I guess I'm a little surprised that in the past we've sort of repeatedly heard from you guys that you're against the financial engineering you saw from some of the other kind of peers out there their growth.
When SEP came out of well the focus was on growing the pie and it really kind of feels like a real change in strategy here.
And I guess I don't know maybe can you talk me through on what maybe what am I missing or how am I supposed to feel good as the SE debt holder at this point particularly up at the Holdco? Well look I mean the SE is going to continue to be an 84% 80% holder of these assets and strong cash flows from those assets are going to continue to flow up to Spectra Energy A.
B we have a large suite of Spectra Energy projects that maybe financed at the SEP level.
But again far cheaper than going out there and buying assets.
That's going to continue to give very strong cash flows to the SE shareholder.
Third the Canadian assets remain an important element of the fold an important element of the credit metrics.
Those very stable regulatory regimes very stable cash flows that are there and a growing opportunity as well there that should give Spectra Energy bondholders benefits as well.
So look the -- we have used the MLP for years.
But until we got the NGL lines and until we got the crude oil lines we didn't see the opportunity to restructure such that it would be beneficial for SE and SEP.
As the unit prices moved up that gave us the opportunity to be able to take back paper which we had to.
You couldn't take back all cash because that would be tax inefficient and that provide a debt opportunity.
So as a bondholder I think you have to look at the entire pie and realize strong operator strong control continued cash flow up to the parent and entities of a very strong nature outside of the U.S.
that frankly should have a higher rating.
If you looked at the -- if you look at Enbridge and TransCanada I think the Canadian elements of Moody's and S&amp;P very similar assets seem to give them a stronger rating.
So I would argue the underlying assets are very strong as supporters of SE bondholders.
Got you.
And maybe ask you to kind of put a tie in it here.
You mentioned that investment-grade ratings are important to you.
And I guess I'm trying to make sure such as why is the investment-grade rating important to you up at the SE Holdco level? Well I think the key is we do have $25 billion of projects of which as we pointed out call it $8 billion to $10 billion worth of those projects are at SEP.
But that leaves $10 billion plus of projects at the other entities.
So you know how the notching effect works et cetera.
So we see being able to go out there and execute on LNG projects on any opportunities that might show up on Ontario as very important.
At the same time we also think that there may be other opportunities on the acquisition front or outside of an SEP structure.
You want to maintain your flexibility to be able to use SE as well.
So those 2 combined I think make it very important.
As you know if you had very little in the way of capital growth opportunities and you weren't having to use a combination of debt and equity maybe you wouldn't worry about that as much.
But I think from a long run perspective investment-grade ratings for highly capital-intensive businesses that are growing at a very good rate in a sizable proportion actually serves both the equity and bondholders very well.
Your next question comes from the line of Elvira Scotto with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of really quick follow-up questions for me.
To follow up on Sabal Trail can you just talk a little bit about the timing of the CapEx spend and is some of that included in the '14 or '15 SEP growth CapEx? Yes it's actually more of '15 and '16.
There's a small element in '14 but we actually don't actually file for basically 2 years.
You're actually -- the big filing for -- obviously you'll spend capital at hand sorry not file.
We wouldn't have our full regulatory approvals for a couple of years.
So that's when the dollars really get going Elvira so we'll give you the '14 number when we come out in January.
But it's a pretty small number in the early -- in early years.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then for SEP what's embedded in your distribution growth outlook with respect to the base business specifically around -- are you expecting any improvement in gas storage fundamentals? No but our standard in terms of how we're looking at this and how we've modeled things going forward is basically status quo on storage right now status quo on the NGL market.
So there's no upside if you will baked into that.
I do think as you get more power you see projects like FPL you see LNG projects along the coast the value of storage will improve.
But I don't see that until the middle of the decade.
So call it that '15 '16 timeframe the same with NGLs.
So that's not a big driver in our numbers at this point in time.
It's simply incremental projects and projects that come into service.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then the last one for me.
I just wanted to follow up on the question on dropping the Western Canadian assets into SEP understanding that you have no plans to do so.
But is there something -- is there a big tax hit involved if you were to do so? Is that why you -- it's something that's -- that you're not considering or is there something that precludes you from doing so? Well it's back to -- a large portion of our Canadian assets are in our Union Gas distribution subsidiary and distribution companies don't need the qualifying asset test for inclusion in an MLP.
So it really leaves Western Canada.
And when you think about what we have there today we've got 17 processing plants process about 60% of the gas in BC.
We're growing those.
We've got the takeaway pipeline which is regulated in Canada.
And there are some -- it's not -- there's no prohibition in dropping those into the U.S.
MLP.
You could do -- you'd have to look at tax structuring to see if that could be done tax efficiently.
But we don't have any immediate plans.
It's really to grow the distributions at SEP.
It's primarily to the growth projects that we've outlined where we're building at about 6x to 8x EBITDA.
The growth that that provides and the GP take is much better even than drops at 9x let's say it's more attractive for SEP's distribution growth.
Yes you've got some withholding tax issues obviously as you move cash across the border from Canadian assets into a U.S.
MLP.
It's not that we'd say never; it's something we've looked at multiple times as well.
If there is something that we can achieve greater value we would.
I think the other element is obviously you have a pure-play U.S.
MLP fee-based assets which is highly attractive.
One thing that you have to consider how would that play then to put Canadian assets into that pure-play U.S.
business? Your final question comes from the line of Darren Horowitz with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Pat I just have one question on cost of capital.
Recognizing where SEP is in the IDR splits and considering that 9% distribution growth rate of SEP over the next couple of years and then kind of running the model beyond that through the end of the decade the rise in SEP equity cost of capital should be fairly linear.
But when you start thinking about the associated increase in that GP take raising the cost of that currency and in the out years how lumpy the CapEx commitments are going to be that you've outlined how do you think about the return above SEP's cost of capital? Is it basically a possible 200 or 300 basis point return that you're targeting before you step back in and you start using SE as currency? Or does it come down to more of a debt-to-EBITDA/coverage ratio count? Just a little bit of color there I appreciate it.
Sure.
Well Darren we're really going to look at both.
So today if you peg SEP's cost of capital at around 7% we are looking at say 200 to 300 basis points above that or 9% to 10% like Greg talked about for our returns.
And we are in the 50% splits but we're not that deeply into them.
We just got to that threshold last year.
And so I think we've got at least a multiyear runway here before we have to be considered about -- you have -- before we have to be concerned about a higher cost of capital in terms of competing for projects or considering IDR waivers or givebacks.
I think we're in the fortunate position of being fairly early in the process with a few good years ahead of us before that even becomes an issue.
But we'll look at it both ways as you described.
And it's really back to our ability to compete for projects which we've shown recently with Sabal Trail being very competitive from a rate perspective.
Okay.
Operator is that the last of our questions? That was the final question correct.
Okay.
Well I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today.
We appreciate your time and your interest.
And as always if you have additional questions you can feel free to call Roni Cappadonna Derick Smith or me.
So with that thanks for joining us.
This does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Janika and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Arensdorf you may begin your conference.
Thanks Janika and good morning everyone and welcome to our third quarter earnings call.
I'm John Arensdorf Chief Communications Officer for Spectra Energy and we're pleased that you've joined us today.
As we did last quarter we will address quarterly results for both Spectra Energy and our Master Limited Partnership Spectra Energy Partners.
In addition to highlighting our earnings for the quarter we'll also update you on the progress we've made in securing and executing on an impressive array of growth projects.
Leading today's discussion will be Greg Ebel our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Pat Reddy our Chief Financial Officer.
Pat will discuss first -- third quarter results for Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners and Greg will update you on our capital expansion progress and the value we're creating for investors.
And of course we'll leave plenty of time for your questions.
Before we begin let me take a moment to remind you that some of the things we'll discuss today concern future company performance of Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners and include forward-looking statements within the meanings of the federal securities laws.
Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements.
You should refer to the additional information contained in Spectra Energy's and Spectra Energy Partners' annual report on Form 10-K and in other SEC filings concerning factors that could cause these results to be different from those contemplated in today's discussion.
In addition today's discussion includes certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC Reg G.
A reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures for each of the companies is available on the Investor Relations website at spectraenergy.com and spectraenergypartners.com respectively.
With that I'll turn the call over to Pat.
Well thank you John and good morning everyone.
Earlier this morning we announced that Spectra Energy delivered third quarter ongoing results of $0.42 per share compared with $0.27 per share in last year's quarter.
Ongoing earnings for the quarter exclude a $0.03 special item for transaction costs related to the drop-down of assets to Spectra Energy Partners.
These effects are noted as special items within the segment results for U.S.
Transmission and other.
Results for this quarter and the year are very much in line with our expectations and we fully anticipate that we'll meet our 2013 EPS target of $1.50.
EPS is one of the measures that investors use to evaluate our performance and it will remain an indicator going forward.
With our new structure in place we will expand our reporting on the cash generation capability of the enterprise.
The ability to increase distributable cash flow supports an attractive dividend and distribution growth.
It also produces a strong currency to help fund our $25 billion expansion program.
We completed the drop-down of our remaining U.S.
Pipeline Storage and Liquids assets to SEP last Friday 2 months ahead of schedule.
As you would expect this transaction will be accretive to cash flow at Spectra Energy but dilutive to earnings per share due to an increase in noncontrolling interest.
For the 2 months remaining in 2013 we expect the incremental noncontrolling interest reduction to be about $0.02 to $0.03 a share.
We'll provide you with our expectations for the 2014 noncontrolling interest reduction when we share our business plan early in the New Year.
In the meantime as you work on your 2014 models don't forget to take into account the sizable NCI adjustment for Spectra Energy Partners.
It's been a very busy and successful quarter for us so let's take a closer look at Spectra Energy's results by business segment.
U.S.
Transmission reported ongoing EBIT of $250 million compared with $238 million in 2012.
Quarterly EBIT results reflect increased earnings from expansions on Texas Eastern partially offset by expected lower Storage revenues.
Our Distribution segment reported third quarter EBIT of $34 million compared with $55 million in 2012.
The decrease in distributions 2013 results is due in part to expected lower Storage revenues.
We anticipate U.S.
and Canadian storage results to remain soft through the middle of the decade.
Additionally distributions results were affected by an expected reduction in transportation revenues resulting from a 2012 regulatory decision.
Distributions results for last year's third quarter included revenues realized from the optimization of certain upstream transportation contracts but subsequent to the November 2012 decision by the Ontario Energy Board those revenues were disallowed and refunded to customers.
As a result Union Gas took a $30 million charge in the fourth quarter of 2012 which obviously will not reoccur in this year's fourth quarter.
Last quarter we told you we'd been successful in reaching a settlement agreement with interested parties on a new 5-year incentive rate mechanism.
And we're pleased that during the quarter the OEB approved a new incentive regulation framework which will be effective January 1 2014.
The agreement will significantly reduce regulatory uncertainty over the 5-year period.
It will also provide a mechanism to adjust rates for significant capital projects allowing us to continue to invest in natural gas infrastructure in Ontario in an economically attractive manner.
Moving on to Western Canada Transmission &amp; Processing that segment reported EBIT of $90 million compared with $83 million in 2012.
The Empress natural gas liquids business earned $11 million in the third quarter attributable mainly to higher propane prices and lower production costs compared with last year's $21 million third quarter loss.
Based on steps we've taken this year and excluding things like periodic turnarounds we expect Empress will produce ongoing EBITDA of about $30 million in a typical year.
Western Canada's 2013 results were partially offset by lower earnings in the conventional gathering and processing business driven by lower contracted volumes as expected as well as higher employee benefit and labor costs.
Field Services reported EBIT of $137 million compared with $62 million in the 2012 quarter.
The improvement in EBIT is attributable primarily to higher volumes from DCP Midstream's new processing plants as well as higher commodity prices and lower operating costs.
Additionally there was an increase in equity gains from the ongoing issuance of units by DCP Midstream Partners.
These increases were partially offset by higher interest expense primarily as a result of lower capitalized interest in the 2013 quarter reflecting plant completions.
During the third quarters of 2013 and 2012 respectively DCP's realized NGL's prices averaged $0.78 per gallon versus $0.72 NYMEX natural gas averaged $3.58 per MMBtu versus $2.81 and crude oil averaged $106 per barrel versus $92.
DCP Midstream has paid cash distributions of $128 million to Spectra Energy year-to-date.
Our Liquids segment consists of the Express-Platte Pipeline System and our equity investments in the Sand Hills and Southern Hills NGL Pipelines.
Liquids reported third quarter EBIT of $33 million.
Express-Platte's operating results continue to exceed our expectations due to highly favorable market dynamics in the North American crude oil sector and the competitive positioning of our assets.
Now let's turn to Spectra Energy Partners.
Spectra Energy Partners reported strong results in third quarter 2013 with the acquisitions of 50% of Express-Platte in August of this year and a 39% interest in Maritimes &amp; Northeast in October of last year driving growth in both cash available for distribution and earnings.
SEP reported cash available for distribution of $66.3 million up 18% over the prior year's quarter reflecting Express-Platte results since closing in August and a full quarter of Maritimes partially offset by about $6 million in transaction costs to the November 1 drop-down of assets from Spectra Energy as well as expected lower storage revenues.
For the third quarter SEP also delivered its 24th consecutive quarterly distribution increase to unitholders an increase of $0.0075 per unit.
The distribution now equates to slightly more than $2.06 per unit on an annual basis.
As a reminder SEP expects to increase quarterly distributions by $0.03 in the first quarter of 2014 bringing the annualized distribution to more than $2.18 followed by increases of $0.01 per quarter through 2015.
This quarter we also took steps to prepare for the closing of the drop-down and as we look ahead to fund our growth.
First in September SEP issued $1.9 billion in debt to finance a portion of the transaction.
In addition we resized our credit facilities increasing the SEP facility to $2 billion and reducing the Spectra Energy facility to $1 billion.
This is what our asset structure looks like today.
As you can see Spectra Energy maintained significant scale stability and geographic diversification.
And our nearly supersized SEP has the advantage of great assets and unrivaled U.S.
footprint solid long-term fee-based contracts and abundant CapEx projects contractually secured or in advance development to generate sector-leading growth.
This structure provides the financial flexibility to efficiently support our growth plans so both Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners recorded strong quarterly results and are moving forward in securing and delivering opportunities that further strengthen our portfolio and our value proposition.
With that let me turn the call over to Greg Thanks very much Pat and thanks for everybody joining us today.
We're feeling pretty upbeat on a lot of fronts today and we like where we're headed.
When we met with you at the beginning of the year we laid out our plans and goals for 2013 all focused on expanding our footprint our business and our commitment of course to grow shareholder value.
Since then we've been working hard to deliver on those promises and I'm pleased with the record of our achievement to date.
Not only are we doing what we told you we'd do we're doing it better and faster.
And with every promise kept we raise the bar for more good things to come.
We committed to an EPS target of $1.50 and as you heard from Pat we're well on track to meet that $1.50.
We are realizing benefits from the acquisition of the Express-Platte System earlier in the year which continues to exceed our early assumptions.
Results at Empress this year on track to exceed the breakeven assumption in our $1.50 target stronger propane prices have held but equally important is the way in which we've optimized the commercial agreements of there.
As we've stated many times the diversity of our business portfolio enables us to deliver through a range of market and commodity cycles.
Our long-term focus is rightly directed towards delivering attractive total shareholder returns and our C-Corp MLP structure is likewise designed to efficiently fund expansion in both the United States and Canada fuel growth and reward investors.
We told you that we'd deliver dividend growth to Spectra Energy investors and we are.
In fact rather than the $0.08 annual growth we promised at the beginning of the year we're now committed to deliver $0.15 a year.
SEP investors are benefiting as well and realizing 11% distribution growth from 2013 to 2014.
We remain committed to and confident in our ability to deliver attractive shareholder returns to all of our investors.
We continue to evaluate multiple value-enhancing options to build upon the momentum achieved to date.
For example with growing GP distributions at DPM we along with our partner Phillips 66 are always considering opportunities to more fully realize the value of our GP interest there.
At the beginning of the year we laid out our intentions to fully leverage our MLP structure and advance our drop-down strategy.
And then in June we announced the drop-down of all the remaining U.S.
Transmission and Storage assets as well as the remaining liquid assets to SEP.
We are very pleased to have closed sooner than expected on that transaction creating a $20 billion enterprise and one of the largest fee-based MLPs in North America.
Starting in 2014 the move creates significant incremental GP and LP cash flow growth which in turn supports enhanced dividend and distribution growth.
Finally we told you we delivered $25 billion in growth projects by the end of this decade.
To date we've secured or placed into service more than half of that.
As we've mentioned we're pleased with our $1.5 billion Express-Platte acquisition.
Now that it's fully integrated we're working hard to leverage and grow these assets.
For example in August we completed a successful open season for Express with high levels of interest from refiners in the Rockies who need certainty of supply and from customers looking to move Canadian oil out of Wyoming by rail.
With committed volumes growing from 119 000 barrels per day to 225 000 barrels per day and importantly the average contract life going from 1.5 years to 11 years we've now increased our 2014 Express-Platte EBITDA expectations to at least $160 million.
There are many fine execution examples we can point to this year as well.
The $1.2 billion New Jersey-New York pipeline was delivered into service last week the success of our Sabal Trail proposal our good work on securing projects like AIM OPEN and TEAM 2014 and the nearly $2 billion that DCP has also placed into service this year.
Excellent results across-the-board all grounded in keeping our word doing what we told you we'd do and meeting or exceeding the growth and value creation goals we set.
On that note let's take a look at the excellent progress we're making on our capital expansion program.
The New Jersey-New York project began delivering gas on November 1 as we promised customers and investors 4 years ago.
This project brings critically needed new natural gas supplies into New Jersey and New York City markets for the first time in 40 years.
The project involved a number of engineering achievements including a pipeline crossing beneath the Hudson River and the longest 30-inch horizontal directional drill in North America.
This was an extremely complex high-profile project situated in a densely populated urban setting.
Pipeline is complete now and its serving customers well already.
The successful execution of the New Jersey-New York project boosts our ability to win other big projects like Sabal Trail Transmission underpinned by a 25-year contract with Florida Power &amp; Light.
Last month we received FERC approval to commence the prefiling process for the $3.2 billion project and we're proceeding on course towards a mid-2017 in-service date.
We're making great progress on our Algonquin Incremental Market or AIM Project.
During the quarter AIM added an additional cluster [ph] Bay State gas expanding the scope of the project to above 340 million cubic feet per day with CapEx of about $1 billion.
And we expect FERC approval for our $500 million TEAM 2014 project before the end of the year.
We're also very pleased with our most recent project the Gulf market expansion project.
We've executed new long-term contracts for 650 million cubic feet per day of natural gas shipments on TETCO to support the growing industrial and LNG export sectors along the Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast.
This $150 million project is a continuation of our development efforts to transform our Texas Eastern mainline into a truly bidirectional system that will provide diverse supply access to the Northeast the Southeast and Gulf Coast markets.
A series of expansion projects at Union Gas along the Dawn to Parkway corridor are proceeding well with about $450 million of projects now underway.
DCP Midstream is also advancing a $4 billion to $6 billion growth CapEx program.
The Rawhide plant in the Permian Basin was placed into service in late August along with associated gathering and compression systems.
And the O'Connor Plant located in the expanding DJ Basin commenced commercial operations last month.
DCP Midstream continues to advance its impressive processing footprint and is now ranked as the nation's largest natural gas processor and the #1 natural gas liquids producer by volume.
As you can see we are executing on a broad portfolio of projects.
But of equal note are the projects we have in advance development.
Let's take a quick look at those.
As we discussed with you last quarter our Nexus project is a partnership with DTE Energy and Enbridge and we'll move Utica and Marcellus gas into the upper Midwest and Ontario.
We expect to have firm transportation agreements in place with LDC customers by year end which should move Nexus into execution mode in early 2014.
In addition to significant growth from its existing capacity Express-Platte is pursuing a number of opportunities some of which could require the deployment of large sums of capital above and beyond the $25 billion in expansion projects we discussed with you back in January.
We're looking at everything from expanding the system northward to oil sand supplies to doubling the capacity of the entire system from Hardisty Alberta to Wood River Illinois.
We're also exploring crude oil infrastructure opportunities beyond the Express-Platte footprint including projects on the Gulf Coast and in California.
We have several other projects along the Gulf Coast and development to support additional LNG exports as well as industrial infrastructure needs.
And as you know there are also a number of LNG export projects being considered on the West Coast to British Colombia including our partnership with the BG Group.
We're in the midst of the front-end engineering and design phase of that project and expect a final investment decision in the 2015 '16 timeframe.
We showed you this slide in January but thought it worthwhile revisiting as it summarizes the progress we're making on regional and segment basis.
When you add up the numbers you can see that we're poised to exceed our $25 billion end of decade target.
SEP is now a significant entity that will finance expansions across our U.S.
Transmission Crude Oil and Liquids businesses.
DCP Midstream will continue to finance its own growth and Spectra Energy will continue to finance the expansion of our Western Canada and Distribution segments.
The flexibility of this structure allows us to finance all of this growth in the most efficient manner possible.
That financial strength and flexibility allows us to focus on the future.
As we've discussed Spectra Energy is delivering on our commitments that should come as no surprise to you and the investors who have been with us for the long-term and know the track record.
What is noteworthy in my mind is the scale and scope of what we've delivered so far this year and the value creation foundation that that lays for investors.
We're in a good place today but we're always looking ahead to better.
That means we're focused on executing the $7 billion of expansion projects we have in the bucket today filling the bucket further by securing contracts for additional attractive new projects that expand our portfolio and create strong sustainable value realizing every means we have available from organic greenfield and brownfield expansions to get into new and existing demand markets to new lines of adjacent businesses to acquisitions and financial structuring operations that make strategic and economic sense for our investors.
The yardstick we use in evaluating any opportunity is its potential to create shareholder value.
We are meeting that mark and we look forward to continuing our track record of doing what we promise.
We shared a lot of information with you today and I hope we have conveyed the confidence and optimism that we're feeling.
It's been a very solid quarter and we're excited about what the future for Spectra Energy SEP and all of our investors holds.
With that let me turn things back over to John so we can take your questions.
Okay.
Operator we're ready to take questions.
If you'd give the instructions please.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you and I appreciate all the color around Express-Platte but I'm curious if you could give us a little bit more color around the cost and the timing of what you're considering and really trying to get a sense of if you had to rank the expansion dollars on a return on invested capital metric do you think that you get more of a benefit by expanding capacity to move Canadian crude more so into PADD 2 or is it more a situation where you can get further downstream leverage by adding more terminal and distribution capability.
Yes I think it's a bit of both.
Getting into PADD 2 obviously building on the existing footprint is very valuable.
But I think ultimately if we can expand the size and look this isn't a next year build if you will.
It's out a couple of years but it takes a long time to build that size of market.
I think if we can get that leverage right down the Wood River what it leaves is the opportunities to go further south.
And I think that's an opportunity that working with some of the players that we have historically some of the refiners and some of the other folks that own assets.
People see a real opportunity in value and being able to use existing right of ways existing pipe et cetera.
I'm not going through some of the challenges perhaps that others have on that front.
So I think it's across the whole piece if you will Darren as opposed to being in particular.
But again we'll try to give you some more details on that when we come out with our full plans in January and lay that at at that point in time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question for me has there been any update around how you guys look at realizing value for the general partner interest on DCP? I mean obviously we know the different levers that you can pull but just from your perspective in terms of monetizing that value any update on timing or how you're thinking about it? Well what we've said on that front is that 2014 is a pretty big year for GP and LP increases at DCP.
So as we're always doing and we'll always do we're considering that option and one of them as you say is looking at monetizing the GP side.
If shareholders in Spectra Energy and I guess technically PSX don't fully recognize that growth we expect to see in '14 then we'll look at the other alternatives.
But I would say that's something ongoing that we're doing at all the time Darren.
So we'll continue to update you as we get closer to a decision on that.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to first talk on the oil lines as well.
You mentioned Greg some higher rates on Express or at least on the presentation.
Can you give us some color for us just on where current flows are on Express can that 80% utilization rise to 100% without significant incremental costs and then how the rates are tracking relative to where your prior expectations were? Yes.
Well they were very much in line with our expectations.
They've gone up as you know you have an annual adjustment in those rates.
The 2 25 number that we've now secured you heard is about 80%.
We have to keep by requirement about 10% open.
So I guess technically you could get to 100% but I think more in that 90% ranges from Express-Platte on an ongoing basis.
So I think that -- recently signed contracts that we signed up kind of in that $5 range is the way I would think about that.
But again in line with what we expected.
What we didn't expect is obviously see greater utilization in those volume rates and I think really importantly particularly from a dividend perspective you're seeing the contracts go from call it 1.5 years to 11 years on average that's where we're really seeing the value.
And obviously when you fill up the pipe like that with committed contracts which are take and pay type contracts that's what really drives the need for those incremental investments as people see their opportunities that move product either out of Canada or further South.
Let's see if we can expand existing assets and take advantage there.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And you mentioned the consideration of value-enhancing structures and DCP just had a strong quarter.
You mentioned the IPO potentially thought process of the GP type IPO.
I wanted to know -- you're also considering as some sort of tax efficient way to get full value by selling your stake to Phillips 66? Is that something you guys would consider? And then second part is your view still that Western Canada is not appropriate for SEP at this time? Yes.
On the Western Canada side I know some others have looked at that but as you probably are aware we don't pay cash tax on our Canadian earnings bringing it down.
So that would be quite inefficient to do that.
Not to mention the cash taxes you would pay on that transaction would be significant so we don't see how that would hunt.
With respect to DCP yes look I mean everything is on the table.
I think as you know Steve and with an extremely negative tax basis which is a good thing that means we've taken a lot of cash out over it what a buyer for anybody's position in Spectra Energy -- Spectra Energy's DCP position would have to be very high to cover not only the tax bill it's probably getting close to a couple of billion dollars.
But obviously you've got to replace the earnings and cash that we get out of there which is not insubstantial as you know particularly as we start to see the assets that we put into service start to generate cash flow and I think it's fair to say that you -- we would expect to see an improvement in NGL prices over the next several years as those demands for those NGLs kick in.
So all of that is taken into consideration both at Spectra Energy but also in concert with Phillips 66 as well.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> As you think about some of the pipeline reversal projects out of the Northeast including those that you've announced and are pursuing on Texas Eastern how do you think about some of the markets that have historically been served by Western Canadian gas that are now looking at increasing market share gains by gas out of the Marcellus and the Utica? And does that changing supply dynamic alter the way that you look at your Canadian businesses? Well there's couple of things.
One think you're bang on.
I think the Alberta Gas has some real challenges if you look -- because that gas has moved along the mainline system in TransCanada into Ontario and the markets in the East and obviously the Northeast U.S.
and as you just pointed out when you get the Marcellus well in excess of 10 Bcf a day you don't need to utilize that pipe to the same extent.
BC which is where most of our assets are and where we process about 60% of the gas that gas has always comes -- what -- to largely comes south historically in any event.
And if you look at that that's going to continue to come south.
But importantly it's going to offshore by LNG.
And I think you see our projects in several of other projects that are going to be important obviously for the continued development up there.
In the center part I think the Great Lakes region it does-- that decline in Western Canadian Eastern flows does make us think about things differently and NEXUS is a great example.
NEXUS is an example that I hope early next year we'll have to tell you we're moving into execution and there you see a desire by Eastern customers and Marcellus and Utica producers to push gas into Ontario and Qubec and go around the Horn up further East.
And that's why I think those types of projects which you would even thought of 3 or 4 years ago make a whole lot of sense.
And obviously our ownership in Union Gas and Enbridge's ownership and Enbridge's distribution and DTE's ownership in Michigan helped to ensure those types of projects can be realized for the benefit not only of shareholders but customers in the region.
So I think a lot of different things are at play when you look at that Bradley.
We're seeing upwards of 700 to 1 Bcf of gas blowing it south now on a regular occasion.
And I think that's the way things are going to go forward and that's without putting out a bunch of compression.
So the nice part is we can deliver for our customers into the North East in particular things like New Jersey New York we could move customers into the Southeast and obviously with projects like Florida I think there's an opportunity to use the line in that basis as well.
So the value of Texas Eastern for us I'm concerned is actually going up each and every day partly because of those Western Canadian dynamics.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes that makes a lot of sense.
And when you discussed the Gulf market expansion as $150 million a day out of the Northeast in terms of gas flows a project that I don't think you mentioned was the Union Dale the gas city project that I know it's been out there in the market and you have some commitments for.
What could potentially either upsize the Gulf expansion just given the huge lack of takeaway that I think Northeastern producers are facing over the next few years? And what could move the you U2GP into execution? Well I think -- first of all I think what we said was the Gulf project is $150 million but it's actually got 650 million cubic feet a day of capacity on it.
So that's a lot of gas moving.
Obviously the Union Gas to gas city piece we've just -- that project is running around 425 million cubic feet per day.
Relatively small $60 million project but I think what it does do is really if we get much above that.
We're going to see some opportunity to further expand that opportunity -- expand that growth.
Really what will make it even go bigger I think is just the continual increase as producers realize how much gas is actually being produced in the Utica and Marcellus and we're really looking for outlets.
And so I don't think there's any magic so to speak on the demand side.
I think the demand side is coming along.
I really think it's the producers side that's really looking for those markets to happen.
The demand side is probably a little further out but as you know from a producer perspective it's often we're not quite ready yet and we're not quite ready to sign up and I was like where is it where is it and so we're trying to be on the front end of that to be able to exceed on that front.
I think the other opportunity we're seeing opportunities in Louisiana and be able to expand projects like the Gulf project in Louisiana.
Everything from gas-to-liquids types transactions that's not ready for prime time yet but I think those are getting closer and you'll see further therefore opportunities for us to reverse flow into the Gulf Coast regions for demand purposes such as that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just one more if I may on the strategic side.
Given all of the projects in the Northeast and around Texas Eastern as well as the growth in DCP.
It does appear that there is -- when you include the Canadian business there is a persistent discount in terms of the way that you guys trade against some of your peers.
And you mentioned earlier how the low tax basis in your Canadian business kind of limits your ability or maybe reduces the attractiveness of some potential spinoffs or IPOs or alternatives for the Canadian business.
Now if I'm understanding the tax basis issue it effectively reduces your ability to pay or to fully pay out dividends from West Coast to your U.S.
based SE shareholders.
So is it right to say that this tax leakage will be created by a spinoff or is it more accurate to say that the tax leakage is already impairing the cash payout to U.S.
shareholders and it would just be realizing that tax leakage all at once to do a spinoff.
Well 2 different things when we were talking about the tax leak that was vis--vis putting some of those Canadian assets into the MLP.
You could spin out part of the Canadian assets with some tax leakage but not a ton.
But I guess I would suggest that when you look at where those Canadian assets might trade relative to the peers in those locations we actually don't see a discount from the way they trade inside Spectra Energy Brad so that's a bigger issue.
Secondly we also have a lot of CapEx up there an opportunity and size is a very important issue for our customers particularly on the LNG front.
And then lastly strategically important as I pointed out with NEXUS the Union Gas assets inside the Spectra family serve 2 really important purposes: one from a credit perspective and two to be able to support things like the NEXUS type projects.
So I don't think it's just a valuation perspective and I wouldn't say there is the type of valuation discount that you look at -- when you look at what Canadian midstream assets trade at and Canadian utilities vis--vis where we see those trading inside of Union.
And the tax issue in Canada was more for the MLP if you sold off Canada you take a tax issue but the spin wouldn't be that case.
As we've said look I mean we may look at everything and reevaluate them all the time Brad but I think the greatest opportunity right now for shareholders is really around being able to realize the value for CP [ph] and LP cash flows at DCP.
And we'll continue to work with 66 DCP and ourselves to see how best to realize that.
Research Division</strong> I'll move the discussion back a little bit to fundamentals and ask if you could give us some more information relative to the impact of propane on the quarter.
There seems to be a very bifurcated propane market right now shortages in the Midwest those kinds of things.
It's not quite a year ago we were talking about propane as a drag on the earnings and now certainly it does seem better.
So if you could update us relative to the commodity leverage factors that we should be watching for I'd appreciate that.
Yes I think propane is a good thing to look at kind of north of $1 on propane what we're seeing right now and relative to the quarter I think we went from $0.70 to about $1 in that perspective.
Is that right? In overall our NGL barrel was $0.72 to $0.78 and propane was a big driver in that Curt.
And as you know we're really effected in 2 places.
One is in Western Canada at our Empress processing plant.
Our earnings were up $32 million there this year over last year where we had losses and that's really driven by propane.
And then in Field Services higher commodity prices helped us almost $20 million this quarter versus a year ago.
Propane is up about 16% year-over-year in this quarter.
So that's been very helpful to have it stabilize around the $1 a gallon.
I think the other dynamic that you're seeing is twofold.
There is good piece on Wall Street Journal this morning or last night that you may have seen on crop drying as smart as everybody is on their models and stuff I think we often forget that often this business both on the gas and NGL side its about weather weather and weather.
And crop drying often unforgotten about how that impacts things that you're seeing that the some of your points really in the Midwest.
And then of course the export side of things.
As those exports elements kick in we think that puts a nice floor around propane and barring not having a winter in the fourth quarter we think that gives us a nice opportunity to do well in the fourth quarter on those commodity fronts as well.
I think really I just have a few cleanup questions at this point.
But actually maybe Greg first on NEXUS I appreciate the timing of maybe getting 2 contracts here at year end with the LDCs.
Just to clarify then does any producer support needed to move that forward? And really was it the settlement perhaps with TransCanada that kind of derisked this project to allow it to move forward? Or I guess I just want to make sure if there any other gating factors we have to be aware of between now and when this might move into execution? Oh yes absolutely.
We -- well 2 things.
One I think the settlement with TransCanada which was largely around as you know long-haul rates et cetera and elements of that I think valuable for both TransCanada as well as the 3 LDCs involved.
Definitely you would need producers support to move this project forward.
The LDC has just become a nice for their own reasons around diversity of supply and price a nice help in terms of underwriting a considerable portion.
But the vast majority of this would still have to be taken up with producers and what I'm saying is that I think we can get the long ways down the trail by having the LDCs sign up the contracts and we are starting to see producers again given the type of volumes being developed and in fact realized and produced in the Utica and the Marcellus now looking for what are their other alternatives.
So I would not say this project could move forward the LDCs on their own in any way shape or form.
We will need producer support there Carl.
Okay.
No appreciate the clarification.
And then actually just a couple of small questions maybe for Pat and just going to the Field Services DPM equity issuances so we have our models ticked and tied.
Can you tell us what the accounting gain was in the third quarter and I guess year-to-date if there were any in the first half of the year if I recall correctly I think it was roughly $35 million that was in guidance was that about right? We had about $35 million in the budget for the year in our guidance.
Our equity issuance gains in the third quarter our share of that were $41 million and year-to-date they are $91 million.
Year-to-date at $91 million Okay Correct.
And then last question you had and I appreciate I guess the emphasis on the noncontrolling interest with respect to the MLP and the difference between the EPS solution on the cash flow accretion.
So you mentioned with the last 2 months here we might get a $0.02 to $0.03 negative impact on EPS.
Do you have a sense of what the cash flow accretion would be at the same time? We're really not updating our cash flow expectations either for SEP or for SE.
We did at the time in August that we announced the big drop we did indicate that cash available for distribution for SEP next year will be about $900 million on a full year basis.
And you could I suppose between SE and SEP you could prorate that for maybe 2/12 of the year for November-December and maybe get close.
But we're at this point really not going to update our CAD or DCF outlook.
Research Division</strong> So I just want to make sure that the looking the earnings of DCP I know that Carl asked the questions there but Phillips had mentioned some sort of hedging gain I know you guys don't hedge but I just want to make sure there wasn't any other sort of number sort of baked into the results? No.
I mean I think you really seeing as I think we've laid it out in the slide you're seeing really bigger volumes due to the asset growth which was the biggest impact frankly from a positive perspective and the business front a pickup from commodity price and lower cost is really what you're seeing.
But nothing on the hedging front.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And just on the New York-New Jersey pipeline how do those -- can you give me kind of granularity how do those flows sort of ramp-up is that once you turn the pipe on it's immediately [indiscernible]linked into the market? Or it does it -- or there -- does it ramp-up slowly and then is there some big displacement it takes place in other parts of the market that kind of result in I guess a lower basis differential into the city? Well Faisel with 1 day in operation I can tell you the pipe is full and that is desperately needed chunk of pipe and I think we're around 700 million or 800 million cubic feet a day in terms of nominations and frankly I'm sure we all wished we'd built even a bigger pipe given the importance of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then do you guys have an idea kind of what the impact to your kind of your crude oil sort of pipeline business would be with the addition of Pony Express sort of coming online kind of in the next several months.
Does that help your business does it hurt your business how does that work for you? Well it doesn't hurt I mean in terms of more flows and -- but again now that we've contracted basically up to almost full capacity in pipe barring what we're required to hold for walk-up customers if you will it really doesn't have a huge impact Faisel.
Maybe it'll have some impact on the being able to use the other 10% and being able to get full value for those rates.
So sure isn't the negative but from a contractual growth perspective I don't think it's a large impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just on the Florida pipeline do you guys have to make orders for sort of long lead time items now? Or do you wait to get through the FERC filings process? No no no.
We can't wait to get all the way through the FERC filings process.
So I mean we're -- make the FERC filings process be getting as 27 months or so.
So we would start to order and/or hold mill space for example for pipe and any compressor work so we'll start to do that.
Now the good thing with obviously with the $25 billion worth of projects if for some unforeseen reason you didn't need all those assets you could use them in other pipes.
So we always given the size of the company given the size of the projects we don't wait to last time to order that stuff and sometimes Faisel you can lock in good pricing from that perspective and obviously reduce some of your cost risk as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of that the large backlog of projects I mean is it true that the company is also sort of filled large backlog of projects too? How do you guys mitigate sort of the-- some of the labor and see sort of these issues -- are you seeing any type next year I mean there seemed to be a lot of people that are targeting 2017 2018 for a lot of projects to come online.
And so...
We haven't yet.
And we've been -- we've built 55 or 60 projects over the last 4 or 5 years and every once in a while you run into issues but I would still say the biggest issue particularly on the lower 48 is still weather.
When we ran into issues around construction it's usually been around weather on the construction end and on the front end it's just making sure you get through the regulatory side of things.
So you can build when you say you will build.
But so far we have not seen a lot of tightness on the labor side or on the steel side and I think partially on the labor side not everybody is going to move to build the pipeline or at least the actual individuals from say Florida 1 month and then up into New Jersey New York even the next year kind of thing.
So I think you're seeing a relatively good spread.
And of course on things like product whether it's compressors or steel those are globally priced stuff and so while we continue to see weakness in some other parts of the world we are not seeing pressure on the cost.
The one delta I would point out is that I think Western Canada and I think you see that with a lot of big oil projects in Western Canada that's a tight labor market with a lot of growth and you've seen that in some of the projects right across the entire industry.
So that's one of the caveat I put out there but the lower 48 so far so good.
Research Division</strong> On NEXUS just going back to the linkages maybe between that and the agreement with TransCanada it feels like the project has have been over-accelerated since last quarter now with firmer agreements possibly in place by year end.
I'm just wondering if that is partly coincident with the TransCanada agreement not because utilities can take more capacity on NEXUS but because maybe the producers feel more confident that once the Utica gas gets up into Ontario it can move around to where it needs to get to and the TransCanada won't sort of gum-up the system.
Is that the sort of the way to look at it Greg? Well I think that's fair.
I mean as I said in terms of getting agreements by the end of the year I think what I've said was LDC agreements so I'm not convinced we're going to have all the producer agreements yet in place but I think that's the first step and then get the producers inside.
But there's no doubt the idea of being able to move gas along the backbone in Ontario which is you know we own the Dawn-Trafalgar line that's an important component being able to sell that the project and the opportunity.
So I think fair comment but again we've got to get producers on site first so I don't want to overstate by the end of the year the present agreements on the LDC front the producers stuff is still to come.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Moving to Express-Platte an interesting commentary on possibly doubling it or expending it.
I wondering if you thought about whether that order require a presidential permit and if so what would your strategy be politically would it be the wait on Enbridge and TransCanada and see how they do on that front or to just go ahead with shipper commitments and hope that falls your way? No you look at it if you change the pipeline you're going to need the presidential permit.
I mean I know there's one presidential permit that everybody focuses on actually but there are presidential permits done on a regular basis.
And I guess this would be a project or a build out that would be post 2016; I would also point out just given where it's late 2013.
So you wouldn't need all that place in till later.
And no we wouldn't wait on to see what Enbridge and TransCanada is doing and we have our own competitive reasons to move forward if you got support.
They would pursue their own projects that may or may not provide similar or like services.
Research Division</strong> My questions have been asked and answered.
LLC Research Division</strong> Greg first for you if you did want to get a mark on the GP of DPM of being DCP Midstream LLC over time do you see that as a pure play? Would you drop most of the assets down the DPM? Or from a tax efficiency standpoint could you drop any of those assets to SEP or PSXP? Okay fine.
I think on the GP said it's not contingent in dropping a bunch of assets into the DPM.
I mean we have put out numbers that by 2014 you've got a couple of hundred million dollars of GP and LP cash flows coming to DCP from DPM.
I think you have to be a little careful about dropping all those assets into DPM because remember there's large commodity exposure there which would have require to a very large coverage ratio at DPM which might actually not serve you that well and we hold that risk today in any event.
So we'd have to think through that.
We would not see moving any of the DPM assets that are commodity-based anyways moving into SEP.
That being said as you know we moved -- our Sand Hills and Southern Hills are proportioned into SEP.
I think that's because of the general fee-based nature of those assets.
So to the extent both types of assets exist that's definitely something we'd consider.
And we're certainly watching Ross we're watching how others that have done this how their units are trading and what it's doing for the parents.
You can look like at planes who took their GP public recently at $22 and it's trading at about $22 today.
We've taken a look at western gas and whether that has or hasn't moved the needle for Anadarko.
So it's really not about creating another currency to trade out there.
It's really can you give value uplift for Spectra Energy; and if you can we and I'm sure our partner would be very open to that.
So it is no reluctance.
We've talked about the same thing with the Canadian assets as Greg mentioned.
2/3 of our income up there is regulated and so if you look at a comparable regulated entity like a Fortis they trade at 10x we think we're trading at 12x.
So we're being very thoughtful about this.
We're all about creating value where we can with partial spins or a partial IPOs makes sense in our particular circumstances we're very interested in that.
You noticed that others that who've talked about dropping Canadian assets are going to pay a couple hundred million in taxes and they might need to do that to improve coverage.
Our coverage is above 1.
So you got to think about the facts and circumstances really of each company and we're being very very thoughtful about that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
I just want to make sure I'm clear on the tax consequences.
Obviously there's probably not too many tax consequences if you did move additional assets down to DPM but I wanted to ask if you wanted to move assets out of DCP Midstream LLC directly to SEP or PSXP from a tax standpoint and I know there are commodity issues there from a tax standpoint would there be issues to dropping to those particular MLPs? Generally speaking no.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then one final question given the potential to loop Express it doesn't take you a lot to get over to Texas Eastern or maybe repurpose one of those pipes bring crude South is that something you're thinking about or something we can maybe expect in the future? Yes thanks Ross.
Moving Texas Eastern south is not something we're thinking out.
We'd look at different ways.
Remember Texas Eastern is full.
And so I know some other pipes they've been able to repurpose the oil.
But when your pipe is fully utilized and contracted I know like the contracts again they came up for renewal this year 98% plus recontracted.
So we don't have holes in our pipe for lack of utilization.
So I don't see that being the way in which we would go.
Just a quick question concerning Allstate corridor[ph] holders and particularly on the credit side so there's a lot of discussion of structuring.
So can you sort of remind the marketplace with respect to Spectra Energy to C-Corp what your policy is around credit ratings presently and going forward? And how you would take care of your bondholders keeping in mind any type of restructuring actions that you may or may not undertake at the C-Corp? Josh this is Pat.
That's a great question because I don't want to leave you the call today without emphasizing that when we think about structure we do think about the impact on all our stakeholders including on the fixed income side and one of the things that has been an objective of ours with the drop of a big portion of our assets to Spectra Energy Partners obviously from a structural subordination standpoint we're moving those assets one entity away from where they were from SE capital's perspective and that can put some pressure on your rating.
It's been our objective to remain investment grade rated at Spectra Energy Capital and Spectra Energy.
We think it's important to have dry powder.
You saw that we are able to use SE to acquire Express-Platte when that wouldn't have made sense to acquire at the MLP because of some tax considerations.
So being able to do some things at top is helpful.
Having said that we are retiring quite a bit of debt at SE Capital.
We'll be down to about $3 billion after the drop.
So most of the new debt will in fact be raised in the U.S.
down at Spectra Energy Partners.
But it's not our desire to let our SE Capital ratings go we still think that's important to the extent we can influence of that outcome.
Okay and with that we're out of time today.
So I'd like to thank everyone for joining us on the call.
We do look forward to seeing you tomorrow either in New York for breakfast or Boston for lunch to those who are going to able to join us.
And for your 2014 planning calendars we do plan to announce our fourth quarter and year end results on February 4 and we plan to host an Analyst Meeting in New York on the following day February 5 to share our 2014 business plans for Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners.
As always if you have any additional questions please feel free to call Roni Cappadonna Derick Smith or me and with that thank you for joining us today.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
My name is Natalia and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the fourth quarter Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners earnings call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now turn the call over to Ms.
Julie Dill.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you Natalia and good morning everyone.
I'm Julie Dill the Chief Communications Officer for Spectra Energy.
Thanks all for joining us today for our review of Spectra Energy's 2013 Fourth Quarter and Year-End Results.
Before I hand the call over to Pat Reddy our CFO I'd like to mention a few items.
You likely noticed in our press release this morning that we've made a number of changes to our financial reporting as a result of the drop-down to SEP and substantially all the U.S.
pipeline storage and liquid assets on November 1 of last year.
I'd like to walk through those with you now in some detail to ensure you're aware of all changes you'll be seeing.
Let me start with Spectra Energy.
We have a new reporting segment we call Spectra Energy Partners.
This segment includes all U.S.
Transmission and our liquids business as well which as you know reflects our crude and natural gas liquid assets.
For financial reporting purposes Maritimes and Northeast Canada is now reflected in our Western Canada Transmission &amp; Processing segment.
Previously it was included as the part of U.S.
Transmission.
As a note that asset was not included in the November 2013 drop-down.
Our segment financials have been recast to reflect these changes so all variances will be on a comparable basis.
Now what we heard from you is that EBITDA and distributable cash flow will be more relevant financial measures going forward because of the greater emphasis on cash flow and cash generation capabilities associated with the drop-down.
Consequently our primary financial reporting will be of those metrics.
Our definition of EBITDA has changed just slightly.
The EBITDA measure we'll use today and going forward differs from the proportional EBITDA we previously reported which included our share of interest taxes and depreciation associated with our unconsolidated subsidiaries and was reduced for minority interests in those same items.
Our new EBITDA metric is more aligned with our peers and represents EBIT and depreciation for consolidated entities along with the equity earnings of our joint ventures.
This will make our EBITDA more transparent and easier to calculate.
Now our EBITDA will reflect what is reported on the financial statements.
These changes again in response to what we heard from you as it will more closely align our reporting to that of our peers and should provide easier analysis as numbers will be more readily identifiable from the financial statements.
For Spectra Energy Partners the Gas Transmission and Storage segment has been renamed U.S.
Transmission.
SEP's other reporting segments are Liquids and Other.
We're now using the term distributable cash flow instead of cash available for distribution.
And EBITDA has been recast for 2012 and 2013 as if SEP owned all the U.S.
assets from January 1 2012 and as if SEP owned all of the Express-Platte as of March 14 2013.
This recasting was done as a direct requirement of our accounting rules.
Distributable cash flow was not recast because we're required to reflect the cash as it actually flowed.
We also did not recast any of our financing or number of outstanding units.
One final note you'll notice that EBITDA for SEP will be slightly different than the EBITDA reported in the Spectra Energy Partners segment within Spectra Energy.
This is related to the charges SEP pays to SE for services rendered in support of the partnership and because SEP reports its own corporate Other when it's reported as a stand-alone company.
At the Spectra Energy consolidated level those same amounts are included in corporate Other not within the SEP segment.
So there is lots of changes to be sure.
And if you need some help navigating through all these my team and I will be very happy to assist.
Now a quick reminder that we will roll out our 2014 business outlook and 3-year financial plan tomorrow morning in New York and we look forward to seeing many of you there.
For those who can't make it the meeting will be webcast and details are included on our website at spectraenergy.com and spectraenergypartners.com.
Now given our forward-looking in-depth focus tomorrow I anticipate today's call maybe a bit shorter than usual though of course we'll allow ample time for your questions related to our 2013 results and the reporting changes we've made.
For today's call Pat Reddy our Chief Financial Officer for both Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners will go through our results for the quarter and the year; and then Greg Ebel our President and CEO will wrap up the call with some closing thoughts on the year and what to look forward to in 2014.
So let's get started.
Some of what we'll discuss today concerning future company performance will be forward-looking information within the meanings of the securities laws.
Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements and you should refer to the additional information contained in Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners' Form 10-K and other filings made with the SEC concerning factors that could cause those results to differ from those contemplated in today's discussion.
As this is a joint presentation the terms we our and us refer to Spectra Energy and/or Spectra Energy Partners as appropriate.
And in addition today's discussion will include certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC Regulation G.
A reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available on our website.
And with that let me now turn things over to Pat.
Thank you Julie and good morning everyone.
And thanks for joining us today as we report on our fourth quarter results and 2013 performance.
As Julie explained we're transitioning our reporting to reflect the structural changes implemented in late 2013 with the drop-down of the U.S.
assets to Spectra Energy Partners.
As a result we will be focused on EBITDA and distributable cash flow as our primary measures going forward.
With that said we thought it would be useful in the transition to share with you our fourth quarter and full year 2013 net income earnings per share and EBIT results for the company and by business segment just as we did for the other quarters in 2013.
We reported $0.41 in ongoing earnings per share and $278 million in ongoing earnings for the fourth quarter compared with $0.32 of EPS and earnings of $213 million in the 2012 quarter.
For the year we delivered ongoing earnings of $1.64 per share or $1.1 billion in ongoing earnings.
That's an almost 15% increase over the last year and a 9% increase over the target we shared with you at the beginning of the year.
And as a reminder our earnings per share for the fourth quarter and for the full year 2013 were reduced by the drop-down transaction which resulted in an increase in noncontrolling interest or NCI.
This solution is inline with the $0.02 to $0.03 reduction in EPS we communicated to you last November when we announced the transactions closing.
Ongoing EBIT results for the quarter were $603 million compared with $474 million in the prior year.
The EBIT summarized here is at the 100% level prior to NCI reductions.
This is different from the EBIT we discussed previously which was net of the NCI reductions.
You'll also notice that we have a new reporting segment Spectra Energy Partners.
As Julie explained this segment includes the combined results of the Liquids segment and our former U.S.
Transmission segment excluding Maritimes &amp; Northeast Canada which is now reflected in Western Canadian results.
I'm not going to go through the variances quarter-to-quarter for EBIT as I will do that using EBITDA.
So let's take a look at our fourth quarter EBITDA results.
Slide 6 shows fourth quarter EBITDA for our 4 reporting segments and Other which represents our corporate governance costs.
This EBITDA measure is slightly different than the proportional EBITDA we reported on in the past.
Specifically the EBITDA that we previously provided included our share of interest taxes and depreciation associated with unconsolidated subsidiaries and was reduced for minority interest in those same items.
Now EBITDA is more aligned with our peers and represents EBIT and depreciation for consolidated entities along with the equity earnings of our joint ventures.
This will make our EBITDA more transparent and easier to calculate.
So let's start with the Spectra Energy Partners segment which includes 2 businesses: U.S.
Transmission and Liquids.
SEP's ongoing EBITDA was $369 million compared with $316 million in 2012.
Quarterly results benefited greatly from the acquisition of the remainder of the Express-Platte Pipeline System which has performed better than expected due to higher revenues.
The increased earnings also reflects the contributions from pipeline expansions including the New Jersey-New York project placed into service November 1.
Year-end EBITDA for SEP was about $1.4 billion compared with approximately $1.3 billion in 2012.
Turning to Distribution.
That segment reported fourth quarter EBITDA of $156 million compared with $147 million in 2012.
The increase is due to higher customer rates colder weather and the negative effect in the fourth quarter of 2012 of the decision from the Ontario Energy Board requiring certain transportation revenues be refunded to customers.
Partially offset by higher operating and fuel costs and a weaker Canadian dollar.
Year-end reported EBITDA for Distribution was $574 million compared with $587 million in 2012.
Our Western Canada business reported fourth quarter EBITDA of $215 million compared with $152 million in 2012.
The increase was primarily due to higher earnings at the Empress natural gas liquids business attributable mainly to higher propane sales prices improved contracting structures and lower cost compared to fourth quarter of last year.
You'll recall that in the fourth quarter of 2012 we realized an EBITDA loss of $13 million in Empress and this year Empress recorded EBITDA of $52 million a $65 million improvement.
We did a lot of work this past year to stabilize realized cash flows in Empress.
And tomorrow Mark Fiedorek will talk about our continued plans to de-risk this asset and reduce the margin volatility we've historically seen at Empress.
Our expansion projects did contribute positively to our EBITDA.
These increases were partially offset by the effect of a weaker Canadian dollar.
Year-end reported EBITDA for this segment was $736 million compared with $694 million in 2012.
Field Services reported fourth quarter EBITDA of $72 million compared with $58 million in 2012.
The change in EBITDA is attributable primarily to higher commodity prices and a favorable effect of NGL marketing and the positive movement on hedges associated with drop-downs to DCP Midstream Partners.
Higher earnings due to volume growth from the incremental processing capacity placed into service was more than offset by fourth quarter 2013 weather effects in the Permian Basin and higher interest expense primarily as a result of newly issued debt and lower capitalized interest in the 2013 quarter.
During the fourth quarters of 2013 and 2012 respectively DCP's realized NGL prices averaged $0.81 per gallon versus $0.77.
NYMEX natural gas averaged $3.60 versus $3.40 and crude oil averaged $97 per barrel versus $88.
Year-end reported EBITDA for Field Services was $343 million compared with $279 million in 2012.
DCP Midstream paid distributions of $215 million to Spectra Energy during 2013 compared with $203 million in 2012.
Other as I mentioned is comprised primarily of corporate costs including benefits and captive insurance.
Net ongoing costs were $14 million in the fourth quarter compared with $10 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Year-end ongoing costs for Other were $59 million compared with $36 million in 2012 with the increase primarily related to equity-based benefit cost.
Total ongoing EBITDA for the Enterprise was $798 million for the quarter and just over $3 billion for the year.
So let's move to our other new metric for Spectra Energy distributable cash flow.
For those of you who follow our MLP you're accustomed to seeing distributable cash flow but this is a new metric for Spectra Energy at the corporate level.
We think this is an important measure for you to follow as it will focus on the strength of our cash flows and our ability to pay and grow the dividend for our investors.
Distributable cash flow for the 2013 quarter was $296 million compared with $161 million in 2012.
For the year DCF was approximately $1.2 billion compared with about $1 billion in 2012.
This schedule is fairly straightforward but I wanted to highlight a few of the more material items.
2013 interest expense was up compared with 2012 due to higher debt balances primarily related to the acquisition of Express-Platte and lower capitalized interest partially offset by a weaker Canadian dollar.
2013 cash taxes benefited from higher extended bonus depreciation.
And lastly maintenance CapEx for the year came in around $680 million about $40 million more than 2012 primarily due to a 2013 plant turnaround in Western Canada.
Let's look at Spectra Energy.
So now let's turn our attention to results of Spectra Energy Partners.
SEP reported strong results in the fourth quarter which closed out a great year of transformative acquisitions continued solid performance from our fee-based assets and substantial distribution growth for our unitholders.
As Julie mentioned at the beginning of the call for comparative purposes SEP's distributable cash flow reflects the acquisitions as they occurred since cash is cash with no special accounting treatment.
However EBITDA is reflected on this chart has been recast as if the acquisition of the U.S.
Transmission assets occurred January 1 2012 and the Express-Platte acquisition occurred as of March 14 2013.
So as you can see the segments delivered strong results across the board.
U.S.
Transmission produced $326 million in EBITDA for the quarter and $1.3 billion for the year.
Increased earnings were driven by expansion projects on our Texas Eastern pipeline most notably contributions from the New Jersey-New York project.
Our Liquids business delivered $41 million in EBITDA for the quarter and $132 million for the year.
We're very pleased with the contributions to our financial results that we're seeing from the Express-Platte System.
In fact the Express-Platte delivered EBITDA in the 9 months we owned it equal to what we thought our first full year of EBITDA would be.
Duane Rae will talk to you tomorrow about these assets the value we've already captured and the opportunities we continue to see that will grow this segment's EBITDA.
Next SEP's ongoing EBITDA for Other reflected higher costs for both the year and the quarter primarily as a result of governance costs following the November 2013 drop-down.
You'll also notice that ongoing 2013 EBITDA reported for SEP is slightly lower than EBITDA reflective within Spectra Energy's results.
The difference represents the cost of services rendered by the Spectra Energy in support of the SEP what we call governance.
These amounts are included in the Spectra Energy's Corporate Other at the SE level but SEP reports this on corporate others as stand-alone company.
In total SEP's ongoing EBITDA for the year was $1.4 billion up from about $1.3 billion in 2012.
I know you're particularly interested in distributable cash flow so let's move there.
First you'll see that we renamed cash available for distribution to distributable cash flow to be more consistent with the terminology used by other MLPs.
For the quarter distributable cash flows was $120 million more than double the $54 million recorded in the 2012 quarter.
Dcf for the quarter and the year was driven significantly higher by the November 1 drop-down of Spectra Energy's U.S.
Transmission Storage and Liquids assets and by the addition of the Express-Platte assets.
These acquired assets bring quality fee-based distributable cash flows and future growth from organic expansions over the coming years.
We'll have more to say about our growth tomorrow at our analyst meeting.
These strong financial results enabled us to deliver our 25th consecutive quarterly distribution increase of $0.03 per unit bringing us to the annual distribution equivalent of $2.185 for the limited [ph] partner unit.
That's 10% above of the annualized distribution of the year ago and reflects our continued commitment to deliver unitholder value.
The $0.03 increase was a significant one-time recognition of the acquisition of the U.S.
assets.
So going forward you can expect at least a $0.01 per unit increase per quarter.
As anticipated we saw distribution coverage dip this quarter below one-times primarily driven by just 2 months of cash contributions from the acquisition of the U.S.
assets offset by the full quarters distribution increase.
Fourth quarter 2013 was unique and the coverage ratios should not be viewed as being indicative of future coverage.
As we've previously stated and as you'll see tomorrow that reinforce when we go through our planned numbers we continue to expect our ongoing distribution coverage to be between 1.05x to 1.15x.
So to conclude Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners delivered great financial results and created substantial shareholder value in 2013.
So let me turn the call back to Greg to wrap up.
Well thanks very much Pat.
As you said 2013 really was a strong year for Spectra Energy Spectra Energy Partners and for our investors.
Beyond the financial results it exceeded our commitments to investors in the reliable attractive dividend and distribution growth we've been able to deliver.
I did want to take a minute to highlight a few other successes in 2013.
Spectra Energy exceeded the S&amp;P 500 averaged shareholder return and SEP's return surpassed the Alerian MLP Index.
We placed $6 billion of capital into service either through the expansion of our assets like New Jersey-New York or those at DCP or from the acquisition of new assets like the Express-Platte System and our interest in Sand Hills and Southern Hills NGL pipelines.
We secured $7 billion of new growth opportunities.
Projects like our Sabal Trail pipeline into Florida AIM OPEN and the Gulf markets expansion.
We successfully completed the drop-down of our remaining U.S.
pipeline assets to SEP creating a $20 billion MLP with premier fee-based assets and an attractive distribution growth profile.
We implemented a strategy at Empress that de-risks our earnings stream and that translates into an expected annual EBITDA in the $40 million to $70 million range.
We completed a successful open season on Express pipeline resulting in 90% of the capacity now being committed for more than a decade and at higher rates.
Union Gas reached a settlement on its 2014 to 2018 incentive rate structure which ensures a stable platform for growth and with earnings upside.
And we maintain the investment-grade ratings across all of our entities and even secured an upgrade rating for SEP.
With our first and last mile advantage over the last 12 months we furthered our leading positions in not only natural gas transportation in the Northeast and Southeast U.S.
but also gathering and processing of natural gas in North America.
Natural gas distribution in Ontario NGL Production and Logistics in the U.S.
and Western Canada and we made a very positive move into the crude oil transportation business.
I'm pretty pleased with the year-end real value we have delivered to our investors.
The successes of the past year leave us well-positioned for the future and provide great momentum as we move into 2014.
We're going to take full advantage of this positive momentum and continue to deliver attractive returns for our investors now and over the longer term.
And I'm looking forward to talking with you more tomorrow about what you can expect from us in 2014 and going forward.
We appreciate you joining us today and your ongoing interest in Spectra Energy and SEP.
And with that let me turn things over to Julie so that we can take your questions about 2013.
Thank you Greg and again thanks.
We're ready to hear from you so we're going to open the lines up for your questions.
So we look forward to being with you tomorrow to discuss our 2014 outlook.
So I'd ask that your questions this morning focus on our 2013 fourth quarter and year-end results.
So Natalia if you wouldn't mind giving instructions again on how to ask questions.
I'd appreciate that.
[Operator Instructions] We have a question from the line of Stephen Maresca with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So I'll be brief.
Just one casual question and then just one fundamental question.
On distributable cash flow - you're now breaking this out for SE and thanks for doing that - it seems like coverage for your dividend based on the fourth quarter and full year was around $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion.
And I guess -- can you just remind us as the target for SE to be in that $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion range and then how does this fit into -- if you got this excess coverage your stated dividend growth of 9% to 10%? Yes we're still expecting to be in that $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion.
And in fact I think Q4 number was more like $1.5 billion and if you looked at it from a numbers perspective.
But yes we'll outline this tomorrow but absolutely still expect to be in that $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion range.
Obviously if we're doing a lot better than that that would suggest we have more room.
So that's just something to watch for from prospective over the longer term.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then the second one is just fundamentally can you give any update on the NEXUS project in terms of discussions to LTC's [ph] design agreements and how that's progressing? You're going to hear from Mr.
Yardley about that tomorrow.
So Steve if you will indulge us but let's chat about that tomorrow.
Your next question is from the line of Brad Olsen with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones for me.
First looks like Canadian results even leaving aside the impact of Maritimes &amp; Northeast were about -- were up about $60 million year-over-year.
I know one of your objectives for this year was to reduce the amount of commodity sensitivity in that business.
And although upward commodities sensitivity is obviously better than downward and I was wondering how to reconcile the really strong fourth quarter results in Western Canada with your objectives to reduce some of the propane exposure? Well I think a couple of things to say there.
One really as I think we talked about the focus in '13 was much more on contracting structure so commercial issue and how we get product and sell the product.
In 2014 really at the start we've started to put some hedging in place.
But it's still going to be a relatively small piece.
So I'd say at any 1 point in time there's probably only about 45% of the margin that you would hedge if you will from a commodity perspective.
The rest of it's all going to be from commercial structures.
You might recall if you go back to 2012 in that second quarter period we saw the big drop that was because we got outside from a contracting perspective and what we pay for the input product versus what we could sell it.
And between PADD and the commercial guys they've made a real effort to break those down.
So as I said Brad I think thinking $40 million to $70 million in EBITDA we feel pretty comfortable in that range.
And that being said obviously much higher commodity prices that you're seeing in the first quarter are a real positive as well.
So I think though the whole complex there in Western Canada has got a little bit more stable commercial outlook.
When I say the whole complex it's not just our assets but the entire - both the consumers the producers providing us an obviously the infrastructure players into a more shall we say a rational approach to how they're dealing with the commercial issues.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I guess following up on your comments about the contracting.
Is it fair to say even as propane prices have climbed pretty dramatically here recently that we wouldn't expect to see the impact of the extraction premiums that caused you the headaches in 2012? I think that's fair.
Of course the market bounced around but as I said I think there's a more rational approach from a commercial perspective.
And I think I'm comfortable in saying the entire area if they realizes those extraction premiums weren't sustainable from a business perspective.
And Brad this is Pat.
We're -- when Greg refers to a sort of a different commercial model we've got about a Bcf of in-let gas that we're purchasing and that's where our hedge is and our fix forward purchases of natural gas were concentrated.
That's where we do have extraction premiums.
And so our attempt there is to lock in that cash margin then we buy raw mix in the field and we're able to fractionate at it our plant because we've got capacity that some others don't have.
And that we do on a current basis.
And so we know that the profitability of that is and then we make spot purchases that tend to go in and out in a month although some does go into inventory and as our inventory rebuilds we will be doing some NGL hedging there.
But -- so that's kind of the 3 pieces of the business.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just 1 last one for me.
As far as the impact of the Express pipeline being fully contracted after your successful open season.
Is there anything from that open season or anything that we're seeing contractually that is flowing through into the Q4 results or will we have to wait till 2014 to see some impacts from that? Yes it's really a '14 and '15 those contracts ramp-up Brad.
And again we'll align -- you'll be able to see that very clearly tomorrow.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question is from the line of Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
Just want to wrap back to Empress for a second just to clarify some of the numbers that were said.
And Pat I apologize.
You said $52 million I didn't catch it that was from Empress I didn't catch that was in the fourth quarter or that was for the full year 2013? Carl our EBITDA for the year from Empress was $80 million and in the fourth quarter it was $52 million.
Okay.
And then Greg did I understand that when you're saying that as you guys were looking forward to understand you'll go into more depth in this tomorrow.
But generically if we think of a 100% margin from Empress 55% of that kind of gets a field if you will by the new commercial structure and then 45% lends itself to hedges.
Is that a correct mix? Yes that's away from a bottom line perspective.
Obviously yes that's the way to think about it.
Obviously even on the commodity I mean there's all commodity but the part that you can't do contractually that easy we wouldn't hedge all of that that's why am thinking -- think 45% 55%.
I think that's probably a fair way to look at it.
Just to clarify Carl the 45% is what would be hedged the rest would be field purchases and spot.
Okay.
And then just a quick question with respect to DCP in the fourth quarter.
Is there any way to quantify what the Permian freeze offs were either by volume impact or EBITDA impact? Let's see.
It was I believe in about the $10 million range Carl I can check that for you.
Okay.
And then maybe last question and understanding this is a little bit more macro and Greg you may speak to this tomorrow.
But as you think about the migration from the EPS to EBITDA on distributable cash flow obviously natural migration with everything you guys have been doing.
Wind management if we think back to prior years the quote guidance wasn't always just a guidance it was a budget and it was a number that would hit that would also influenced executive compensation et cetera.
Has that shifted as well from EPS to an EBITDA distributable cash flow or is this more which you might call communication changes? No I'd say a bit of both.
I mean we'll still have some element of EPS 20% 25% because ultimately that does flow through that.
That's the only commodity exposure if you will directly on earnings that we have because everything else is EBITDA and return on capital employed from a financial target perspective which is commodity neutral.
So I think having that balance there obviously makes sense.
And ultimately as you know the bulk of executive compensation is stock.
And that's going to be driven by -- I think we would agree from a dividend perspective or distribution perspective which is obviously Bcf related.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Shere with Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</strong> Two quick questions.
One quick follow-up on Brad and Carl's Empress questions.
Maybe I don't recall correctly what the long-term legacy guidance was but I thought it was maybe in the $50 million range with volatility and now if I understand that you're talking $40 million to $70 million with a lot of less volatility.
Am I understanding that you're effectively perhaps raising the bar while lowering risk? Not exactly.
Craig we talked about $30 million of EBITDA as I'm kind of looking forward to 2014.
And as we refine that with our commercial model which allows us to buy more raw mix we're upping that EBITDA from $30 million to $40 million to $70 million.
And I realize that's kind of a wide range but just given the opportunities we're seeing right now because we've got frac capacity at our power plant to buy raw mix in the field.
We believe for this year '14 and maybe '15 the $40 million to $70 million is the right range.
So plus take the midpoint of that call it $55 million.
I think that's up from the $30 million of EBITDA that we said was kind of our breakeven run rate.
Inc.</strong> I got you.
Do you feel this '14 and '15 is somewhat indicative of very long-term sustainable or we're just getting some nice tailwinds whereas before we had headwinds and we'll average a little lower long-term.
We'll talk to that a little bit tomorrow but I -- look I mean you're not going to remove all the commodity volatility.
I think as we -- if you go back to 2012 Craig you'll remember with that huge swing from very positive to very negative.
That's what we're trying to take out.
So that we don't actually have as many -- much discussion about Empress as a very small proportion of EBITDA and cash.
But -- and so hence that why I think we're feeling pretty comfortable about the range.
And again let's avoid the negative type impacts and the extraordinary upsides while still leaving some variability in the business.
Inc.</strong> Understood.
And the second question and I don't know if it's appropriate for this call or tomorrow.
But in a number of calls recently there's been questions around the potential incremental favorable shareholder-friendly restructuring efforts particularly around the DCP interest.
And you didn't quite get as good of uplift as you may in the beginning of '14.
But there's some Permian shut-in headwinds but it's certainly looking a lot better a lot better.
And I wonder if the commodity tailwinds are in any way affecting your decision-making about when something might be appropriate there? Well I will speak to that tomorrow.
But I guess my long-term perspective would become -- we always -- from a planning perspective we always assume commodity neutral and I think we've had a long history of doing that.
So it's not to play an upside or downside on commodity and that doesn't really go into the from a very long-term perspective if we didn't think NGLs were important and that might have an issue just the same way that if we didn't think natural gas was going to be viable.
But in the near-term or transactional perspective we would stay neutral which doesn't say positive or negative about any the way we look at the transactions.
They have to be from a complete material valuation uplift perspective on anything from M&amp;A to restructuring et cetera.
And I think you'll see that with the SEP transaction.
The final question is from the line of Curt Launer with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> One question cleaning up the fourth quarter relative to maintenance capital expenditures at SEP.
This is the first time you disclosed the maintenance CapEx well without both segments being part of the C-Corp parent.
So the $92 million was for the fourth quarter.
Many companies talk about seasonality and maintenance CapEx being more in the second and third quarters rather than the fourth.
Seems like your maintenance increased as you approach the year end then I just wanted to ask whatever color you could provide about that at this point so we could begin to think about '14? Curt good question.
We sometimes see seasonality as we try to get work completed by year-end.
Actually what happened in the fourth quarter at SEP was -- we had some invoices come in related to some work we did at a place we call our Oakmont compressor station and we had thought that would be 2014 CapEx and that came in the fourth quarter of '13.
So tomorrow we're going to give you some more insight into the run rate on growth and maintenance CapEx for SEP and our 3-year plan on more of a normalized basis.
We will occasionally see changes between quarters or in this case a flip between the coming year and this year end but we'll show you what our run rate is tomorrow.
And I think what you can see though from both the '12 and '13 numbers there Curt is that fourth quarter for us is not indicative of a run rate on an annual basis.
There are no further questions.
Thank you Natalia and thanks everyone for joining us today.
And we do hope that we see or hear from you tomorrow when we roll out our 2014 business outlook and our financial plan during our analyst and investor meeting in New York.
For information on participating on that via phone or the Internet please visit the Investor Section of either spectraenergy.com or spectraenergypartners.com.
And as always if you have additional questions before then feel free to give Roni Cappadonna Derick Smith or myself a call.
We are traveling to New York today so we may not be able to get back to you immediately but we'll get back with you just as quick as we can.
So anyway hope to see you tomorrow and have a good day.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Bonita and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners earnings call.
All lines have been placed on mute prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question and answer session.
If you would like to ask a question during this time simply press star then the number one on your telephone keypad.
If you would like to withdraw your question press the pound key.
Thank you.
Ms.
Dill you may begin your conference.
Thank you Bonita and good morning everyone.
Im Julie Dill Chief Communications Officer for Spectra Energy.
Thank you for joining us today for our review of Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners 2014 first quarter results.
With me today are Greg Ebel CEO of both Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners and Pat Reddy Chief Financial Officer of both companies as well.
Pat will begin by sharing our financial highlights for the quarter.
Additional information on these results is detailed in both the Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners earnings releases as well as the appendix to todays presentation all of which are available on the Investor page of our website.
Next Greg will update you on our strategic plans and priorities and the progress were seeing across the enterprise to deliver long-term shareholder value and as always well leave ample time for your questions following Gregs remarks.
Before we begin let me take a moment to remind you that some of what well discuss today concerning future company performance will be forward-looking information within the meaning of the securities laws.
Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements and you should refer to the additional information contained in Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners Form 10-K and other filings made with the SEC concerning factors that could cause those results to differ from those contemplated in todays discussion.
As this is a joint presentation the terms we our and us refer to Spectra Energy and/or Spectra Energy Partners as appropriate; and in addition todays discussion will include certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC Regulation G.
A reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available on our website.
With that let me now turn things over to Pat.
Thanks Julie and good morning all.
As youve seen from our earnings release we delivered exceptional first quarter EBITDA results of more than a billion dollars at Spectra Energy and $413 million at Spectra Energy Partners.
Those results are both more than 20% higher than the same quarter last year and were extremely pleased with the strong beginning to the year.
At Spectra Energy distributable cash flow was up more than 25% and considerably more than our original expectation for the quarter.
Distributable cash flow was also up significantly at SEP as a result of the 2013 drop down.
Both entities generated strong coverage ratios in the quarter 2.8 times at Spectra Energy and 1.6 times at Spectra Energy Partners.
Given the seasonal nature of earnings and maintenance CAPEX spend these DCF numbers and coverage ratios are higher than we would expect on an annual basis.
Given our strong start to the year on a full-year basis we now expect Spectra Energys coverage to be around 1.5 times and SEPs to be around 1.2 times.
Both investment-grade balance sheets remain strong and continue to provide the strength and flexibility to efficiently support our ambitious expansion plans and as you know we initiated a $400 million at-the-market continuous equity offering or ATM program at SEP at the end of last year.
To date SEP has raised approximately $120 million in that program.
We know its early in the year but the signs were seeing and the value were creating are positive indicators of a great year ahead.
Lets turn now to our EBITDA results by segment.
As you can see on the slide each reporting segment is up year-over-year so let me focus on the dynamics that drove us to this strong start.
Spectra Energy Partners is comprised of our U.S.
transmission and liquids businesses.
At U.S.
Transmission quarterly EBITDA results reflect increased earnings from the expansion projects we placed into service last year.
The business also benefited from higher revenues from greater short-term firm and interruptible demand on our Texas Eastern system thanks in part to the unusually cold and prolonged winter.
Our liquids business realized EBITDA of nearly $60 million from the acquisitions of Express-Platte and our one-third interest in the Sand Hills and Southern Hills NGL pipelines.
We expect to continue that strong earnings trend throughout the year and are on track to more than double the EBITDA from the liquids business by 2016.
Spectra Energy received GP and LP distributions from SEP of $168 million in the first quarter.
Turning next to distributions that segments EBITDA increase was due mainly to higher customer usage as a result of record cold winter weather which also drove higher operating fuel costs and earnings sharing under the incentive rate framework.
The business managed its regulatory environment extraordinarily well and received a couple of regulatory rulings from the Ontario Energy Board that in the aggregate provided a benefit of about $10 million to Union Gas.
Western Canadas EBITDA increase was due primarily to higher earnings at Empress and off-plan results across the west of the western Canada segment.
We earned $60 million of EBITDA at Empress in large part due to higher propane prices.
In February we told you were working to stabilize the earnings and cash flow contribution from Empress and that we expected to deliver about $50 million of additional EBITDA beyond our original forecast which would put us at about $80 million for the year.
With these strong results in the first quarter we remain positive about our ability to deliver that higher number.
This is impressive given that our annual expectation takes into account our planned second quarter plant turnaround at Empress which started at the end of April and will continue for about 45 days.
All said a strong start to the year at Empress.
While the Canadian dollar brought with it a bit of a headwind that affected the EBITDA at our western Canadian and distribution segments the effect was considerably mitigated on a net income basis as the result of lower depreciation interest expense and taxes.
Field services benefited from significantly higher commodity prices improved NGL marketing and logistics margins and higher margins and volume growth attributable to new projects placed in service.
Thanks to field services strong and steady performance to date in 2014 we have received $136 million in distributions in BCC midstream well ahead of our anticipated levels.
So all in all Im pleased with how we started the year and barring any significant unplanned events we fully expect to retain the benefits realized to date and continue to deliver on the commitments we made for the balance of the year.
With that let me turn things over to Greg to talk about our plans priorities and the progress were making.
Thanks very much.
Thanks to everybody for joining us today.
As Pat described first quarter results were driven by new assets we put in the ground last year just in time for the increased demand caused by a cold and pretty long winter.
Im very pleased with how well our people and our system responded to meet the demands of the season.
I think the financial performance easily speaks for itself so let me provide you with some other factors dealing with our strong current and future performance.
This past winter we delivered the highest total quantity of natural gas ever on our Algonquin Texas Eastern and East Tennessee systems.
Our ability to deliver new infrastructure and expansion projects into service went a long way in ensuring that demand was met in a timely reliable and cost-effective manner.
Not only did it add significantly to our EBITDA the completion of our New Jersey-New York pipeline improved the diversity reliability and cost effectiveness of natural gas supply to important northeast markets and you can see from this chart the pipeline was fully utilized from Day 1.
The bottom line of all that  our ability to reliably meet customer demand at critical times and high utilization rates of our pipelines and storage facilities demonstrated the value of our assets underscored the need for continued growth of the footprint and bode well for continued contract renewals.
And of course both of those helped Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partner investors benefit from our ability to execute on this growth.
Another noteworthy dynamic benefiting our investors are the opportunities enabled by having pipeline assets that can operate bi-directionally.
As you all know North Americas natural gas supply and demand picture is undergoing dramatic shifts and while the growing shale supply is a significant driver for the current environment of changing pipeline flows equally important is the demand growth were seeing along the Gulf Coast the southeast and the midwest U.S.
Historically natural gas has flowed from the Gulf to the northeast markets but now with increasing quantities of natural gas entering pipelines from the Marcellus and Utica basins gas is needed both downstream and upstream and our pipelines are ideally situated to benefit from this changing market dynamic.
We have a number of projects underway today on Texas Eastern to facilitate such bi-directional flows; in fact by 2017 Texas Eastern will be able to move 2 billion cubic feet of supply per day to the Gulf Coast and midwest markets via bi-directional flows and importantly will do that while retaining full capacity to deliver to northeast markets.
By the end of this year when they go into service TEAM 2014 and TEAM South will be the first Texas Eastern projects to offer firm paths to move Marcellus supply south.
By 2015 OPEN will bring incremental supply to the south and the Uniontown to Gas City project will deliver gas to the west.
Finally our two-phase Gulf Markets expansion project is due to be complete in the second half of 2016 and the first half of 17 providing a pathway to take gas to southern markets.
The diagram on this slide provides a simplified view of how bi-directional flows work.
With pipe beam and valve modifications to our existing infrastructure our compressor stations can now push gas to the south making the system bi-directional.
I invite you to visit the investor page of our website where we have posted a helpful fact sheet on this topic.
This changing landscape provides Spectra Energy the opportunity to offer existing and new customers the flexibility and optionality that theyre seeking and as a result of this growth our investors are also rewarded with enhanced value creation.
We have a very healthy backlog of projects and opportunities that ensure us continued growth and long-term value creation.
We remain confident in our ability to deliver on our pledge to you to place $35 billion of expansion projects into service between 2013 and 2020.
Ill update you on a few of these projects in which additional progress has been made and milestones met in the first quarter.
Were making solid progress on the Sabal Trail pipeline into Florida which will serve the growing needs of Florida Power &amp; Light and other local utilities for access to natural gas to fuel new power generation.
Were pleased to announce that we have executed a precedent agreement with Duke Energy for Sabal Trail to serve Dukes proposed generation facility in Citrus County Florida.
Weve got a great team on the ground already and on track to submit our FERC filing in October and deliver the pipeline into service in 2017 as planned.
The Algonquin Incremental Market project or AIM is a billion-dollar effort to increase the west-to-east capacity of Algonquin pipeline by about 350 million cubic feet per day.
The project is 100% subscribed by virtually all the local and major distribution companies in New England.
We submitted our FERC filing for AIM in February and we expect to receive our FERC certificate in the first quarter of 2015 all as planned.
Were advancing nicely on our NEXUS project which will bring supply diversity to Michigan and eastern Canada by delivering Utica and Marcellus gas.
The project will serve eastern Canadian and midwest LDCs and Appalachian producers.
Were pleased to report that three key local distribution companies have now signed precedent agreements to utilize a portion of the projects currently anticipated capacity.
I expect producer contracts to follow during the next couple of quarters as they continue to recognize the risk of being stuck with gas in the ground and no pipe to get it to gas-hungry markets.
At the beginning of the year we announced the Atlantic Bridge project to further expand Algonquin.
Since then weve conducted a very successful open season receiving strong interest from 33 parties to support many times over the targeted 200 to 300 million cubic feet project and its 2017 in-service date.
This level of interest sets the stage for further expansion opportunities in the region beyond this time frame.
Beyond our projects in various stages of execution and advanced development we have a host of longer term opportunities that were also pursuing.
Were seeing opportunities in the Gulf Coast area related to both LNG exports and growing industrial demand.
We also see the need for more pipeline infrastructure to serve electric generators and other customers in the mid-Atlantic and the southeast U.S.
and of course DCP midstream has almost $2 billion of expansions underway today with another $2 billion in the development phase.
When we rolled our 2014 business plan we shared with you our growth priorities for the year.
We are working on all of these but let me update you on some of the progress that were making starting with SEPs U.S.
Transmission.
We committed to securing $3 billion of expansion projects this year at or better than 10% of returns.
Were well on our way thanks to the strong results I described with our Atlantic Bridge open season and the progress weve made on signing contracts for NEXUS.
We told you wed safety and successfully advanced the projects we have in execution and we are.
We received FERC certificates for the Kingsport and TEAM 2014 project commenced construction and are well on track to achieve the targeted budget and in-service dates.
Our TEAM South project will begin construction this summer and come into service before year-end.
This has been a record year already in terms of FERC filings for us.
We submitted our FERC filings for the AIM OPEN and Uniontown to Gas City projects.
Were on track to submit our FERC filing for the Salem Lateral this summer and as mentioned were making steady progress on the Sabal Trail project advancing toward a FERC filing in October.
We told you wed secure and ensure re-contracting of our base revenue through 2016 and this past winters system usage certainly confirmed our customers need to hold firm capacity which bodes well for continued re-contracting as well as incremental investment.
With respect to SEPs liquids business we told you wed ramp up existing contracts on Sand Hills and Southern Hills and we are on track to meet the 2014 volume ramp-up to a combined 230 000 barrels per day.
We committed to ramp up Express-Platte contracted volumes and EBITDA and we are.
As Pat mentioned the liquids segment will see a doubling of its EBITDA contribution by 2016.
Were also pursuing longer term opportunities to expand our crude oil business by the end of the decade.
The Inland California Express project which were developing in partnership with Questar Corporation includes a new rail terminal on southern California together with a reactivation of an existing pipeline into the Los Angeles-Long Beach refining complex.
Well know more about the success of this project later in the year.
With our partner ATCO Energy Solutions we intend to build the Synergy pipeline to further link growing oil sands production to the Edmonton-Hardisty hub.
Preliminary engineering is complete and we are in discussion with multiple potential shippers for this.
A big project on the drawing board entails the twinning of our entire Express-Platte system from Alberta to Illinois to bring growing oil sand supply to the midwest and beyond.
Similar to the Synergy project we have completed preliminary engineering and the project looks compelling and we are currently in discussion with several large refiners for that project.
These are mostly end of the decade projects but fortunately with our strong backlog of secured projects in execution and already confirmed to contribute to EBITDA growth over the 2016 to 2016 time frame were able to also focus on longer term business development efforts.
At Union Gas were focused on building upon the strength and stability of our asset base and as discussed our assets performed exceptionally well during Ontarios coldest winter in 35 years.
We told you we executed on our 2015 Dawn-Parkway expansion and with this will allow Canadian LDCs to diversity their supply portfolio to enhance access to Unions Dawn hub.
This expanded access to Dawn will support the NEXUS project the new Marcellus (indiscernible) that supplies the Dawn.
As we communicated in January we received approval from the Ontario Energy Board for this expansion and were on track to place it into service in the fourth quarter of 2015.
We continue to be very confident about the additional Dawn-Parkway expansions in both 2016 and 17.
We received strong response to our 2016 open season and anticipate filing a facilities application with the OEB this summer for additional facilities.
Well be able to adjust rates to realize immediate earnings from these investment thanks to the capital cost pass-through mechanism component of our five-year incentive rate deal.
Given the dynamics of natural gas flows in Canada and the U.S.
we are seeing unusually high capital deployment opportunity around large pipeline expansion infrastructure at Union Gas.
Were likewise on track to deliver on the commitments we made related to our western Canadian business.
We committed to substantially de-risk our Empress commodity exposure weve enhanced the risk management program in the first quarter of this year to minimize the volatility of cash flows at Empress and allow us to deliver base level ongoing EBITDA from the business in line with our forecast expectations.
We told you wed place the North Montney project into service in the second quarter of 2014 and were on track to do that later this month.
We also told you that wed advance regulatory approvals and obtain environmental permits for our west coast connector project.
We filed our environmental application in March and expect to receive our environmental assessment certificate by year-end making us the first project into Prince Rupert to receive such environmental approvals.
Of course the potential for LNG development on the BC coast is greater than any single project.
We intend to benefit from the additional LNG projects being developed in BC and expect to participate in gathering and processing as well as the pipeline expansion needed by the producers and various LNG developers.
Turning to field services weve committed to placing three projects into service this year and weve already done that: the Goliad Plant in the Eagle Ford and the Front Range pipeline were delivered into service in February and the OConnor plant expansion in March.
We indicated to you that DCP would drop down at least a billion dollars of assets to DPM and we accomplished more than that in the first quarter with a March drop down of one-third interest in Sand Hills and Southern Hills the remaining 20% of the Eagle Ford system and the Lucerne 1 plant.
The DCP have come up fast in 2014 with this first drop down and more is expected by the year-end.
Weve been focused on securing permits and beginning construction of two new gathering and processing plants  Lucerne 2 located in the growing Niobrara shale is slated to go into service in mid-2015 and Zia II a sour gas plant that will serve producers in southeast New Mexico and West Texas regions of the Permian.
In the first half of next year that will be ready to go.
We told you were ramp up existing contracts from Sand Hills and Southern Hills and as mentioned previously were on track there.
So weve had a busy start to the year and an exceptionally strong first quarter.
Spectra Energy realized EBITDA in excess of a billion dollar distributable cash flow levels at Spectra Energy and SEP are robust we have strong distribution coverage ratios exceeding our first quarter expectations and our investment-grade balance sheets are solid.
Clearly we are executing not only by running our systems safely and reliably so we meet all of our customer commitments but by delivering new infrastructure into service securing new business pursuing opportunities to continue to expand and enhance our footprint all the while delivering solid dividend and distribution growth to our investors.
Strong fee-based cash flows continue to underpin that growth.
As weve said before as we do better we will look to share that upside with our investors.
Were really pleased with our first quarter performance as we continue to build on the momentum that carried us into this year Weve got an impressive list of growth opportunities at attractive returns that were executing on and work to complete through the end of the decade - $35 billion worth of expansion projects that cover every single one of our business units.
So with that let me turn things back to Julie so we can take your questions.
Thank you Greg.
Wed like to hear from you now so well open up the lines for your questions.
Bonita would you please provide the instructions on how folks can ask questions?  Hey a couple questions and I appreciate the color on the Texas Eastern system but with regard to the projects that you outlined to move gas south and the potential for capacity expansions beyond what youve announced if Im thinking about TEAM South in February you talked about bids during the open season being four times that 300 million cubic feet of capacity and just looking at where differentials are now and seemingly more supply building behind infrastructure how do you think about expanding TEAM South and possibly even that Uniontown to Gas City further? Yeah were a little bit limited on what we can do with the current infrastructure so as I said this is the same case weve got further in the northeast and with over-capacity requests if you will in the northeast.
Were looking at can you do even a bigger expansion all the way down to the Gulf and the challenge with that of course is being able to do it on an economic basis and as you point out some of the basis challenges that exist there.
But yeah look  were putting two projects into service this year to move gas south.
Were putting two more in next year so I hear a lot of discussion about people looking at projects but I think were 18 months ahead of others and that really gives us another opportunity to look at even larger expansions.
But thats going to be more capital and bigger capacities as opposed to just reconfiguring compressor stations and pipe yards if you will.
If you had to kind of rank order the opportunities to invest discretionary dollars into the ability to move gas south whether or not its on TEAM South or OPEN or the Uniontown tothat expansion in terms of unlevered rates of returns where do you think youd get the most accretive bang for the buck? Well you know interesting enough given the demand I actually think all of them.
I mean were targeting those 10%-type returns and I think all of them can achieve that.
Again the challenge is not so much what we think they can achieve; its what producers are willing to pay in that regard.
But I would say the opportunities l like the most mainly because it produces the most amount of capital and obviously going to a huge market is getting down to the Gulf Coast.
All that being said I think the important part is we are right at the nexus  no pun intended  of the Utica and Marcellus so while folks are talking about moving gas west and then youve got some others talking about moving east we can move gas to the northeast were going to move it west  were already doing that.
Were going to move it north and were going to move it south so I actually dontat this point in time given the opportunities we see before us given the capital structure we have I dont feel restricted by pursuing any of the opportunities that we have out there and I think we can do that earning those 10%-type returns.
Okay and then last question for me if I can switch to field services just curious with whats gone on with composite NGL barrel pricing if thats changed the way that youve thought about your guidance.
I know that you were building in at the DCP level a weighted barrel price of about $0.94 a gallon and you had about 25 000 barrels a day of ethane built into the guidance being rejected.
Obviously the demand pull from C3-plus has been a lot different over the past couple months and where the relationship between composite barrel pricing is versus crude youve got a bit better producer net-back.
So Im wondering if anything has changed in terms of where youre expecting realized pricing or possibly ethane rejection and how that alters what Sand Hills and Southern Hills could do in terms of cash flow into the back end of the year.
You know obviously its going to be helpful to ramp up the volumes but we have pretty good ramps that we expect and were seeing that.
I would say what weve seen in results today and it excludes some of the weather impacts on propane have been very consistent  you know the $0.93 $0.94 kind of the 38 39% relationship with WTI and I think were going to see that for some period of time.
You know youve got a bunch of dynamics going on.
The more I hear about propane exports and ethane exports the happier I get about setting a floor on NGLs and obviously as by far the largest producer of NGLs in North America that makes me happy every day.
The only thing I wish is that we had some export capability but we dont have that directly today.
Okay I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Hey good morning Greg.
First question is a little bit more macro focused.
Weve seen a tremendous pace of pipeline reversals out of the northeast.
Do you think that were approaching a point now where were getting close to saturated on capacity additions specifically out of the southwest Marcellus and Utica shales especially for capacity headed to the south and to the west? You know I think maybe the way I would articulate it Brad is that these things come in waves two or three-year waves.
Im glad that weve got the projects we have because I think the next big round is for stuff in 17 and 18.
I think you also are lookingdont forget that a need hasnt been met yet in the mid-Atlantic region and I think that opportunity is out there and obviously that could be a pretty big opportunity which were going to pursue pretty forcefully with the various folks that are looking for that.
So I think you might be right  if you havent got stuff now its going to be hard to realize the benefits of that in 15 and 16.
The next round of plays are for 17 18 and 19 and thats what were focused on.
And in terms of 17 18 and 19 projects youre referring to those mid-Atlantic projects or you believe that there is more work to be done in plumbing the northeast? Both.
As I indicated given the demand that we saw for things like Atlantic Bridge given the demand weve seen for AIM I think theres another round of projects that have to occur at least brownfield-type projects probably but maybe even some big greenfield projects into the northeast; and of course you know that 17 18 time frame is exactly where NEXUS will come in.
So I think to the west is a little bit tougher but thats not a big focus for us.
Remember we built TEAM X TEAM 2012 and our OPEN New Jersey-New York to take gas from the back end to REX and now given where our assets are were the front end of REX.
Lebanon and Clarington are not big producing areas  theyre not producing areas.
You want to be coming through Spectras Texas Eastern and stuff to feed that west but I dont see a huge need for a ton more pipe into Chicago.
Great thanks for the color.
This question is related more to the Canadian market and the role it has to play absorbing some of this northeast supply.
You know youre looking now with the REX reversal at close to four Bs a day moving into the midwest over the next few years and probably closer to 10 Bs a day moving down to the Gulf Coast yet weve only seen really about a B of committed export projects to Canada and NEXUS which seems like its on the doorstep of being fully contracted but still has taken a while to get signed up especially in light of the fact that the economics shipping gas to Canada seem like a no-brainer is there another kind of economic factor at play here? Is there something related to TransCanadas import tariffs out of the northeast thats making what would be a very economic proposition maybe a little bit less economic? No I dont think so Brad.
I think as usual things can take some time from a regulatory perspective A.
B remember the way (indiscernible) always gets done is at first producers say weve got spectacular results in whatever region that were in and that filters through the market and then the pipeliners come along and say well if youve got spectacular results surely you dont want to be stuck in the ground.
But until theyre 100% confident theyve got what they think theyve got in the ground theyre not going to sign up for long-term commitments.
And then you get on the demand side of things  okay we see that the Utica and the Marcellus are humming along great.
We can see that weve got some challenges in western Canada so we in the Michigan-Ontario area are now ready to take supply and you need all three of those things to line up to be able to get a project in particular a greenfield project of this size to shake out.
Exact same thing with New Jersey-New York even with Sabal Trail.
Remember  the Sabal Trail project was probably three years in the works between getting exactly what you needed on the demand side comfort on the supply side and then actually going through the process.
So I just think were in the world of what used to be 18 to 24 months from development to construction to in-service to now 24 to 36 months.
Thats just the reality of the world with some of the really changing dynamics on the supply side and the demand side as well as the overlying lets face a tougher sighting environment that were in.
Great and just one last question related more to the modeling side of things.
As we think about DCP historically DCP had pretty significant deliveries into Conway and now with Sand Hills Southern Hills Front Range Texas Express there are obviously a lot of ways for DCP to kind of move its NGL barrels to the Gulf Coast.
But in a period like the first quarter where there were extended periods of time where keeping those NGLs in the midwest does DCP still have the option to keep those barrels in the midwest if the price dictates that thats the right thing to do? It just seemed like the realized price that DCP reported while much stronger than guidance was still maybe not as high as the spike in prices that we saw in the Conwaythat Conway spot price would have indicated.
Yeah I think thats a fair comment.
We have very little capability to keep the stuff at Conway.
Its got to get to Belvieu and as you know BradI mean this is a long-term game.
There is no doubt about it  the best market to take NGLs perhaps in the world but definitely North America is into Mont Belvieu and thats what were playing.
But in the near term yeah when you have some impact like you saw this winter and Conway spiked up we can play a little bit of that on our market being a logistics site.
Now Spectra of course does really well when Conway spikes because thats obviously a close connection to Empress and to the extent we may not have hedgedand obviously as we just worked into a hedging program in the first quarter that really helped Empress from that perspective as well.
But at DCP you would be correct  the bulk of our focus now will be Mont Belvieu and thats where we want to be.
Great and I guess just any parting thoughts on the potential to increase payout just given the fact that full-year coverage is already setting up to be very strong? Well you know its the first quarter but you know what I love? I love the firepower we have to have a discussion towards the end of the year and obviously with a really nice running leaping start to the start of the year and the budget looking the way it is and our forecast for the rest of the year I dont see why we should see any change from that things within our control.
Im looking forward to the discussion later in the year about what we do for next year.
Weve said before  if the type of results weve seen in the first quarter keep playing through and we see better coverages we definitely want to look at sharing those with investors.
So I think thats a discussion we typically have towards the end of the year as we put our three-year plans together.
Great.
Thanks for all the color.
Okay thanks Brad.
Morning.
Congratulations on the good quarter.
Greg let me pick on the NGL commodity question that Darren started off with.
I think you highlighted exports of if I heard correctly both propane and ethane contributing to floors for NGLs so my question is do you see ethane seaborne exports such as Enterprises terminal plan for third quarter 16 as a reality and do you see stair steps and pet chem.
demand including I think this summer weve got Williams Geismar online and Lyondells La Porte expansion coming online and then a couple more expansions next year for Lyondell as well as others.
Do you see those pet chem expansions just keeping pace with the growing NGL production or how do you see things in the next 18 months? Well I dont see a big change in the next 18 months.
I think most people have looked to 17 18 19 before the big demand kicks in and my commentsso there will be Geismar and some other things that will come back online and they were pretty big outages.
But in terms of big incremental demand and given the growth in NGL this is really looking in that 17 18 time period.
My comments about ethane  you know the Enterprise guys always do a good job and if they can get on the water I just think just like propane that sets a floor because they're going to get more global prices for those products if you will ethane and propane and thats just a positive from North America NGL pricing particularly as we leg into the demand growth closer to the end of the decade than the beginning of the decade.
Yeah there has been a lot of discussion in the last year since you guys have beenyou know with the acquisition of Express-Platte and the drop downs really kind of turbocharging some of your game plan here and people are like well whats next and what can we do with DCP? I guess my question is apart from financial engineering the problem at DCP LLC has been its very low cost basis and also that part of the business versus the MLP is very commodity sensitive.
If we can in a couple years start as you say set a floor for ethane which I know DCP is very exposed to couldnt we see a material uplift in the multiple valuation that could be ascribed to that business and maybe thats a better time frame to start thinking about what to do with it? Well first of all I dont know why we have to wait a couple years for that.
My view is that the writing is on the wall and as you see things like Southern Hills Sand Hills Texas Express all adding a fee-based nature to DCPs earnings then in fact we should start realizing some of that uplift.
I think its begun to start but in my view not enough.
I think one interesting thing to think about Craig as you know weve always paid our dividend out of our fee-based earnings out of the non-DCP piece.
As things get moreas you say a floor gets set and maybe some more fee-based earnings from things like the pipeline I think then the opportunity is well do we start to pay out some of those DCP earnings that arent volatile to Spectra investors.
So thats the kind of thing Im thinking through.
Thats a good point.
My last question just to clarify  this $35 billion by the end of the decade thats a gross figure right? Thats not proportional for say DCP or Sabal Trail or things like that? Yeah thats got 100% of DCP in it.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Good morning everybody.
Greg just following on some of the other questions here regardingyou know you were talking about the additional volumes in 2017 to 19 time frame I guess for north to south.
Youre thinking I guess kind of aggregate what do you think those volumes are and what do you think Spectra can capture  you know just kind of ballparking it? Well I guess if I look at what were doing right now so between 14 and 17 and starting in 14 and 15 were talking about 2Bcf so I dont see why we wouldnt be able to replicate a similar type of situation.
In fact it may be a much bigger volume only because the next set of growth projects will probably take more capital more greenfield or brownfield-type capital as opposed to utilizing systems and maybe various parts that may not be fully utilized today.
So I think the restraint will solely be on can we have a meeting of the minds if you will between producers and consumers to actually get those 10%-type returns.
But yeah I dont see why another 2Bcf at least couldnt come on between 17 and 19 and thats excluding what we do on NEXUS.
I think NEXUS represents a really great opportunity and I think as producers look at thatyou know weve kind of talked about that as a 1Bcf a day pipeline and maybe thats going to be substantially bigger.
And obviously if thats the case the economics of that both for producers and on the demand side get better.
Okay thats helpful.
Im just curious though this bi-directional flow what kind of tariffs do you apply to that and how does that impact the tariffs that you put on that project? Well heres the way we look at it.
Look  on a net-net basis all the capital we put to work is earning about a 10% return so its a competitive world out there were negotiating on these rates and so think about it in terms of 10% types return on capital employed.
Thats the way I would get into it as opposed to getting into specific commercial returns.
All right so just have us sort of back into it would be the way to think about it.
Yes.
Okay great.
All right thank you very much.
Okay thank you.
Hi.
So just regarding the NEXUS pipeline it looks like many producers have already signed up with an existing pipe to go to the same market sooner than the 2000 time frame that I think you guys have proposed.
Do you think theres risk to this project getting pushed out or is there still not enough capacity to go to those markets without NEXUS? Just trying to gauge when do welike when do we see producers sign up with your project? Well as I mentioned Id expect wed see producers in the next couple of quarters sign up; and no I think a lot of what you seen from a capacity perspective at this point in time isnt giving people direct access to Dawn.
Thats what were proposing.
There are someI guess you could go to Chicago and up and around the bend and get a lot of rate stacking that goes on so we still dont see anybody with the type of volumes were talking about getting to Dawn or with as competitive a rate from that perspective.
Again a lot of what youre seeing is people using parts of pipes or pipes that arent utilized in relatively small volumes and a lot of that stuff is also going towards the Gulf as opposed to into Dawn.
So yes theres always risk to projects until you get them built and in the ground but as I said with three LDCs signed up the focus is on the producer and over the next couple of quarters thats the real focus Christine.
Even with the stacking up of the tariff that you just described is NEXUS still competitive because yeah its stacking but its also old pipe so I would think that the tariff is not that high versusyou guys probably have to do a little more new build right? Well yeah a big chunk of ours is new build but alsobut yeah we are very competitive.
Some of the rates Ive seen people put out on the REX thing I havewell I have no doubt were better than that from a competitive perspective.
I was actually surprised at how high those rates were.
Okay.
Then my last question is you talk about 2Bcf a day of Tetco being bi-directional by 2017.
Have we kind of maxed out with existing infrastructure being reversed? Do you have to do more new build to add more capacity capabilities to go to the Gulf? Can you help us think about how much higher you can go than the 2Bcf a day? I think the 2Bcf is about that.
Theres a little bitand of course then you start getting constrained on different parts of the pipes so Christine I think as I tried to mention earlier I think with the two coming into service this year  TEAM South TEAM 2014  and then the two pieces next year Uniontown to Gas City et cetera then I think were pretty close to utilizing or perhaps optimizing the pipe that exists and now you start getting into bigger builds.
And therefore we have to get into bigger builds to make this work so I think its 2Bcf of very economic builds for our customers and then after that were talking about bigger builds and then its going to be a fight from a competitive perspective and what type of diversity and opportunity and delivery points you have and thats why I love as usual the map that we have from a satellite perspective where we get all the lights whether its west north south or east.
One of the things that Ive kind of heard is with other pipelines who kind of have the capabilities from going Gulf to northeast if they were to get through all of their low-hanging fruit and do new builds like you just described they say that the tariff will be in the dollar range.
Do you agree with that? I think that totally depends on the size Christine.
I mean beyond the 2Bcf it might be in that amount; but again it totally depends on how big.
You know obviously if its a 1Bcf pipe its going to be a lot more expensive than 2Bcf a day pipeline so I wouldntI actually dont want to get into a discussion about how well well be competitive.
I know were going to be competitive but I would suggest it totally depends on the size of the pipe that youre talking about here.
Okay super.
Thank you so much.
Okay thanks Christine.
Thank you Bonita and I want to thank everyone that joined us on the call today.
Were looking forward to seeing many of you in a couple of weeks at both the AGA Financial Forum and the NAPTP MLP investor conference.
But in the meantime as always if you have any additional questions please feel free to give Roni Cappadonna or myself a call at your convenience.
So thanks very much all have a good day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
My name is Sally and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners second quarter earnings call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question and answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Julie Dill Chief Communications Officer for Spectra Energy.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you Sally and good morning everyone.
And thank you for joining us today for our review of Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners 2014 second quarter results.
With me today are Greg Ebel CEO of both Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners; Pat Reddy Chief Financial Officer of both companies and Bill Yardley President of our US Transmission business.
Bill has responsibility for a significant portion of the near-term expansion projects in our backlog and he is with us today to help field your questions related to US transmission.
Pat will begin by sharing our financial highlights for the quarter.
Additional information on these results is detailed in both the Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners earnings releases as well as the appendix to todays presentation all of which are available on the Investor page of our websites.
Next Greg will update you on our strategic plans and priorities and the progress were seeing across the enterprise to deliver long-term shareholder value and as always well leave ample time for your questions following Gregs remarks.
Our Safe Harbor statement is contained within our presentation materials and available on our websites.
This disclaimer is important and integral to all our remarks so I would ask that you refer to it as you review our materials.
Also contained in our presentation materials are non-GAAP measures that we reconcile to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and those reconciliations are also available on our website.
So with that let me turn things over to Pat.
Okay.
Well thanks Julie and good morning all.
As youve seen in our news release our second quarter results are very much in line with our expectations and reflects strong performance from our core businesses.
The story for the quarter is pretty straight forward.
First we had increased earnings from expansions and asset additions like the New Jersey New York pipeline.
Our Express-Platte system to Sand Hills and Southern Hills natural gas liquids pipelines and the OConner (inaudible) plants the DCP Midstream.
The USPS has contributed an incremental $34 million to Spectra Energys EBITDA this quarter compared with last years quarter with DCP adding about $5 million from their asset additions.
Second as we mentioned in our first quarter earnings call we scheduled a major turnaround at our Empress processing plant that would take the plan out of service for about 45 days beginning in May.
This scheduled work resulted in lower revenues while the plant was down and increased O&amp;M for the quarter the total effect of the turnaround at Empress was about $33 million at the EBITDA line.
In addition we had significantly greater number of plant turnarounds with DCP Midstream compared with last year which reduced our equity earnings by approximately $8 million.
And third the Canadian dollar was weaker this year down about 7% from the prior year quarter The EBITDA contributions from our distribution in Western Canadian businesses were lowered by $15 million as a result.
The effect of the currency translation as you know is virtually eliminated at the net income level.
In summary then our results for the quarter are in line with our expectations and Ill take a few minutes to walk you through the components.
For the quarter Spectra Energy generated EBITDA of $627 million $20 million lower than the previous year and Spectra Energy Partners delivered EBITDA of $353 million $5 million higher than in the same period last year.
These results build on our very strong first quarter putting us well ahead of where we initially expected to be at this point in the year and they position us to exceed the full year 2014 plan we shared with you in February.
Ill elaborate on this in a few minutes before I close.
Turning to distributable cash flow.
Spectra Energy DCF is $277 million even though EBITDA is lower quarter-over-quarter the higher distributions we received from DCP Midstream driven by a higher commodity prices and gathering and processing margins led to a 12% increase in distributable cash flow for the quarter.
Distributable cash flow at SEP is $239 million for the quarter.
You recall that with the drop down of our remaining US assets into SEP in November of last year we restated earnings but not DCF.
With our strong DCF results year-to-date we continue to expect Spectra Energys coverage to be 1.5 times and SEP is to be 1.2 times on a full year basis.
In the appendix to our presentation you will find more detail associated with our distributable cash flow calculations.
All-in-all we delivered a solid quarter with strong operational performance across all of our businesses.
So lets take a quick look at our EBITDA results by segment.
Let me start with Spectra Energy Partners which is comprised of our US transmission and liquids business.
US transmission reported EBITDA 320 million up from $311 million in the second quarter of last year.
Quarterly results reflect increased earnings from the expansions primarily on our Texas Eastern system.
Our liquids business generated EBITDA of $51 million compared with $40 million last year.
2014 results reflect a ramp up of our share of both the Sand Hills and Southern Hills NGL pipelines which were put into service in June of 2013.
Higher transportation revenues on the Express-Platte system as a result of increased tariff rates and higher contracted volumes also held.
Spectra Energy received GP distributions from SEP $41 million in the second quarter and $79 million year-to-date.
LP distributions for the quarter were $132 million with $262 million received year-to-date.
Our distribution segment reported EBITDA of $112 million for the quarter compared with $115 million in 2013.
The modest reduction is due largely to considerably weaker Canadian dollar.
The FX impact this quarter for our distribution business with $7 million.
Our Western Canada Transmission Processing segment reported EBITDA of $111 million compared with $157 million in 2013.
Now as we discuss in our first quarter call we had a plant major facility turnaround in the second quarter at Empress.
The total O&amp;M associated with this turnaround was $25 million and while the Empress plant was down we also realized lower revenues of about $8 million for a total difference between quarters of $33 million.
In addition the FX effect of the lower Canadian dollar produced an $8 million for a total difference between quarters of $33 million.
In addition the FX effect at the lower Canadian dollar produced an $8 million decrease for the quarter.
The Empress plant is back in service and we continue to expect it to deliver EBITDA of $80 million for the year.
Our field services segment reported EBITDA of $54 million compared with $46 million in 2013.
The increase was primarily driven by higher volumes as a result of three new processing plants being placed into service and stronger commodity prices.
The increases were partially offset by an $8 million increase in operating and maintenance costs resulting from the planned turnarounds mentioned earlier.
Additionally while the increased volumes and added revenues the new assets placed into service also contributed to higher O&amp;M.
This segment also recognized an increase in interest expense for the quarter primarily due to lower capitalized interest.
During the second quarters of 2014 and 2013 respectively DCPs realized NGL prices averaged $0.93 per gallon versus $0.82.
NYMEX natural gas averaged $4.67 per MMBtu versus $4.09 and crude oil averaged approximately $103 per barrel versus $94.
DCP Midstream paid distributions of $78 million to Spectra Energy in the second quarter of 2014 with distributions through July of $179 million.
So all-in-all were pleased with where we stand at mid-year.
Going back to our February plant roll out you will recall that we targeted EPS for the year of a $1.40 and following historical patterns about half that amount would be earned in the second half of the year.
Weve exceeded our initial expectations on a year to-date basis and we fully expect to achieve the back half of our financial forecast during the balance of the year.
So borrowing any significant unplanned developments we should exceed the targets laid out for you in February.
So with that let me turn things over to Greg to talk about our growth projects our priorities and the progress were making.
Thanks very much Pat and again thanks for everybody on the line on the webcast today.
As Pat described Spectra Energys second quarter results reflect the earnings and DCF FX of assets delivered in the services required last year.
Our expansion projects executed on time and on budget by our talented team are really fuelling growth and value for investors.
You can see our momentum and the results reported this quarter you see it in our year-to-date performance and you continue to see it as we execute on multiple growth opportunities.
As always were looking ahead to continue to grow through a robust backlog of projects that provide investors with long-term attractive returns.
We are dedicated to delivering on our commitment of investing in $35 billion of expansion projects between 2013 and 2020.
And we are making great progress on our drive to $35 billion goal.
Just this past quarter we moved six new projects underpinned by customer commitments totaling about $2 billion into execution.
Those projects are NEXUS Atlantic Bridge Dawn Parkway 2016 two new expansions of the Sand Hills NGL line Red Lake and Spraberry and our partial Ozark conversion with Magellan.
Were operating in a unique opportunity rich environment in an extremely dynamic marketplace.
So let me start by reviewing these projects and others we have in execution.
NEXUS which will bring supply diversity to Eastern Canada by delivering Utica and Marcellus gas by the end of 2017.
Now as designed customer support necessary to move forward and we are doing just that.
It will be anchored by commitments from Eastern Canadian and Midwest U.S local distribution companies as well as Appalachian producers.
NEXUS provides Spectra Energy with an investment opportunity in the $700 million to $1 billion range.
The Atlantic Bridge project will further expand our Algonquin and Maritimes &amp; Northeast pipeline systems.
Connect the abundant natural gas supplies with markets in the New England states and Maritime Provinces.
We have committed anchored shippers on board and the projects is slated to go into service in 2017.
We are pursuing additional shippers and when all is settled we will have an investment of at least $500 million with the possibility of up to $1 billion and were executing on our 2016 Dawn Parkway Expansion scheduled to go into service in late 2016.
Here again we have now secured customer commitments and intend to file the facilities application with the Ontario Energy Board later this month.
CapEx associated with this project is approximately $400 million.
In the Permian the Red Lake and Spraberry expansions of the Sand Hills NGL pipeline expand our reach in the fast growing production areas and position Sand Hills for continued future growth.
Spectra Energy Partners share with these expansion will total approximately $70 million and will be fully in service by mid-2015.
We announced our first quarter call that we had entered into a long-term lease agreement with Magellan to convert a portion of our Ozark pipeline to a refined products pipeline by mid-2016.
Were on target to submit our FERC filing for this project in the third quarter of this year.
Were also making great progress on the Sabal Trail pipeline into Florida which is you will recall will serve the growing needs of Florida Power and Light and Duke Energy for access the natural gas to fuel new power generation.
Were on track to submit our FERC application in October and to meet our in-service date of 2017.
Were executing on the 2015 Dawn Parkway Expansion which will provide security of supply and allow Eastern Canadian LDCs to diversify their supply portfolio to enhance customer access to the Dawn Trading Hub one of the top three physically traded natural gas market hubs in North America.
The expansion slated to go into service during the fourth quarter of 2015 provides customers the ability to ultimately access new supplies from the Marcellus and Utica through the NEXUS project.
The open project designed to deliver new incremental production from Utica to Marcellus to markets in the Midwest Southeast and Gulf Coast received its notice of schedule from FERC reaffirming that the project is on target to meet the planned 2015 in-service dates and will be placing two Texas Eastern projects into service during the last half of this year.
Team South and Team 2014.
Team south which is expected to go into service ahead of its November 1st schedule will be the first of our many north or south projects in-service.
Were on the home stretch on Team 2014 with a targeted November 1st in-service date.
Recall that this project creates capacity to the east and to the south of the Marcellus.
These projects underpinned by contracts with likes of CONSOL Rice Energy Chevron EQT total over $500 million in investments and they represent the first 600 million cubic feet a day of the 2.4 Bcf a day in projects that makes the Texas Eastern mainline by directional.
Thats a quick snapshot of some of the projects we have in execution.
Others in that category like our Gulf markets project and aim our likewise proceeding on schedule and on budget and support our plans for significant DCF growth which will in turn advance dividends and distribution growth.
Youll be hearing more about these projects later in the year.
So lets turn our attention now to the opportunities that will support growth in 2017 and beyond.
Beginning with U.S transmission.
Were pursuing a number of immediate and very near term prospects as the next 18 to 24 months provides exceptional infrastructure origination opportunities in the U.S.
There is a host of opportunities in the New England region which is currently constrained in terms of access to affordable natural gas supply.
Last month we announced plans to further expand our Algonquin and Maritimes &amp; Northeast systems.
This project would provide improved electric liability in New England by directly supplying about 60% of the regions most efficient gas-fired generation.
Were also further advancing the bi-directional capabilities on our Texas Eastern system.
In late July we commenced two new open seasons Access South and Adair Southwest.
These two projects provide incremental firm transportation capacity from Appalachian shale for the markets in the Southern U.S.
When these additional projects are complete by November 2017 the Texas Eastern System will be capable of providing 2.4 billion cubic feet per day of bi-directional capacity from Appalachian basin to the West Adair South.
And we announced an open season last week for another build on Texas Eastern to the East Appalachian market.
As the Utica and Marcellus continue to grow there continues to be producer interest in getting their supplies closer to the East Coast markets.
Were continuing to pursue opportunities in the Gulf Coast related to both LNG exports and growing industrial demand.
We also see the need for more pipeline infrastructure to serve electric generators and other customers in the Mid-Atlantic and South East U.S.
So our U.S transmission business has a lot of opportunities to pursue but there are also substantial growth opportunities within SEPs liquids business.
We expect to deliver on a number of new promising organic growth opportunities on the Express-Platte system projects to de-bottleneck the system which would increase utilization and attach new load and supply.
Were pursuing about $100 million in combined near-term organic growth opportunities on Express-Platte opportunities that will deliver attractive returns in the next couple of years.
And Ill note that were seeing similar organic opportunities associated with our NGL pipelines similar to the Red Lake and Spraberry expansions that I highlighted earlier.
Additionally we have a number of long-term step out liquids opportunities and we have received sufficient expressions of interest to continue pursuing expansions of our crude oil business through the end of the decade.
Together with Questar Pipeline were continuing development work on the inline California Express project which includes a new rail terminal in Southern California and reactivation of an existing pipeline into the Los Angeles/Long Beach refining complex.
We expect that over the next several months well select the preferred unloading terminal site and complete our engineering efforts and regulatory applications.
If things proceed as planned the ICE project would go into service in early 2017.
We likewise continue to make good progress on our larger longer-term liquids projects.
We have completed the preliminary environmental and engineering work for two in particular the Synergy Pipeline to further link growing oil sands production to the Edmonton-Hardisty hub and the twining of our entire Express-Platte system from Alberta to Illinois to bring growing oil sands supply to the Midwest and beyond.
Were continuing productive discussions with producers and refiners interested in both of these projects.
Turning to Western Canada we remain on track to receive our Environmental Assessment Certificate by year end for our West Coast connector pipeline to serve BG Groups proposed LNG export facility in British Columbia.
Of course there are many LNG projects being developed in BC and so we also expect to participate in gathering and processing and pipeline expansions needed by various LNG developers and producers.
Were already seeing a ramp up in producer activity in the Montney region of Western Canada and were in active discussions with potential customers to build Greenfield and brownfield gathering and processing facilities to be in service in 2018.
Well lots going on and lots of good results.
And as you can see not only are we executing on projects you have seen on this map before were originating new ones signing customer commitments and quickly responding to the fast paced market dynamics.
Lets turn now to the priorities we shared with you at the beginning of the year and the progress that were making on these important areas of focus.
We provided an in-depth view of our priorities during our first quarter call so I just want to remind you that were well on track and confident that we will deliver on all of these by year end.
The team is making great progress and its heavily focused on achieving these key priorities.
Here is whats new for this quarter.
Spectra Energy Partners is advancing our execution projects safely and successfully and I shared with you our strong momentum in delivering projects into service securing regulatory approvals and conducting the sitting public outreach design engineering and construction aspect so critical to project success.
And so far weve secured about a third or well in advance of a third if not the half of the $3 billion commitment we made at the beginning of the year.
We ramped up our existing contract volumes on the Sand Hills and Southern Hills NGL pipelines as we expected and we see additional opportunities ahead.
As noted were on track in the execution of our 2015 Dawn-Parkway project we have customer commitment supporting the 2016 expansion and we expect regulatory approval from the OEB in early 2015.
And during the fall of this year were planning to initiate another open season to solicit customer interest or additional capacity on Dawn-Parkway system for 2017.
As I mentioned were advancing approval of the permits on the West Coast connector pipeline weve completed some milestone environmental filings for the project continuing the important public outreach education engagement work associated with the project of this magnitude.
Again were confident that we will meet or exceed the full complement of our 2014 priorities by year end and we will continue to update you on that progress.
As you heard today Spectra Energy delivered a second quarter in line with our expectations and in addition to strong distributable cash flow growth.
Were pleased with our results for the quarter and pleased to be well ahead of our anticipated mid-year benchmark.
Were executing infrastructure projects that are critically needed and we continue to build our backlog of attractive strategic opportunities.
Were intently focused on our drive to 35 goal and we know how competitive the environment is today but we believe we have what it takes to win.
An enviable expansive North American asset footprint diverse footprint a proven ability to execute on projects and serve customers through safe reliable operations low cost of capital that enables us to efficiently execute and compete and the financial strength and flexibility to move swiftly on emerging and evolving value creation opportunities.
We need it and we will intend to hit on every cylinder in our drive to 35 well pursue Greenfield and brownfield expansions utilize both our MLPs and investment grade balance sheets wisely and consider value adding M&amp;A opportunities.
We know at the end of the day were chased with delivering attractive total shareholder returns and dividend and distribution growth our investor can count on.
And as Spectra Energy and SEP continue to outperform our investors will share in that upside work.
So with that let me turn things over to Julie so we can take your questions.
Thank you Greg.
So we would like to hear from your now so we will open up the lines for questions.
So Sally would you please provide instructions again on how folks can ask questions.
Certainly.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Christine Cho of Barclays.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Congrats on moving the new projects into execution.
Thank you.
For NEXUS are you still thinking one day pipeline? Well Dills  but I think were actually thinking up to be in a half is actually where the project will come in but as mentioned I think where weve got know we can move forward but Id expect to be in  Bill do you want to comment on that.
Yeah I agree.
I think were going to move forward with the 1.5 Bcf project now which is our current scope got the contract to support to the majority of that and of course you know were out for a supplemental open season to see if we can fill out the corners over the next few weeks.
When you say like majority of that is contracted I am guessing its well over 50% I mean should we think between 50% and 70% I am just trying to get a sense.
And also if you could provide the split between LDCs and producers? Yeah.
So your range is good and north of that actually and probably about 50-50 in a market pull from the LDC community and producer push.
Okay.
And then what is the ownership going to look like that I think one of your partners had pulled out or it expired.
So is it going to be just you and DTE splitting it 50-50 or are you going to get another partner? Well Id fully expect that when all is said and done that you will have the original three folks involved.
And as you know increasingly our customer also are interested in holding a piece.
I think thats still developing Christine but and thats why we said we expect probably $700 million to a $1 billion for investment for us.
So I wouldnt read a whole lot into them MoUs expiring.
Okay.
And then can you give us the capacity increases that you are thinking for the Spraberry and Red Lake expansions on Sand Hills and what you are seeing in a place to drive that? Sure let me get that for you Christine its about 500 million a day in total between the projects.
And No Pat I think you are thinking about the gas.
The project  on Spraberry is about a 100 000 barrels a day and really Sand Hills isnt incremental to or Red Lake isnt incremental to Sand Hills it just helps fill it up earlier by really helping us connect into our Zia II plant.
Okay.
So thats what I was trying to get to so it was actually like expansion on capacity or just like connecting to a new plant or something.
Connecting which obviously is important because that means that we can fill up Sand Hills faster obviously you fill up Sand Hills faster there is an opportunity for further expansion.
But the Spraberry one is actual capacity expansion.
Correct.
That is about a 100 000 barrels a day on Spraberry.
And then the contract at least for the Spraberry its going to look similar to your initial? Yeah.
Okay.
And then for your Texas Eastern Access South and South West where is this exactly going in the South East and when you say final by directional capacities are you saying that you wont be able to do any more of this physically or is this more a function of its going cost a lot more now and the rates wont be competitive.
Yeah I think Ill let Bill speak to that but in our last quarter there is concerns there wasnt anything else I think weve proven this quarter there is plenty of other things to do.
But Bill do you want to? Yeah.
So these are obviously right along the line.
So the Adair portion of the project probably 200 000 a day goes to Adair County in Kentucky and thats an interconnect weve got with Columbia Gulf and basically what thats doing is as the reversal or as the long line pipeline still up we kind of field up Texas Eastern first because we go right from the Marcellus down to the Gulf.
Well there is some other pipelines like Columbia Gulf doing quite at the right places but we can use Texas Eastern to get there.
So first one Adair is going to get a couple of hundred day into Columbia Gulf or redelivery to the Gulf.
Access gets down as far as Kazieczko Mississippi where were interconnected with a handful of pipelines there again to spread gas out into the Gulf thats going to be hopefully little over 300 a day.
So again very good capital efficient projects and no I would say that we keep finding this sort of pocket capacity and well yeah well prices sort of creep up overtime as the true open stuff gets sold out.
We do find ways to improve the existing system to move more out and honestly thats what the next team project or the access to market project rather would do which is bringing up to a Bcf going East on Texas East.
Yeah.
I think the real power that were identifying here Texas Asian is an incredible backbone that other people cant replicate and were building out that backbone I would expect will continue to find ways to do that.
Do you have a preliminary cost for the Access South and South West project? So between the portion going to Adair and a portion going to Access were probably between $300 and $400 million.
Okay.
And then last one from me this is just more out of curiosity.
But how does this lease with Magellan and why was it structured this way? Well you know Ozark was not being fully utilized so weve got a long term lease with them or will convert a portion of the pipeline and really what it is a volume then have to spend new capital on Greenfield.
So its your typical lease long term I think its seven or 10 years 10 year lease so there is nothing magical to it Christine maybe I am missing where youre trying to.
Well I guess are you going to spend the cost to convert it or is it going to be them? No were spending the cost to convert it and then well get a lease payment from them.
Yeah we basically ready the pipe to get into product service to convert it from gas to products and then thats a portion of the overall Magellan project and then there is still playing pipe out for gas service.
Yeah.
And they are building the piece on that as well Christine.
So I would yeah we I wouldnt focus too much on the word lease I mean arguably its no different on us building other piping pipeline.
Okay.
So like contractually so just contractually its very similar? Yeah absolutely.
Okay.
Thats what I was getting it.
Thank you.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Shneur Gershuni with UBS.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Shneur.
Good morning.
Just a couple of quick questions here.
Not to drive on the projects that you just spoke about with Christine but when I think about your drive to 35 I see that youve added 40 projects basically and if I remember correctly this 35 includes projects that have been put into service as well to shouldnt the number effectively go up a little bit with the new additions if something dropped off if you can sort of give us a little bit color as to is it 35 plus a little now or something else is changed in the mix.
Yeah.
I think if you go back what it was we put $6 million into service last year $7 billion we are executing so that gives you rough number $13 billion so you had 22 to go.
We added six more of this project sorry this quarter and those call it $2 billion $1.5 $2 billion of new projects.
So that helps fill it in further so I wouldnt say the $35 billion increases at this point in time.
Well see what happens going forward but thats really kind of the buildup.
So were fueling into the 35 billion.
Okay.
Great.
Secondly is that  I asked this question I realized youve done some drops DPM this year but I was wondering if strategically if you can talk about the potential for potentially accelerating drops as DPM has grown bigger it has an ability to handle more and so forth.
Is that something that you are considering is something that you are able to talk about a little bit? Sure.
I think at the beginning of the year we laid about a $1 billion of drop down with the potential of up to $1.05 and I think weve gone a little bit above 1 billion already this year we may do another one this year maybe not or maybe into the next year but I think your point is well taken we will continue to utilize DPMs currency much as we do with SEP here with our U.S gas transmission business to grow and fund that growth.
So I dont think its out the norm to think that there will be more activity at DPM on an ongoing basis and you will see bigger utilization of that vehicle overtime.
But we are already in excess of what we said we would do this year we maybe we may do a little bit more but it may flop over in the next year were not going to be driven by that calendar from that perspective.
Great.
And just one final question.
There has been a lot of projects proposed to bring gas into the North East and its been doing with markets made announced it recently as well too.
I was just wondering if you can sort of like step back and look at from a macro perspective is there a risk that some of these projects dont get done or conversely is there a robust enough demand effectively that will accommodate all of the projects or effectively being announced.
I was just wondering if you can sort plan on that a little bit.
Yeah.
Those are two separate questions and both the answer could be yes but in other words I think that they need all these projects that out there but there is a risk that some of them dont get done.
I particularly think the greenfield projects post some very unique challenges in the North East and youve got to get complete right in the way you are going into territories or areas or communities maybe they dont have the same experience with natural gas infrastructure and pipelines et cetera and we think that really does give advantage to those people that can do incremental builds but also be make sure that they dont have to use completely virgin territory in which to operate in.
And so from our perspective we for average projects brownfield than they are greenfield just to ensure that we can get them into service and build off the existing line so I mean you see that with New York New Jersey project that weve done the TEAM projects are similar examples of this.
There is obviously new pipeline that needs to go into New England but we like having to build off our system I think virtually anything that is done in New England will involve some development of Algonquin and Maritimes in North East regardless if its our bigger projects that move forward.
So I think that backbone is a critical piece but I think its all needed but I think you are right it may not all get done just because of political and other reasons.
When you say political are there any states that worry you more than others from a Greenfield perspective is New York can be more challenging versus some of the other New England states just I was wondering if you have any thoughts there? No comment.
I think importantly we serve about 60% of the generation needs in New England.
So some of this when I say politic it sort of means small people there is some lot of local politics which we spend so much time making sure that individuals and individual communities understand why what benefits were providing and I think that played out really well in New Jersey New York when local individuals and particularly after this winter saw the real benefit of having natural gas as opposed to relying on far more expensive resources of energy.
And I dont think that was lost on New England Politicians policymakers where LDCs and power producers and as such thats probably going to win the day from a cost benefit perspective.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thats all from me guys.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
Your line is open.
Hi Carl.
Thanks.
Hey guys.
Just a few maybe follow ups Ill be starting on the Northeast side in part because with Atlantic Bridge I was sort of thinking in the $500 million you kind of now using a range of a $1 billion.
And I see that in context of maybe thinking about eventually an aim to for lack of the better words something that would serve a generation load.
And I guess my question here is do you see Atlantic Bridge sort of more incrementally to serve some of that generation or is Atlantic Bridge going to be whether its the 500 million or the billion investments still fundamentally backstopped by only seasonally? Yeah.
Ill have Bill speak to this I mean him and his team are really mailing these projects and I think you are right I think what the point was on Atlantic Bridge was at least $500 million and it may be bigger but thought you might but...
Yes I think Carl just starting from the top you know AIM is going to be put in the service in 2016 thats 340 000 a day at about $1 billion.
The Atlantic Bridge we feel pretty comfortable with the folks that we have been talking to get good commitments that we actually think well probably fall into more you know 150 000 to 200 000 a day range and yeah we put the range out there in 500 million to a 1 billion I mean I would say were probably somewhere in the middle of the range again these are going to be all the LDCs for now simply because the process at the electric organizations are working through really havent yield it a whole a lot of fruit yet but to your point what we outlined in July what you I think are referring to as potentially and AIM 2 is a project that would focus on that component the 60% of the generation the region that Greg referred to come 2018.
There may be LDCs in that project as well depending on what happens with other efforts.
Bill in order to I mean as you kind of that as a 2018 or perhaps maybe just at the gas generators are moving quite perhaps as swiftly as we like.
Do you have a sense of timing as to when they are going to settle down with their pipeline commitments I mean is that kind of end of year 2014 end of year 2015 how should we think about that? Yeah I think you know I do plot them for getting together and for the  we are trying to move this process a lot because the way that it set up its not conducive for the generators to do this on the ground they need some help.
So I when you think about its naturally going to take a little bit of time to get all of those parties together I do believe that there are some nice solutions on the table we talked to these folks weekly if not honestly almost every other day to try to figure out what the right solutions as a fine tune what we are looking at.
I would say Id be surprise if we didnt have some movement by the end of the year or early next.
Excellent.
And if I could do a follow-up on NEXUS just as we view and I think Christine has a lot of questions I think one though I just want to make sure we have seen a lot competitive pressure obviously in the area and should we think about with what you have contracted today? Should we think about that meeting sort of the minimum hurdle rates of your normal return on capital employed or is there still more that needs to be backfilled even though you know you have enough for instance to make it viable.
No I think you can assume that we have got enough to make it viable today and moving forward and meeting our typical type of return youre right there is a lot of competition but this is different project than a lot of others right nobody else is actually going to the North and nobody else is actually gaining into Ontario and serving those markets so I think there just as we talked in New England and over a year ago people were concerned and we have been working on this project for two years Carl right so people were concerned Utica wasnt ramping up I think those concerns are going away so feel very good about the returns and yes the competition is tough but there is a need for multiple projects and this one is quite unique and Bill I dont if you want to speak to uniqueness of that as well.
Well yeah just to add we are going from the Utica and really from the Marcellus as well so far with our sales right to where the markets want to go and using I think one of the benefits we got is weve got a greenfield component but in this again we are using existing facilities right away and of course back two system to get into Dawn so very doable by 2017 right.
Excellent excuse me.
Last question if I could maybe Ill get back in queue excuse me choked up.
Be safe.
Your next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Faisel.
Just a few questions actually one question on Petco so between TEAM 14 and the South expansion and then the Gulf market expansion and open it seems like thats 1.8 Bcf a day can you just clarify how much of that volume sort of gets directly on the Marcellus and Utica down to the Gulf Coast Louisiana and Texas and the reason I am asking is because youve seen basis in almost all the markets in the entire North East quadrant of the U.S.
sort of dip here in the summer and just wondering how much of that capacity you guys are building out is going to make it all the way down south sort of below the M2 markets.
Right I think there are only two of those really do that right Bill so I dont know about the volume.
Yeah about 2 Bcf of the Texas Eastern mainline can will be reverse Yes 2017 all the way back to Kazieczko lets say and from their trends out in the Gulf so it depends on how you define Gulf but two 2 bcf makes it 2 for Gulf region the rest of it you know is sort of pockets getting to other pipeline that make it out of the Gulf or two other markets.
So the 2 bcf a day by 2017.
So as I am looking at the 2014 number so the team 14 and I guess the South expansion thats about 900 a day so how much that by end of this year gets to the Gulf? By the end of this year well have 600 13 14 and its TEAM South firm.
TEAM South.
For Gulf yes and then of course as we build out open in Gulf markets and now the project that Access South it builds up through 2015 2016 2017.
Okay.
I understand.
I mean the customer  how the customer demand is sort of evolving here I mean in New York City it used to be the place you wanted to get your gas to now its like  its kind of like I am not sure if you want to get your gas to the city because its not a great price.
So I am just trying to figure how your customer sort of demand is evolving along these lines? To be honest its like the Gulf Coast was moved into South West Pennsylvania and the way were looking at it that the [inaudible] that weve got that runs in both directions moving out of there and now with NEXUS moving forward getting up into Michigan and Ontario.
You really sort of building an octopus youve got the big supply in the middle and you got to get legs out the existing ones are the easiest to do but then some others coming out so from a customer standpoint whether its producer or LDC they are looking to tie a line into the Marcellus Utica region.
Okay understood.
And just one another question from me on the ICE project so what are the sort of next critical sort of milestones for that project I mean at least for the regulators I mean what are they looking for and what do you have to deliver for that in the near term? Well its a couple of things were still firming up customer interest there are some other projects out there as you know at least one other although our belief is that there is room for both and the big one is determining unloading terminal site and moving forward on the regulatory approvals.
I would say customers want to be comfortable that regulatory approval and really thats around environmental will be weve got a high level of confidence so we have got to firm that up here over the next couple of months to make sure that were comfortable telling customers if we make commitment to them we will in fact deliver so thats really the next stage here still work to do on that one Faisel and as you know out of our $35 billion for the project I would represent a 100 million so its not a huge but I think I really think as you know I was probably more skeptical on this a to a year and now given everything thats been done the interest that we are seeing and work thats going I am optimistic about the project.
Okay fair enough.
I appreciate the time thanks.
Thanks Faisel.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Olsen with TPH.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning Brad.
My first question maybe unsurprisingly at this point it is also kind of on NEXUS and the New England project that youve advanced.
Those projects are in direct competition with some big competitive projects from energy transfer In Kinder Morgan and Greg if you alluded to earlier both of those competitor projects are dependent on significant new build pipelines going through the North East having to acquire right away and go through a more rigorous regulatory process perhaps.
Youve talked a little bit about the contract levels on NEXUS I guess my question is more broad across both of these projects.
Would you say that youre scoping these projects in anticipation of perhaps being able to scoop incremental customers as potentially those competitive projects move more slowly through their right of way acquisition and regulatory approval? I think a little bit about thats so much in New England New England were pretty solidly got those filled up I think with NEXUS there is a little bit of that.
I will say weve I think weve put realistic schedules out there on those and so I think thats important I have no idea what other people are saying and their contracts other than in terms of being able to meet those commitments and I think that will serve us well in terms of credibility delivering.
You mentioned that competitors Brad thats no different in the competition we had in the last 30 years they may have different names but those are our folks in the North East and throughout along Texas Eastern we have two really main competitors that weve had for a long time and obviously East Tennessee and obviously we go against energy transfer on a regular basis.
So I dont think there is anything unique about the competition I mean our key is we want to move projects forward when they hit our hurdle rates.
I will say on most of our projects when we look back we wish we actually size the bigger I mean the open project frankly we would probably seated in twice the size on that project didnt have customer commitments to do that twice the size but I can tell you a lot of people knock on the door for that kind of thing.
So I first meet the hurdle rate and if there is an opportunity to size it such that you can get all your regulatory approvals but also leave some opening I think thats a smart idea too.
The next 18 to 24 months are really the origination window that I think its going to drive much of peoples growth and activity through the end of the decade and thats what were focused on doing.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.</strong> Great.
And just maybe to dig a little bit deeper as you kind of think about the competitive dynamic specifically in that kind of Mid-Western market it seems between press releases and market chatter it sounds the NEXUS customers list is really dominated by LDCs with maybe consolidating the one major producer commitment and the Rover customer sounds much more like it has no LDC support to speak of but significant E&amp;P support.
If Enbridge is kind of moving out of that position as of third JV partner is there may be contemplated strategy to bring in energy transfer as a third partner and combining into a project that could be between two and three and maybe offer a more cost competitive solution? Well I think first of all I wouldnt agree with the articulation that most of ours is LDC I think as Bill said earlier we would look it as 50-50 if not 60% producer and we do have a number of producers that have signed commitments to that but all that being said I also dont as I said before I would expect Enbridge would ultimately be involved and thats their choice and I know they are trying to grow their gas business but well see thats the extent.
But however the projects do go different places both from a starting point and both from an end point as well we like our competitive advantage that weve got there we like to schedule that weve laid out and the momentum well build on that and I never say never to anything I mean our goal is to do whats in the best interest of first and foremost our investors and secondly in a very close second if not tie for our customers.
And so if there is better solutions were always open to that on partnerships but I like where we are today and I think Bill and his team very much like where they are today and again not just LDC support.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.</strong> Got it.
On the Magellan JV there is about a half day of capacity on Ozark as far as gas capacity goes out of the Fayetteville today.
You mentioned that not all that capacity is being utilized.
Is the lease agreement that you have with Magellan going to de-rate any of that 500 million a day of gas capacity or is it something where with compression youll be able to preserve effectively all the capacity you have for when pipelines like SEP or the Fayetteville lateral when those start rolling off contracts or you are going to be in a position maybe to compete for Fayetteville volumes on Ozark as well? Were taking were going to lose that capacity although I am not concerned about that.
Actually in the piece that were losing I think itll still allows to serve various customers but yeah we will actually de-rate or our filing will be and I think that goes in next month or a little bit later and maybe that will actually take it out of gas natural gas utilization and move it directly to refined product.
So it wasnt something we could just do a work around its we need the pipe yeah...
Weve talked to all the there with a really handful of customers that were effective and they have options and then whats remaining we feel is probably right size for our participation in the Fayetteville.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.</strong> Great.
That helps a lot.
And final question which is a pretty big picture question on the Western Canadian side of things.
You guys have talked about relatively near term gathering and processing growth in Canada maybe as near term as the next 12 months despite the fact that LNG projects seemed to kind of be towards the back half of the decade and maybe even getting pushed into early next decade.
I guess on the bright side weve seen some enhanced completion techniques specifically in the Montney that guys like in EnCana seem to be getting maybe plus 50 to 100% IP rates on some of the wells that theyve been completing here recently.
Have you begun to discuss the potential volume metric upside with producers and I know this is a difficult question to kind of get arms around especially this early in the game up there but is there any way that we can think of potentially returns on existing assets increasing as we see completion methods improve even any uplift from LNG.
Is there a way that we can kind of think of in EBIT or in EBITDA number that you could see maybe adding onto what you are already able to generate up there as a result of these new improved completion techniques? Yeah.
I would say our utilization are pretty good in very high level and weve seen that kind of to your point weve seen a little bit of a rotation to the south from the north east to British Columbia as a result of whats going on in the Montney and other regions.
So I dont see a big upside to that piece but that being said I do see a full utilization of our plants thats kind of tough from an EBITDA number from that perspective.
I think thats far in excess of that as you point out one people start to take a feel good about taking FID and LNG and some people have talked about at the end of this year and some others next year and again 16.
Thats when they will start to have building gathering and processing facilities and thats where we feel we have a real advantage.
So I dont think its so much adding to or fully utilizing the plants we have we largely have that other than a couple of places in the Horn.
I think its really about the new builds that are going to drive and that will happen well in advance of the LNG because remember as that production comes on they got to find places to utilize that.
And youll see us probably in the next six months move forward with some pipe expansion on our pipeline system just to deal with the gas thats being produced now in advance and separates from what happens from an LNG perspective.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.</strong> Got it.
Well thats all from me.
Thanks a lot guys.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Becca Followill with U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Your line is now open.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Becca.
Really nice addition to the backlog and its incredible on whats going on in the industry.
Does this change your guidance for 8% to 9% dividend growth at Spectra or if it doesnt what would what change would you need to see in the backlog in order to up that? Well I think its sure give us a lot of and we already had a lot of confidence on the number I think as you know we start to put together our next round of three year plans we laid out a three year plan for the street not everybody does that and we havent done that before.
I think Ill hedge a little bit on that question.
So let us get through our plants through the end of the year but I will also say as Ive mentioned in the past if we are doing better I fully expect given the structure that we have or we want to pass some of that better onto investor.
So I think directionally I am on the same page as you are but we need to get plans together and obviously its a discussion with the board but as we get more and more of that 35 billion and the sooner we get it thats an opportunity for investors to realize the benefits as well.
There is a couple of really nice big pieces small and the Spraberry pieces some of the organic stuff I mentioned briefly with respect to Express-Platte those might only be 100 few $100 million but they have very robust returns because you are able to build off the existing backbone.
So let us get towards the end of the year back and come back and get that well get that momentum gone.
Thank you.
Thats helpful.
And then second on the 2.4 bcf a day and residential bidirectional capacity on Texas Eastern does that involve any turn back of capacity by customers? No maam.
As you know we continue to see 98% plus so I guess if you consider that small amount but as you know we then go out that and re-market at top rates.
Great.
Thank you.
And I have missed it but I dont  hear on any projects North Carolina associated with Duke RSP? Yeah thats obviously one were pursuing but I know thats confidential and its not part of our $35 billion as you know its a new market were going into but my understanding is that Dukes going to come to some conclusion on that in the next few weeks or months and they will make a decision on that but that would be a nice new market and that would be in advance of $35 billion if we got it but its not in that number right now.
Thank you.
And then last question is whats the timing to make a decision on potentially 20 and Express-Platte? I think to be totally frank the amount of work that needs to be done there for us to take FID is probably 24 months away as you know that would be probably the single largest project weve ever done well in excess at 100% level of $5 billion so thats not going to happen tomorrow.
But I do like the work thats being done I do like the interest by refiners and producers and were going to continue to push that one hard.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Okay.
Thanks Becca.
So this is Julie again and I am unfortunately going to have to bring the call to a close but we want to thank everyone for joining us today.
As always you can give myself or Roni Cappadonna a call and we will be following up with folks that we know we left in the queue.
So well appreciate your attention and thanks for joining us.
This concludes todays conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Stephanie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the third quarter earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Julie Dill Chief Communications Officer for Spectra Energy you may begin your conference.
Thank you Stephanie and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today for our review of Spectra Energy's and Spectra Energy Partners' 2014 third quarter results.
With me today are Greg Ebel CEO of both Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners; and Pat Reddy Chief Financial Officer of both companies.
Pat will begin by sharing our financial highlights for the quarter.
Additional information on these results are detailed in both the Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners earnings releases as well as the appendix to today's presentation all of which are available on the Investor Pages of our website.
Next Greg will update you on the progress we're seeing across the enterprise to deliver long-term shareholder value.
And as always we'll leave ample time for your questions following Greg's remarks.
Our Safe Harbor statement is contained within our presentation materials and available on our websites.
This disclaimer is important and integral to all our remarks so I would ask that you refer to it as you review our materials.
Also contained in our presentation materials are non-GAAP measures that we reconcile to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and those reconciliations are also available on our website.
So with that let me turn things over to Pat.
Well good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Spectra Energy's third quarter results are well in line with our expectations and reflect continued growth in earnings and cash flows from our ongoing capital expansion program.
Our businesses delivered solid performances for the quarter with SEP in particular posting exceptional results.
Our consistent performance and the growth opportunities we are realizing gives us the confidence to increase Spectra Energy dividend by $0.14 on an annual basis to $1.48 per share or an increase of 10.5%.
Not only is this increase larger than we had conveyed earlier this year we're commencing the higher payment in the fourth quarter.
So let's turn now to the third quarter and the EBITDA results we delivered.
As you'll note in the yellow highlighted area on Slide 3 Spectra Energy generated ongoing EBITDA of $704 million this quarter compared with $758 million in the prior year's quarter.
Spectra Energy Partners delivered ongoing EBITDA of $401 million $51 million higher than in the same period last year.
The key drivers for the change in EBITDA are: growth in earnings and cash flows from execution of the capital expansion programs at both our SEP and DCP segments which were more than offset by a weaker Canadian dollar which was down about 5% from the prior year quarter lowering EBITDA contributions from our Canadian segments by $12 million; higher plant turnaround cost this quarter relative to last year in Western Canada; lower equity earnings from DCP due to higher noncontrolling interest as a result of increased drop downs to DPM and mark-to-market changes in the value of hedges where DCP as the counterparty for DPM.
This trend will continue with future drop downs but while we will lose net income Spectra Energy will continue to benefit from the growth in GP and LP distributions from DPM.
In addition DCP had lower gains associated with the issuance of DPM units compared with last year's quarter.
So all in all a quarter in line with our expectations for EBITDA.
Given that our investors are increasingly focused on cash generation to support ongoing dividend growth let's turn to distributable cash flow or DCF on Slide 4.
Spectra Energy's DCF was $236 million for the quarter $10 million more than last year's quarter.
With our more than $1.1 billion in DCF year-to-date we continue to expect distribution coverage to be 1.5x on a full year basis exceeding our original estimate of 1.4x.
Distributable cash flow at SEP was $247 million for the quarter with coverage expected to be 1.2x on a full year basis.
You'll recall that with the drop down of our remaining U.S.
assets into SEP last November we recast earnings but not distributable cash flows.
Consistent with our objective to enhance transparency around DCP's cash flow we are now providing DCP's DCF in our quarterly earnings material.
Not only that this disclosure align with our increased communication of cash based financial metrics it should also provide a means for investors to more easily value DCP and DPM cash flows to its owners.
So distributable cash flow DCP for Spectra Energy is 50% stake was $61 million for the quarter and $184 million year-to-date.
You will find more details associated with the distributable cash flow calculations for Spectra Energy Spectra Energy Partners and now DCP as well in the appendix to our presentation and on our website.
As we continue to focus on cash-based financial metrics we are highlighting the actual cash contributions to Spectra Energy from both SEP and DPM that are embedded in Spectra Energy's distributable cash flow.
Spectra Energy received general partner and limited partner distributions from SEP for the quarter of $44 million and $134 million respectively.
Year-to-date we received GP distributions of $123 million and LP distributions of $396 million from SEP.
DPM the general partner and limited partner distributions of $14 million and $9 million respectively for our account further contributing the Spectra Energy's DCF.
As DCP continues to drop down assets to DPM and noncontrolling interest becomes a larger component of earnings the owners have adopted a new methodology for calculating owner distributions from DCP.
Effective with the fourth quarter payment made in late October DCP will now make owner distributions based on distributable cash flow rather than net income.
DCP declared owner distributions of $57 million to Spectra Energy in the third quarter of 2014 with year-to-date declared distributions of $177 million.
Last quarter we reminded you that we expected about half of our 2014 EPS target of $1.40 to be earned in the second half of the year in keeping with historical patterns.
Thanks to a strong performance in the first quarter and results in line with the expectations for the second and third quarters we continue to expect to significantly exceed the $1.40 target assuming normal winter weather on a forward commodity curve that remains consistent with current outlooks.
So overall we are pleased with the quarter and where we are year-to-date with strong currencies and a balance sheet to support the additional growth we see coming.
So with that let me turn things over to Greg to talk about our portfolio of growth projects our priorities and the progress we continue to make toward our goals.
Well thank you very much Pat and thanks to everybody for joining us today.
As Pat described Spectra Energy's third quarter results really do reflects strong performance by our base business and the positive earnings and distributable cash flow generated by the assets we are consistently delivering into service.
I say consistent because consistency is imperative and important theme for us.
Spectra Energy is dedicated to delivering reliable results to our investors customers and of course to stakeholders.
That dedication is evident in our focus on operational excellence and our commitment to bring critically needed projects into service on time and on budget.
I think it's also apparent in our record of delivering attractive returns and dividends and distribution growth underscored by Spectra Energy's most recent dividend increase of 10.5%.
That dividend increase affirms our successful execution of our growth strategy and our pursuit of new opportunities that bring with them long-term contracted firm cash flows to serve our investors going forward.
We have indicated to you previously that we've secured $35 billion of expansion projects between 2013 and 2020.
And we're doing just that.
Of the $35 billion $16 billion almost half has now been placed into service or is in execution.
We delivered 2 projects totaling more than $500 million into service this year which I'll speak to shortly.
Year-to-date we've moved almost $3 billion in growth projects into execution including 4 projects in the third quarter alone.
We're in an unprecedented environment of infrastructure growth and favorable dynamics and we're pursuing multiple projects that will allow us to achieve our goals.
So let's take a look at how we're doing and where we're headed.
The best way to gauge our progress I think is to look at the map.
You can see our expanding position our impressive slate of projects and our record of executing successfully consistently and with an eye toward sustainable results that reward our investors.
Our list of projects and service and execution continues to grow.
During the third quarter alone we placed TEAM South into service 2 months before its scheduled in-service date.
This 300 million cubic feet per day project was fully utilized on its first in-service date highlighting the pronounced need for this takeaway capacity.
In addition TEAM 2014 which will help customers move Marcellus gas production both east and south came in well within budget and is fully operational this month.
Both TEAM South and TEAM 2014 underpinned by contracts with CONSOL Rice Energy Chevron and EQT total more than $500 million in investment.
And they represent the first 600 million cubic feet per day of the 2.4 Bcf a day in projects that will transform Texas Eastern to a bidirectional system by 2017.
We're also making great progress on the projects in execution.
By January 1 2015 the Kingsport Expansion Project which expands Spectra Energy's East Tennessee system and the Spraberry Supply Lateral off our Sand Hills NGL line will go into service.
And we moved another $700 million of expansion capital into execution during the quarter.
Access South and Adair Southwest 2 projects that advanced the bidirectional capabilities of Texas Eastern will provide incremental firm transportation capacity from Appalachian shale to markets in Southern U.S.
Access South is fully subscribed with Rice Energy; and Adair Southwest is fully subscribed with Range Resources.
Both projects will be in service by November 2017 with a combined capital expenditure of approximately $350 million.
New to our map is another project now in execution.
Stratton Ridge which is a component of our Gulf Coast LNG opportunities.
This Texas Eastern project will deliver natural gas supplies to Gulf Coast LNG markets and is moving forward with an anchor shipper to serve Freeport LNG.
The more than $200 million capital expansion project is scheduled to be in service in 2019.
The fourth project we've moved into execution is the recently announced PennEast project a 1 Bcf per day pipeline that will connect Northeast Pennsylvania production to our Texas Eastern and Algonquin systems.
We have committed to take a 10% equity ownership in the approximately $1 billion project.
The investment allows us to leverage existing assets to directly connect to growing northeast Marcellus production and partner with some of our biggest customers: AGL NJR South Jersey UGI and PSEG.
PennEast has an anticipated in-service date of November 2017.
Those are projects that are new to our execution ledger but there's a lot of progress across the board.
We plan to submit our FERC application for the Sabal Trail pipeline in Florida by year end keeping us on schedule for a 2017 in-service date.
The Algonquin Incremental Market project or AIM is 100% subscribed by New England's major local distribution companies.
And we expect to receive our FERC certificate for this billion-dollar project in the first quarter of 2015.
NEXUS which will bring supply diversity to U.S.
Midwest and Eastern Canadian markets by delivering Utica and Marcellus gas has signed precedent agreements with Chesapeake CNX Gas and Noble in addition to previously announced agreements with Midwest U.S.
and Eastern Canadian LDCs.
This 1.5 Bcf per day project provides Spectra Energy with an investment opportunity in the $700 million to $1 billion range and is scheduled for a late 2017 in-service date.
During the quarter both our OPEN and Uniontown to Gas City expansion projects received their FERC environmental assessments and we anticipate receiving final FERC certificates for both these projects in the first quarter of next year.
The $500 million OPEN and $60 million Uniontown to Gas City projects are both scheduled to commence in-service in the fourth quarter of 2015.
We've been working hard to move our projects forward and take full advantage of this amazing window of opportunity in the U.S.
This year alone we've completed 6 FERC filings received 3 FERC certificates and achieved 4 important regulatory milestones with environmental assessments and draft and final environmental impact statements that move our projects forward.
Moving onto the growth plans at Union Gas.
We're on track in the execution of our 2015 Dawn-Parkway project as well.
Additionally we have customer commitment supporting the 2016 Dawn-Parkway expansion and filed our facilities application with the Ontario Energy Board in September.
We expect an OEB decision on the 2016 project in the first half of next year.
And while still in development I'll mention here that by year end we plan to launch our open season to seek market interest in a further expansion of our Dawn-Parkway system to 2017.
In total the 3 Dawn-Parkway projects represent a CapEx investment of well over $1 billion.
So as you've seen and heard we're making good on the commitments we made to investors executing consistently on a range of projects that contribute very stable cash flows earnings and provide attractive returns.
Let me turn now to the great opportunities we're also pursuing.
We continue to believe that the next 18 months represents a defining period in which important decisions about U.S.
natural gas infrastructure are going to be made.
Spectra Energy fully intends to participate and lead that massive replumbing and we've got a great backlog of projects in all the different phases of development.
Access Northeast will improve electric reliability in New England by directly supplying about 60% of the region's most efficient gas-fired power generation.
The project will expand our Algonquin and Maritimes &amp; Northeast systems and utilize their existing footprints.
We're partnering with Northeast Utilities on this $3 billion joint venture and we're in active discussions with additional potential partners.
Yesterday we launched an open season for the South Texas Expansion Project or STEP.
The project is designed to deliver natural gas supplies to markets in South Texas.
And we're targeting an early 2017 in-service date for the STEP project.
Our Appalachia to Market project represents another build-out of the Texas Eastern system to the East.
Our open season for the project resulted in very strong expressions of interest in numerous bids and we're working with bidders to determine the optimal solution for moving their gas to markets.
We're also advancing development on our liquids projects.
Progress on the Inland California Express Project continues with Questar and we are in active negotiations with the terminal site landowner.
And will compete preliminary engineering and submit conditional land land-use applications in the next few months.
If all proceeds as planned the ICE Project will go into service in 2017.
We're also enhancing our Express and Platte crude oil pipelines.
On Express we're pursuing the construction of on-system storage to allow for additional contracted capacity and we plan to conduct an open season by year end and begin service in 2016.
And as we announced in October we're pursuing a new oil pipeline project with service from Guernsey Wyoming to Patoka Illinois.
The project will provide shippers with unprecedented access to markets in eastern PADD 2 and the flexibility to meet light crude refinery demand on the Gulf Coast.
It's targeted to be in service in 2017 with an initial capacity of about 400 000 barrels a day.
So clearly there's no shortage of opportunities and we're actively pursuing those that build out our asset base enhance our competitive position and of course enable us to deliver desirable returns for our investors.
Let's turn now to the priorities we shared with you at the beginning of the year and report on the progress we're making on these important areas of focus.
You'll note a lot of positive checkmarks which indicates an achievement of a particular goal.
Those that aren't checked are in progress and on track and some can't be fully assessed until we have fully covered the year and got that under our belt.
But here is where we are and what's new for the quarter.
Our U.S.
Transmission business has made great strides toward its $3 billion in expansion project goal getting very close to that target at this point.
Year to date the business has secured $2.3 billion of new projects.
As you will recall many of our natural gas pipeline contracts come up for renewal in November 1 of each year and I'm pleased to report that once again we have achieved a renewal rate of more than 99% of our contracted revenue on Texas Eastern and Algonquin.
Earlier this year our Liquids business expanded the Buffalo terminal out of the Express pipeline which fulfilled the goal of expanding on system pipes and terminals.
And good progress on 2 priorities at Union Gas.
We have a strong stable asset base there of course and we continue to add approximately 20 000 customers per year.
And our customers increasingly express a growing interest to procure a supply at Dawn which is driving the related transmission expansions on our system which I mentioned.
In addition earlier this year we filed an application with the Ontario Energy Board to modify our Hagar LNG balancing facility to produce additional LNG to the expanding transportation and mining sectors in Ontario.
And as previously mentioned Union Gas has filed its facilities application with the OEB for the 2016 Dawn-Parkway expansion project.
We're continuing to work hard all of our -- on all of our priorities and goals and we'll update you again when we report our fourth quarter and year-end results.
We're pleased with the third quarter performance and with the progress we're making in our capital expansion program and you can count on us to continue to deliver on our growth project and here's why: Spectra Energy's execution advantage allows us to deliver infrastructure projects that are critically needed and build the backlog of attractive strategic opportunities.
Quarter-after-quarter and year-after-year we demonstrated our ability to bring projects into service on time and on budget and importantly to the satisfaction of our customers.
And keep in mind the projects we're delivering are firm fixed-fee projects with very long-term contracts.
We've got the financial strength and flexibility to continue executing on our expansion plans and we're able to move quickly and decisively to optimally leverage our structure and our balance sheet and related [ph] to finance all of this growth within advantage cost of capital versus our peers.
And we demonstrated our ability to deliver consistent attractive dividend and distribution growth across various market and commodity cycles.
You see that again in our announced 10.5% increase in the annual Spectra Energy dividend which confirms our commitment to create and grow investor value.
There's more value to come as we capture the opportunities and pursue the growth that you've heard about today.
But with that let me thank you for your time today and turn things over to Julie so we can take your questions.
Thank you Greg.
So we want to hear from you now and we'll open up the lines for your questions.
So Stephanie if you would please provide instructions on how folks can ask questions I'd I appreciate that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Greg I want to go back to your comments regarding transforming Texas Eastern to a bidirectional line by 2017.
When you think about other bidirectional opportunities behind Access South and Adair Southwest and also including your Appalachia to Market project when you're talking with producers and you're looking at the multi-year production profile there how much more incremental Appalachian takeaway capacity and CapEx do you think is necessary? And when do you think we get to a point where we possibly could get saturated with too much incremental pipe and not enough volume to fill it? Well I guess to the first point is we don't build incremental capacity unless we've got contracts to it typically 100%.
On occasion I guess we got 70% or 80% also.
I'm not very worried about building too much capacity at least from a Spectra Energy perspective that is not contracted.
We've got about $1 billion more of projects when you look at OPEN Uniontown to Gas City the Gulf Market stuff Adair Southwest and Access South.
All that stuff is $1 billion more than say the $500 million or so that we put in today through TEAM South and TEAM 2014.
That takes you out to that second half of 2017 from that perspective.
And again all those are contracted for.
So from our perspective Darren I don't see a concern from too much pipe and not enough volume.
I think at some point in time as the LNG projects get going fully I think the next interesting thing is when you get out to that '17 '18 time frame we seem to keep finding ways to get incremental volumes.
But at some point in time as Marcellus get as large as it does the really exciting thing for us is what else can we do with Texas Eastern do you actually -- or Texas Eastern might build a very large pipe that starts to move incremental volumes as well.
So I think at this point in time we've got as I said another $1 billion of projects or so to get us up near that 2.4 number.
But then I'm sure we'll find some pieces along the way as our operational guys have done.
I think a similar question was probably asked a year ago: Did we have additional opportunities? And we're probably hesitant to say all those -- at there now on the books.
But what you've seen over the last year we've added several new projects that just goes to show that capability.
So hopefully that answer -- answers your question.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes it does.
And if I could just as a follow-up maybe frame that opportunity set a little bit different with a question.
Just trying to get a feel beyond 2017 as you outlined from kind of an unlevered rate of return perspective.
As you think about further leveraging Texas Gas and moving a lot of that Northeast production South or possibly to Midwest or down to the Mid-Atlantic.
If the Marcellus and Utica ends up being a 20 or 22 or 23 Bcf a day market in terms of dry gas production by the end of the decade where do you see geographically the biggest opportunity set beyond kind of what you've got in the backlog as your commercial guys are looking to lever incremental aspects of Texas gas? What's the next stage of evolution on that pipe? Well I think if you look at things on Texas Eastern I think there's a couple of interesting pieces.
Think about the PennEast project which is only a 10% position but that's going to the Northeast Marcellus where as you know Texas Eastern does not run directly through.
So being able to leverage areas that we're not accessing today.
And then there's things like the STEP project which is going to move projects -- move gas for those who don't want to use compressor stations they use geographic areas.
It gets them going from Belmont to Corpus Christi.
That's an opportunity as well.
So I think as you start to see all of the assets start to point south when you end up going as far west as say the middle of Pennsylvania or Ohio you're going to continue to see assets points south so STEP-type of project.
And as I said ultimately producers I think are going to need a much bigger solution some time post-2017.
And I think those of us with existing right away ability to deliver on pipes and end up serve them well on the smaller projects are going to be in a good position.
Research Division</strong> You posted some solid numbers for SEP.
And just due to the drop down and all that stuff for year-over-year comps it's a little difficult to tell where exactly the bps are coming from.
So if we were to exclude the onetime event such as the cold weather earlier this year can you give us more color on where your results are better than you expected? Is it Express type? Is it the NGL lines? Is it TETCO? Any insight there.
Yes yes.
So I think you're right the cold weather largely affects the Union a little bit of benefit.
But yes I mean if you look at SEP it's things like a full year of New Jersey New York which is probably the biggest change from that perspective and other U.S.
Transmission expansion continued to ramp up of Sand Hills and Southern Hills and then the crude transportation revenue as well Christine.
So pretty well on all of those fronts we're seeing the benefits that are really starting to play through from a cash flow perspective.
Particularly as you turn things like equity AFUDC into projects that turns into real cash and hence the accelerating Bcf.
Research Division</strong> Well but I mean like all of those things I would think were included in the guidance that you gave for what you're expecting from the drop down at the end of last year.
So like what's coming in ahead of budget? Well I'd say New Jersey and New York is coming in a little ahead.
We always have some incremental volumes that we put through.
The guys always seem to find a way to do that.
We're doing better on Sand Hills and Southern Hills than we expected and the crude oil pipeline as well.
And also a little bit on the cost front as well is helping Christine.
It seems [indiscernible] that we're doing better.
And I think you really see that benefit and I think maybe we're -- we typically try to give people a good forward look.
But as you look at the cash and the benefits that are ongoing they've just added to the you're right a very strong first half of the year.
More IT on Texas Eastern as you pointed to in the first quarter as well.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
Your partner in the Canadian LNG project has recently talked down the likelihood of moving forward with the project.
When I look at your CapEx guidance through '16 there are some big numbers there are for 2015 and '16 for Western Canada.
And I think most of the spending in the Montney processing should be done by now.
So I'm guessing a lot of it is for the pipeline since original timing plans to reach FID or some time next year I think.
I'm assuming -- and I'm assuming very little of that CapEx was tied to expectations for increased GNP activity at least in '15 '16 since even if another LNG project goes it wouldn't be until the end of the decade and lead times to build a processing plant isn't as long.
So how much of that CapEx is potentially at risk? Well I think in '16 you'll see some of it shift out.
That's probably what you'll see but I don't see many much change in '15.
Some of the GNP were -- remember the GNP work isn't all tied to a single LNG project.
As we've consistently said anybody that moves forward with an LNG project whether it's our project or somebody else we would expect to probably put about $1 billion to work over the following 18 months after FID as they ramp up the need for gathering and for processing if it isn't us.
So that's one.
Two I don't think -- well BG as you know is going through a CEO change so I think you shouldn't be surprised to see some delays on that front.
But -- so call it at risk I don't see it as risk.
I do think maybe you could see a shift in timing on the LNG spend associated with that project.
And as you pointed out there are other LNG projects that are out there that are being worked on but they aren't public.
So I think there's a combination of GNP dollars that will still come in regardless of the projects.
And I think probably what you'll see when we come out in February our specific projects with respect to LNG for BG you'll probably see that back end shift out a bit.
And we've typically put up 3-year numbers that we have in the last year and I'd expect to see that again.
So you'll get a good view for that on '17.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
PennEast you have a small minority stake and it's nonoperated.
So it sounds like your decision to get into this project is more strategic and you talked out leveraging your existing footprint.
Are there plans to add interconnects with TETCO and Algonquin? And anymore insight into why you decided to stake -- take a stake...
Yes right.
That's absolutely the reason Christine.
So as you know where Texas Eastern doesn't run through some of those areas that PennEast is going to serve.
So we will build direct interconnects with Texas Eastern and hopefully Algonquin as well.
So you're exactly right.
I mean our customers are going to a location.
We'd like to go with our customers and serve the needs that they have.
Obviously it's a small investment opportunity there call it $100 million.
But yes it's really the opportunity that go to and have an opportunity to get into markets that our current pipelines don't go to but also leverage the existing pipeline system through Texas Eastern and Algonquin.
So yes I think you'd expect to see those customers use opportunities along Texas Eastern and Algonquin.
Research Division</strong> Are you going to have to expand TETCO and Algonquin as a result of this? We may.
I mean let's hope that's the opportunity.
I mean we have to see how it all pans out but there's a Bcf a day that's got to go somewhere so I think we'll be looking at opportunities to do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question for me.
The Stratton Ridge project you talk about moving forward with an anchor shipper to serve Freeport LNG.
Would you happen to know which train this customer is in contract with? Is it the third train? And what's the capacity the customer has taken? Yes it's -- I believe it's the third train Christine.
And the capacity number off the top of my head let's see if I can get it for you which I don't seem to be able to get it.
I think it's around 300 a day.
If that's not right we'll get back to you on it Christine.
Research Division</strong> Just sticking with the Marcellus here.
We have heard about your big projects announcements coming down to the Southeast.
Carolinas and whatnot.
If you think about where the demand growth is coming from power generation seems like kind of an attractive market but you've not been involved.
Is there anything behind that? Just kind of where your assets are? Is it the return to the risk on the projects? Maybe you just -- you plate is full with everything else you got going on? Well I think yes the Southeast the Carolina project I think it's pretty clear that Utilities kind of want to build that themselves in going down that route which is fine and dandy.
Remember we do have a little project called Salem -- Sabal Trail which is $3 billion serving in the Southeast.
So that's obviously a pretty major project and expansions like Kingsport as well.
But we'll look at any opportunity that come along but I think when you look at the map and you look at our footprint we don't go along the Mid-Coast -- the Mid-Atlantic.
So obviously some others do have better advantages in those locations.
You can't have the #1 position everywhere.
But if we see competitive opportunities and the returns are favorable we're going to go after that stuff.
So it's not an ability to absorb more.
We did look at that Carolina project Ted as you know but we weren't able to secure that win given the project at [indiscernible] that we were looking at.
Research Division</strong> And then you sort of hinted here I think pretty strongly at maybe doing some greenfield all over the Gulf Coast I think is the way I'm reading what you're seeing.
Can you just give us a sense of a ballpark what kind of tariff you would need to get the return you would want to get to get the Marcellus gas all the way down for all this growing LNG? I think what I would tell you Ted is we're obviously going to be seeking our typical kind of a 10%-type unlevered IRR returns is what we'd look at.
I don't think we want to get into tariffs at this point in time.
Obviously there's going to be a competitive situation when it does develop which I think as I mentioned is probably a post-2017 opportunity.
Research Division</strong> But we can assume it's a pretty significant amount of greenfield for you in other words? Yes I think it is for anybody.
I don't think there's -- there's a reason why that hasn't been done yet right? There's a lot of the capacity that we're selling now and utilizing and the shorter haul projects as you will are: a very competitive and economic for both the customer and obviously for Texas Eastern and others.
So yes I think that's a fair comment Ted.
And that's why I think it's going to take let's see where Marcellus goes depending on your view and how big Marcellus goes.
And the LNG projects as well a lot of those dynamics are going to drive how big a pipe and when a pipe actually gets done.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then if we can just talk a little about the dividend here and your -- the bump obviously today ahead of expectations I think even at what you guided to.
Are you thinking about at it any differently your presenting DCF a little bit of different way versus I think what we've seen before? Have you talked about some of the dynamics around where your maintenance capital is coming in cash taxes? Is this just -- kind of what's all going into the mix there in terms of how you're thinking about [indiscernible].
I just think it's our growing confidence as we go and secure more projects Ted.
And we're able to secure those projects bring them in service.
I think that increasingly you really see the benefits of our Liquids business the overall Gas business.
And increasingly the smaller impacts of DCP if you will as the rest of the business grows.
So as you know we pay our dividend out of the cash flow the steady cash flow that comes out of the fee base the businesses with contract not volume risk.
And so I think that gave us confidence as we look at things where the dividend could go.
So we had no issues frankly moving it to $0.14 move -- increase it by 10.5%.
Obviously we'll -- as we put our plans together for the next 3 years we'll look at the opportunities there as well and look forward to speaking to the Street about that in early February.
And Ted I'll just add if you look at maintenance CapEx and cash taxes on the maintenance side we're at or below what we've been projecting.
Were still thinking that we'll be pretty much on track for the full year.
It's just kind of the way the maintenance work gets done in the business.
On cash taxes we're a little bit below the estimate that we put out so that's all good.
And I think just recalling the discussions after the first quarter conference call where commodity prices were still strong and our coverage was very high we were outlooking coverage of about 1.4x for now looking at about 1.5.
And like what Greg had indicated earlier was as we -- yes we had a really big drop down last year and we're kind of just getting our sea legs in the first couple of quarters making sure that the way we'd outlook is the way it's folding -- unfolding and it certainly is.
So I think we'd indicated there might be some room to share a little bit more and still hold the coverages where we think they need to be.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> If I could take things to Canada for a minute.
There is obviously a big announcement out of TransCanada talking about signing up $3 billion worth of contracts coming out of Alberta and BC.
And as I think about kind of the macro landscape as well as some of the exciting new completion techniques we've seen out of the Montney.
When I think about the way that the West Coast business is positioned it seems like we've talked a little bit about kind of LNG on the Gulf Coast growing demand.
And obviously there is potential if not in Canada maybe in Oregon or the Pacific Northwest for LNG demand growth as well.
And the BC pipeline that you operate is kind of ideally positioned it would seem to deliver gas from the Montney into those potential Pacific Northwest U.S.
LNG projects.
When we think about kind of what share of opportunities or what share of volume growth the West Coast business should be able to capture both in kind of gathering and processing but also in kind of firm transportation arrangements down to the Vancouver Seattle area do you guys have a way of thinking about that? Or a way that maybe you could help me think about that? And specifically is there an opportunity to potentially expand the BC pipeline to service that prospective demand growth? Yes.
And I think you've framed it up well.
I mean still early days and there's no doubt there's -- I see comments out of Shell and BG.
There's definitely a bit of a slowing in terms of their focus on Western Canada right now but I don't think that's a long-term issue.
I think that's a short-term issue.
So when I think about the projects think -- we kind of split the West Coast pipeline into 2 sectors: a Northern sector and a Southern sector which we call T-South.
I think your bang on.
We're looking at opportunities right now and responding to customers' request to expand the Southern half of that to move gas to as you say into the Vancouver area to the [indiscernible] the Washington State border.
I think if the projects come forward you'll see that.
Remember that we kind of process about 60% of the GNP process about 60% of the gas that gets produced in British Columbia.
So in the Duvernay and the Montney I think there's some liquids opportunities as well which may lead to pipeline opportunities and some other infrastructure that I think we should be well set up.
But specifically T-South so the southern part of West Coast pipeline I think you should look at opportunities there.
They may be a year or so out but that's definitely part of the discussion that's ongoing in Western Canada.
I think the big thing has to be clarified exactly what's going to happen here in the Gulf Coast versus LNG on the West Coast of Canada take a big step forward the BC government has come out with what looks like to be a favorable tax structure at least from some of the comments I've seen from big producers.
I think it's just the issue of some of the challenges of how far from market you are and get in the projects approved that are actually holding up the next phase there Brad.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's great color.
You kind of hit on it a couple of different times during the call but you guys have historically done a great job connecting with LDCs and partnering with LDCs on Texas Eastern.
But when I think about the next 5 to 10 years in North America really the demand growth is overwhelmingly coming from LNG petrochemical industrial and there is obviously LDC and PowerGen growth as well.
But Mexico LNG and petrochems are kind of the really big slugs of demand.
When you think about kind of your relationships with those LNG petrochemical and potentially even Mexican gas importers are those areas where you continue to have discussions? I mean how would you kind of characterize your relationships with the parties who are really going to be driving most of North American demand growth? Because you've obviously done great job getting projects done up in the Northeast and bringing a lot of that gas down to the Gulf Coast.
But when it comes to kind of taking the next step and signing up direct agreements for gas delivery to these facilities or even across the Mexican border should we expect to see those types of projects in the next year or 2? Yes I think.
So look if anything -- we already have a strong relationship.
It's -- as you point out look that the -- that's why you got a pipeline system that goes from supply push to demand pull as you know and then there's a balance in between.
A few years ago all the projects were supply push.
As you rightly pointed out a number of projects today are demand pull but I think back.
When I think about the customers that we serve whether it's BP as the major customer; Chevron a major customer; the Shell guys all that works out extremely well obviously our joint venture at DCP with Phillips 66 one of the biggest players in that regard.
When I think about the people that run companies like Tesoro folks that we know well.
I like our relationships on all of those fronts a; b the expansion into the crude oil business has given us even more confidence with that group of people so we feel good from that perspective.
With respect particularly to Mexico I think it's fair to say that you would see us do joint ventures there whether it's with intrastates another interstate or if we actually went into the Mexican side of the border with a partner down there as well.
I think that just makes good common sense.
Play the where your strengths are partnership where you need to have partnerships and do things on your own when you can do that.
So I do think we have a dogmatic approach but I think you're exactly right.
As we look and you start to see projects like STEP start to turn more to the Mexican border you may see us partners with some other folks that are also involved in that area on both sides of the border.
So it seems to me there's probably about $2 billion worth of an opportunity set here over the next several years on both -- on each of the U.S.
and Mexican side of the border.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's really helpful.
The -- I guess that makes a pretty good segue into the crude project.
The -- there's -- obviously you guys have discussed expanding Express-Platte or expanding specifically Platte for some time.
And now you're being a little bit more direct talking about an expansion in the Bakken.
We've seen over the last year or so quite a large plate of projects proposed to either move crude out of the Wartenberg or the Bakken.
We've seen let's say even some of the biggest players in the midstream space like Enterprise basically see those efforts fail.
And we've seen 1 or 2 big projects go through but even then only by giving large portions of the economics away to anchor shippers.
It seems like a very crowded market and I guess I was wondering if you could provide some color on was it producers that are asking for your participation in that market? Or do you feel like you have sufficiently differentiated economic propositions that you could maybe make something go ahead when we've seen a handful of others fail and then there's plenty of projects are there that obviously are kind of in open season purgatory so to speak? Right.
And as you know Brad I mean we haven't moved anything to execution on that front.
But on the Platte pipeline look Platte has been consistently apportioned for 9 years.
Meaning that basically the shippers don't have the capacity they would like and they have told us they need more capacity on the route from Guernsey to Patoka.
And it's increasing production from the DJ and the Powder River basins as well as those new pipelines you mentioned from the Bakken converging on Guernsey.
We think there's a real need to move light sweet crude from Guernsey to market and a handful of parties actually a large handful as you pointed out have proposed pipeline secured crude from the Rockies to Cushing.
We believe that a stronger course can -- case can be made for taking that crude further east to market rather than just flooding Cushing.
And we think that capacity has that opportunity to go further east.
And arguably you could take it further east or you could take it down to the Gulf via barges et cetera so a slightly different proposition.
And then last thing I would say you're right many people have proposed projects.
As you may recall we blocked the Express pipeline project for exactly that reason.
Many people proposed many projects and you know the most infamous one of all and have not been able to get them done.
The people that have been able to do well have been people with assets already in the ground and finding ways to do that.
The same way we've strategically been able to do that on the gas side.
I expect we'll find a way to do that on the oil side.
And I've already seen that with some small brownfield work on Express.
We talked a little bit about some capacity debottlenecking that will go up for an open season here at the end of this year early next year that allows us to bring in call it $150 million or so of expansion on Express and get that up closer to nameplate.
That stuff is all driven by the customers wanting to do that and our ability to already have an asset in the ground.
We're an early player on that front.
There's no doubt about it.
There are some bigger players but I like our position in that regard and we're going to keep pushing forward with that.
And what I'll guarantee for you is we can't get the commitments to take on those projects so the returns that allow us to keep growing our dividends and distributions we won't do them.
You mentioned in the press release that you had an impact from the lower Canadian dollar in the quarter.
I was curious if you guys are comfortable with your Canadian dollar exposure for 2015? And I guess is that something that you're thinking about hedging? Yes.
The nice benefit we have in -- and I think the impact was a single digit it was pretty small.
And that's because -- remember Canadian assets are financed with about 65% debt up there so you have a natural hedge.
So while interest rates -- while the dollar goes the Canadian dollar declines so as our interest exposure in Canada.
And the earnings go down as well but vice versa.
So 65% of it is naturally hedged.
And given that it's a pretty significant and persistent change in the Canadian to dollar to have any huge impact yes I wouldn't expect to see us hedging that for -- definitely for cash flow purposes.
That doesn't make a whole lot of sense from our perspective.
So again that natural hedge and the growth of the over portfolio it's a small dollars.
I think that was probably in a $4 million range.
You -- exactly Greg.
The EBITDA impact was $12 million but at the net income line it was only $4 million.
It was actually slightly positive in the second quarter.
First quarter was where we saw a more significant impact because of the rise in propane prices but to Greg's point it is largely hedged and you just don't see the impact in distributable cash like you do on EBITDA.
Okay.
I appreciate the color.
And I guess as a follow-up when thinking about the weak Canadian dollar along with the recent constructed BC LNG tax does this in any way make you more interested in bolstering your Canadian presence? Do you see opportunities to maybe acquire or even build as a result? Well definitely on a building side I think the -- well I think Western Canada is in a bit of a slowdown according to all the producers that have had earnings calls from that perspective.
I think long term the supply there I think in the -- if you look in the Horn River and the Montney they're up there with any of the largest plays in the U.S.
So the supply is definitely there.
The long-term build opportunities are there.
As well as I mentioned billion dollars plus of opportunities at Union Gas which as you know is a distribution company utility.
But importantly it's got a 5 Bcf a day pipeline through the middle of it which we own.
And that's really where we see the opportunity.
So I think we'd continue to build into Canada.
Obviously the returns are a little bit lower there but I would say the risks are a little bit lower there as well.
And the opportunity above -- to earn above the regulated rate of return.
I think importantly there's a great connection between at least the Eastern Canadian assets and our U.S.
assets and you see that increasingly through projects like NEXUS where in fact you can augment the assets on both sides of the border for the benefit of customers.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit more about the change in the payout methodology from DCP? And maybe quantify maybe looking at the past year the delta what it would mean? Yes.
Well maybe -- Pat'll speak to that.
But as -- just for everybody it's not as we used to be in net income.
But basically as a response to investors we wanted to show kind of what the distributable cash flow was.
And importantly and I think from evaluation perspective the increase substantial increase in GP and LP cash flows that we see as part of that DCF I think it makes up about a third of the distributions to the parent now versus 20% just a year ago but Pat I don't know.
Any other...
Well Becca that's a good question.
But interestingly we did a backcast for 5 years and a forward look for 3 years.
And whether we use the old formula of 90% of net income or the new approach with the coverage of say 1 1 on cash flow you could see a difference in any 1 year.
But over time they were right on top of each other which I guess wouldn't be surprising.
So it's really not so much about trying to change the amount of cash distribution.
That's really more about aligning how we communicate all the way up the chain.
So distributions from our MLPs to the parent distributions from parent to parent in the form of dividend.
It's all synched up now based on coverage in distributable cash flow.
But there's really no net change in dollars received.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then on the announcement of adding the additional storage on Express in order to expand the capacity how much does it expand capacity volume in the system? I think it's a couple of -- if you -- the current one is pretty small but the one we talked about the $150 million by '16.
I think in terms of tankage it's around -- about 24 000 barrels.
Is that the question you're asking? Or you're talking about...
Research Division</strong> No.
In terms of -- it sounds like it adds -- enables you to add capacity on the systems...
Oh I'm sorry.
Yes.
Got it.
Sorry Becca.
Yes so we go from about using about 89% of nameplate to getting close to about 98% of nameplate on Express.
Research Division</strong> And then just with the change in the Senate following yesterday's election and maybe a little more likelihood that Keystone might get approved.
Does it change your view on potentially 20 [ph] the systems? No it really doesn't.
I mean I think quite different customers.
Remember all the way along Express which is what the really heavy crude which is like what you've seen in XL.
You have several -- a lot of refiners there that need access to those supplies and we'll continue to need access to those supplies.
And my understanding of the dynamics whether XL goes 4 or the Trans Mountain goes 4 et cetera the Canadian producers continue to look for outlets given the production there so that's one.
And then along Platte a lot of the Platte expansion that we're talking about is associated with as I mentioned earlier call it Bakken and Rockies production in that light sweet crude.
So we don't really see that having a major impact.
Then I go back to obviously -- we're not going to build anything unless we've got a long-term contract associated with it.
Inc.</strong> Taking off on Brad's questioning around the Bakken crude takeaway expansion.
Do you see falling oil prices hurting producer interest due to potential reduced activity? Or increasing interest due to the need to reduce costs relative to rail takeaway in a more efficient market? You know what Craig I think it's a little early to tell.
We're talking about 3 or 4 weeks really of dramatic moves in the price of crude.
There's no doubt you still have significant differentials.
I'm sure you've seen in the paper today the desire of people to ship very light crudes offshore in the United States without even government approval.
Does that make them more interested here? I think it's too early to tell.
I think if projects -- there's no doubt that I think producers are going to pause and think about what are the dynamics going forward.
But I think it would probably take 6 or 8 months of consistent lower prices whatever you want to define that as before people start really pulling back from looking at these projects.
But I think it does mean over that 6-month period as people pause and think signing up a long-term contract is going to be a little bit tough for major projects.
And so I think things like the debottlenecking around Express for '16 relatively modest expansions with economics both for us and producers that kind of stuff again is going to be very positive.
And obviously for players who have assets on the ground and I'd say this both on the gas and oil side and natural gas liquids side the ability to draw huge volumes for brand-new greenfields may be a little tougher than building on existing pipes where you don't need anywhere near the same volume take up and the economics can be -- for both parties still just as good.
Inc.</strong> That's helpful.
And Greg you kind of referred to export opportunities.
It seems like Saudi Arabia is specifically targeting the U.S.
production industry which kind of puts producers in a difficult situation since they're kind of hamstrung by export regulation.
And now with some changes in the U.S.
Senate one wonders if there might be some shifts there.
How do you see any changes in U.S.
export policy impacting your business up or down? Well obviously the more that there's exports out of the United States that business is desired of the various parties at play to be able to do that.
That's going to lead to further replumbing of the industry and that's the business we're in.
We like to consider ourselves like Fedex or UPS.
We'll pick up your product clean your product store it and deliver to where you want to go.
Ultimately if that means more of it going offshore you're going to need more infrastructure because we already know the demand for natural gas and natural gas products within the United States is drawing infrastructure needs obviously the export would is well.
So I think that's probably going to be play out positively.
I think you see -- I -- let's see what the BHP situation is really saying.
If they got a nod indirectly from the government saying that's fine to do that and as such you'll see if -- or if such projects or will that lead to more of a formal change in policy.
I think time will still have to tell on that front Craig.
But if anything I don't see there'd be fewer exports either of natural gas liquids products or crude or superlight crude I guess better stated it can only get better from that perspective.
And I think that can only be a positive for the overall infrastructure industry but Spectra Energy in particular as well.
Research Division</strong> So just backing up.
I mean so looking at your 2 slides here.
There's 34 different projects you're having to keep track of.
That's quite a lot.
So I thought maybe if you could help us think about where and how much do you think you're ahead of schedule kind of order of magnitude do you think you're ahead of schedule would be helpful.
And then perhaps you could quantify where you think you're a little behind schedule kind of order of magnitude in terms of dollars is kind of what I'm looking for.
Look I think if setting out a target at the beginning of 2013 of $35 billion and you're always going to have projects coming in and out throughout that time period.
We set a target that's basically '13 to '20 so it's a long time frame.
But being $16 billion out of $35 billion in less than the first 24 months of what is a 6- or 7-year goal I think is -- makes us feel very confident.
I think you see that in our dividend acts and other activities.
That being said I think there are a couple of big projects that are end-of-decade projects.
I think LNG-type projects crude oil projects are moved towards the end of the decade which we -- but we feel good that we can get that stuff secured.
So I think we've got the right process to get this stuff signed up.
We've got the right process to get projects executed and I see -- think you see that in the 50 or 60 projects which we've executed over the last 5 or 6 years and the projects even year-to-date.
But the other thing I think that's not included in the number in those projects that you saw would be M&amp;A.
If there's opportunities on that front that could allow you to accelerate this as well.
So I think there's -- well you say 34 projects will add to track that's true.
But I can assure you since a lot more projects than that than we actually are looking at to ensure that we can secure that remaining $19 billion in the $35 billion if you will.
Research Division</strong> So -- I mean as far as securing the rest of it do you feel like you're tracking ahead of plan at this point? I said we're tracking right on schedule to what we would have expected in our less than 2 years into our multi-year goal.
Probably a little ahead on execution and on track with the securing projects.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's really helpful.
And then in terms of the volumes that are now going north to south maybe you could just kind of help us think about how much now in aggregate have you contracted.
And at this point how much more do you feel there is to go? Because there's so many projects out there relative to the growth and demand so maybe you can help us step back and think about that.
Yes.
Well I think we've pretty well contracted about $2.4 billion -- almost $2.5 billion worth of projects.
So -- and to date -- sorry 2.5 Bcf a day of volume has been contracted to move south.
And in-service to date is about 600 of that.
So as we indicated TEAM South came in a little bit earlier than we expected.
TEAM 2014 on time and a little under budget from what we expected.
But the remaining [indiscernible] in Uniontown to Gas City Gulf market Access South and Adair Southwest that makes up that remainder but that's all contracted for.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of how much more you think you're going to get in terms of moving north to south.
Yes.
I don't know if I could put a number out there on that front.
As -- we're probably doing more than we thought we did a year from that -- a year ago.
And I would expect you're going to see more than we expected on this 2 4 year from now.
At some point in time there is -- at some point in time there's a limit as we talked about you'll have to build even bigger projects.
For example one to think about is the STEP project.
I think STEP project expects to move almost another 0.5 Bcf a day potentially.
So let's see if how that project comes in.
Again that's coming from call it Belmont to Corpus so that's another opportunity that I didn't included 2.4.
Actually we lack -- we never seem to lack for a number of opportunities.
That's for sure.
Well listen thank you very much for joining us today.
As a reminder we have Greg in New York tomorrow for a breakfast meeting.
Unfortunately Pat is not going to be able to with us because he has another commitment but both Greg and Pat are going to be at various investor meetings over the next couple of weeks so you'll have an opportunity to hear from both of them going forward.
As always if you have any questions give Roni Cappadonna and I a call.
We are traveling to New York today so if we don't get back to you as quick as we normally would bear with us or leave a message and we'll call you back as quick as possible.
But thanks again for joining us and we hope to see most of you tomorrow in New York.
Thanks so much.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning my name is Keith and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners Quarterly Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions].
Thank you Julie Dill Chief Communications Officer; you may begin your conference.
Thank you Keith and good morning everyone.
My name is Julie Dill.
I'm the Chief Communications Officer for Spectra and really appreciate you joining us today for our review of Spectra Energy's and Spectra Energy Partners' 2014 fourth quarter results and year-end results.
With me today are Greg Ebel CEO of both Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners; and Pat Reddy Chief Financial Officer of both companies.
Pat will go through our results for the quarter and the year and then Greg will wrap things up with some closing thoughts on 2014.
And as always we'll leave plenty of time for your questions related to our 2014 results following Greg's remarks.
Our Safe Harbor statement is contained within our presentation materials and available on our websites.
This disclaimer is important and integral to all of our remarks so I would ask that you refer to it as you review our materials.
Also contained in our presentation materials are non-GAAP measures that we reconcile to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and those reconciliations are also available on our website.
So with that let me turn things over to Pat.
Okay thanks Julie and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
As you saw in our earnings release this morning.
We had a strong finish to 2014 which puts us on a solid footing as we enter 2015.
A robust finish for the year underscores a couple of key points.
First [indiscernible] our ability to manage the various business and market cycles including the current lower commodity cycle that began in the fourth quarter.
Thanks to a diversified portfolio healthy balance sheet and sound business model.
Importantly the success we had last year in executing on our expansion plans securing contracts and safe guarding our credit metrics and financial flexibility provides us with a strong platform to build on and you'll hear more about that when we review our new three-year plan with you tomorrow.
So I'll speak more to the full year shortly but let's start with our fourth quarter results which are shown on Slide 3.
Spectra Energy generated ongoing EBITDA of $180 million compared with $798 million in the prior year's quarter.
On a standalone basis SEP delivered ongoing EBITDA $424 million $72 million higher than in the same period last year.
The key drivers for the positive change in Spectra Energy's EBITDA quarter-over-quarter are increased earnings of $75 million at Spectra Energy Partners compared with last year mainly driven by expansion projects that generated about $30 million primarily on our Texas Eastern System.
Projects like TEAM 2014 and TEAM South which were put into service during the fourth quarter by helping transform Texas Eastern in a bidirectional system and are underpinned by firm long-term fee-based contracts.
Increased earnings at SEP also reflect higher equity earnings due to the continued ramp up of volumes on a Sand Hills and Southern Hills NGL pipelines and higher crude transportation revenues resolving mainly from higher average tariff rates on the Express pipeline.
Our distribution segment reported EBITDA that was $24 million lower than the same period last year due mainly to the effect of weaker Canadian Dollar and lower customer usage as a result of weather that was 6% warmer compared to the prior year quarter.
Moving to our Western Canada business we reported $35 million increase in EBITDA over the prior year quarter.
Segment results were higher due to improved earnings from the Empress processing facility due to largely to non-cash mark-to-market gains associated with the risk management program we implemented early in 2014.
Partially offset by lower NGL sales prices in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Gathering and processing revenues were higher as well but were partially offset by the effect of the weaker Canadian Dollar.
Let me take a moment to talk about Empress which recorded a $143 million EBITDA for the full year significantly exceeding both our 2013 results and our 2014 expectation of $80 million.
This outperformance was a result of non-cash gains related to our risk management program on a cash basis we recognized $83 million as there was a decoupling of cash and EBITDA attributable to the drop in NGL prices in the fourth quarter.
So let me leave you with three key takeaways on Empress.
First the strong non-cash mark-to-market gain for the quarter is a good indication of how hedged we're going into 2015.
Second there will likely be some accounting noise in 2015 as the hedges roll off and commodity prices move and cash will be realized as the contract settled.
Third and the bottom line is we continue to expect Empress to contribute between $30 million and $50 million of cash on a go forward basis and cash of course is what we're focused on.
Moving on let's turn now to Field Services.
Our 50% share of equity earnings was a loss of $18 million for the quarter $90 million less than last year's quarter.
As noted in footnote number two on Slide 3 while Field Services result show up in our EBITDA the number actually represents our share of DCP Midstream's Earnings Before Taxes or EBT.
Just as a note DCP's EBITDA on a standalone basis was $246 million for the quarter.
The decrease at Field Services was primarily attributable to lower NGL and crude oil prices and the increase in non-controlling interest as a result of continued asset drop-downs to DPM.
The decreases were partially offset by incremental earnings associated with expansions.
During the fourth quarters of 2014 and 2013 respectively.
DCP's realized NGL prices averaged $0.68 per gallon versus $0.99.
NYMEX natural gas averaged $4 per MMBtu versus $3.60 per MMBtu and crude oil averaged $73 per barrel versus $97 per barrel.
While DCP saw decline in commodity prices in the quarter.
It's worth noting that the full year average price per NGL's was $0.89 only $0.05 less than our original pricing assumption for 2014 and crude oil averaged $93 a barrel compared with the $95 we originally assumed.
At these price levels DCP standalone EBITDA was almost $1.2 billion for the year.
I'll also note that during the fourth quarter we completed the second step in our three-part drop-down of the Southeast Supply Header System moving it from Spectra Energy Other to the U.S.
Transmission line.
Let's now turn to distributable cash flow and cash contributions for the quarter as shown on Slide 4.
Spectra Energy's DCF for the quarter was $316 million compared with $315 million in last year's quarter.
DCF for the year was $1.46 billion up $168 million from 2013 with strong dividend coverage of 1.6 times well above our 2014 targeted 1.4 times.
You'll note we've included Empress's non-cash items on this slide and you will see that going forward.
Turning to Slide 5 distributable cash flow to SEP was $245 million for the quarter.
As a reminder when dropped the remaining U.S.
Assets into SEP in November 2013.
We recast earnings but not distributable cash flow.
You'll note that interest expense with SEP was down $29 million in the quarter which was due mainly to the restricting of intercompany loan contributed to Spectra Energy Partners as part of the drop-down along with lower average debt balances.
SEP ended the year with DCF of almost $1.1 billion and strong distribution coverage of 1.2 times which was also above our original expectation of 1.1 times.
Moving to Slide 6 Spectra Energy received General Partner and Limited Partner distributions from SEP for the quarter of $47 million and $137 million respectively.
For the full year we received GP distributions and LP distributions of more than $700 million from SEP.
For the quarter DPM paid General Partner and Limited Partner distributions the DCP Midstream of $15 million and $9 million respectively.
For the full year DCP received GP distributions at $52 million and LP distributions of $35 million from DPM.
You'll recall that in the third quarter we began providing DCP's distributable cash flow in our quarterly earnings materials as we had changed the distribution policy from 90% of DCP's net income to maintaining distribution coverage of 1.1 times cash flow.
At a 50% level DCP standalone distributable cash flow was slightly negative for the quarter mainly as a result of lower NGL and crude prices.
For the year Spectra Energy received $237 million of cash distributions for DCP but here's an important point.
This stop-loss effect on Spectra Energy's DCF related to DCP because distribution from the partnership can't drop below zero and while it may seem counterintuitive lower DCP earnings result in lower cash taxes at Spectra Energy.
So there is actually a positive offset in our DCF.
All in all we had a strong fourth quarter and an exceptional year.
Our success story continues to revolve around solid performance by our fee-based businesses and our expansion efforts especially at SEP and the resulting growth and earnings in cash flows.
We are positioned extremely well to continue to deliver value to our shareholders going forward.
Greg's going to highlight our key success for the year but from a financial perspective I'll note that we have excellent cash coverage for our dividend.
For Spectra Energy we ended 2014 with coverage of 1.6 times exceeding our original estimate of 1.4 times.
This additional margin of coverage supports the $0.14 per share increase in our annual dividend that we announced late last year.
Even in the lower commodity environment we're currently experiencing.
Positive credit metrics and investment grade balance sheets at both Spectra Energy and SEP.
Spectra Energy ended the year with a debt-to-cap ratio of 58% identical to a year ago and we exceeded expectations with respect to our 2014 debt-to-EBITDA ratios.
With Spectra Energy ending the year at 4.7 times and SEP at 3.7 times.
Lastly we have a multiple ways to finance our drive to $35 billion.
With SEP as the primary vehicle to fund the majority of growth CapEx that is currently in execution.
One of those options is the ATM program that we had underway at SEP since last year and which we used to raise about $330 million of equity.
We clearly are very pleased with what we accomplished in 2014; I'll look forward to talking with you tomorrow about our outlook for the next three years.
So with that let me turn things over to Greg.
Well thanks very much Pat and good morning to everybody on the line.
As you heard from Pat Spectra Energy delivered impressive results in 2014 which really provides us a great platform to get into 2015.
We're very pleased with our performance for the year and our record of executing on growth opportunities that drive our earnings and cash flows now and well into the future.
A track record shows that we deliver on our promises throughout all market cycles and in 2014 we even surpassed our own expectations.
We beat our 2014 DCF expectation by nearly 19% at Spectra Energy and 14% and SEP.
We beat our dividend and distribution coverage targets for both Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners and ended the year with coverage ratios of 1.6 times and 1.2 times respectively.
We improved our annual dividend growth to $0.14 per share up from our original plan and commitment to investors of $0.12 per share and we continue to increase the quarterly distribution at SEP.
Announcing our 29<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarterly increase just this morning.
An unit holders will be pleased with the fact that we increase quarterly distribution by a $0.01 and a $0.25 per unit; up from $0.01 increase they received in recent quarter.
Our financial results really reflect our ability to reliably execute operate and expand our project and assets.
We placed almost $800 million of projects into service during 2014 project like TEAM South and TEAM 2014 and U.S.
Transmission and our liquids business expanded its Buffalo [ph] storage multi-facilitate deliveries to a new refinery customer.
Western Canada also plays the North Montney project into service which expanded processing capacity in the region under long-term contracts to meet incremental customer needs.
All of these projects exemplify our ability to optimize our existing footprint to provide an earnings growth and meet customer needs.
We secure an additional $3.5 billion in new growth projects supported by firm fee-based contracts projects like our Dawn-Parkway expansions Stratton Ridge Access South Adair Southwest Atlantic Bridge and of course NEXUS.
We received record send outs throughout our system on Texas Eastern Algonquin East Tennessee Platte Union Gas Western Canada and Maritime Systems.
Indicating our customer uses and most importantly value capacity on the day they needed most.
Most importantly as a company we realized our all-time best record for safety.
Responsible development of new projects safe reliable operations strong consistent earnings growth and cash flows premier asset positioning and connectivity that take us where the life are and attract them for liable dividend and distribution increases for investors through at all market cycles although hallmarks of Spectra Energy.
Overall we had a strong finish to 2014 and importantly it provides us with a solid financial and operational platform as we move into 2015.
I want to keep things very brief this morning as our strong results really speak for themselves.
Of course you'll hear plenty from myself and the team tomorrow as we'll speak at length about our 2015 to 2017 plan and our ability to manage through this lower commodity cycle.
Well continuing to meet or exceed the commitments we've already made to investors but for now let's take your questions on the strong Q4 and 2014 year-end results.
Julie? Thank you Greg.
We'd like to hear from you now.
So we'll open the lines for your questions and I'm going to ask you to please restrict your questions to only our fourth quarter and year-end results as we've got plenty of time in the morning to discuss our 2015 outlook in plan.
So Keith if you would please provide instructions on folks can ask questions I'd appreciate it.
Keith? Alright.
[Operator Instructions] your first question comes from the line of Darren Horowitz from Raymond James.
Your line is open.
I appreciate you running through the detail on you know the composition of numbers on the drivers.
I just had one quick question and I know you're going to get into a lot more detail about this tomorrow but in the prepared commentary with discussion around the Express-Platte expansion you had talked about the re-scoping of that Wyoming to Illinois pipeline impossibly incorporating those volumes into the opportunity between the system.
I was just curious within that commentary if that changes either your CapEx are scalable ultimately how large this system could be or if you could just roughly quantify the re-scoping as a result of the recent shipping commodity prices? Well you're right you'll hear a lot about that tomorrow and it doesn't change the ultimate capacity.
I think what you're seeing is and that really doesn't impact our 2015 to 2015 forecast we'll get into tomorrow but the very big projects Darren.
I mean I wouldn't expect that every month commodity prices stay where they are kind of a final decision on those projects moves out by a month if you will but we had expected those projects to kind of get secured towards the latter half of the decade.
I'd still expect that to be the case.
Again if you're going to assume commodity prices stay very low for a long period of time.
I guess you could question that but remember that's not really what those pipes are doing.
What those pipes are doing is taking advantage of the differential.
The existing Western Canada for example and getting those to higher price market.
So you know for Western Canada that just for a simplicity at $50 and $55 you can get it in Wood River Patoka or the Gulf you're still going to try to find a way to capture that Delta.
So I don't think it ultimately changes the size of those projects and I think what we're really discussing is that when those projects move into a final investment decision.
Okay and then just as a quick follow-up and this was actually something that happened throughout the course of the fourth quarter but I'm just curious with the new committed contracts that you had signed on Express there was some commentary that the committed totals [ph] were coming at higher rates and I was curious if you could just quantify the variance? I don't know that I've got that number for you but I can get it for you then.
I think they have inflaters [ph] to them and I think the inflater [ph] was in the 4% range for this year.
Okay that's all I had.
I appreciate catching up in more detail tomorrow.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Danilo Juvane from BMO Capital.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning Danilo.
I just wanted to follow-up on a couple of questions on the quarter.
So at Union Gas can you guys quantify what the weather impact was and how it sort of compared relative to normal expectation? Yes it was little warmer than the year before not way off those around $5 million was the impact on the downside from weather.
Remember as we you'll remember the winter of 2013 2014 Danilo was extremely cold.
So we weren't far off of normal in fact maybe even the slightly.
Though interestingly that we were pretty much at normal we were 6% warmer than the prior year quarter but 7% colder than the prior year for the whole year.
So the distribution during the year was kind of odd.
Okay great.
I appreciate the colour.
Moving on the SEP obviously the fourth quarter was strong because of the expansion project that you sort of mentioned there.
Can we expect the fourth quarter to sort of reflect a similar run rate how should we think about sort of rebasing 2015 I guess based on how this quarter performed? Well Danilo if you let us we'll spell that all out for your tomorrow but I think you're hitting on the right theme.
You know the expansion project is coming in I think you should expect to see the benefits of that playing right through the planned period.
I guess were there any impacts from interruptible transportation as well or was it strictly fee-based volumes.
Well we always get a little bit interruptible but it was not a significant amount.
You know we're talking well under $5 million.
Okay that's it from me.
Thanks guys.
Okay thanks Danilo.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Shere from Tuohy Brothers.
Your line is open.
I just had a quick question on the tax rate.
It seemed what was it 17% versus 23% to prior quarter.
Can you give a little more colour on that? Sure so with respect to the tax rate.
We had as a result of the big drop-down the rightful drop-down a recalibration have stayed income taxes and it has to do with the distribution of income across the different states.
So it was a current tax effect and also revaluation of deferred taxes to take into account the lower STEP to lower in tax rate blended through the states.
So it's really a combination of those two things Craig.
Oh! Okay so this is nothing ongoing in that whole DCP tax issue talked about as is really a parent level DCF issues it's not a net-net statutory rate that you realize? Well with respect to the adjustment for the state tax that was a catch up all in one quarter and it did look back over a couple of years.
So you're right about that that wouldn't affect our ongoing run rate and we will publish our expected cash tax rate for the three years of our plan tomorrow.
But none of that impact is related to DCP.
No it was not.
Okay great.
Thank you very much look forward to tomorrow.
Okay thanks Craig.
Your next question comes from the line of Christine Cho from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
I just want to.
Hi Christine? Hello.
I just wanted to make sure; I understand this correctly at Western Canada.
The non-cash mark-to-market gains are tied to whatever volumes you have hedged going forward.
Correct? That is correct.
Okay and then just theoretically is the market liquid enough to hedged beyond one year or not really? We typically there's two effects here.
One obviously it is very liquid beyond say 12-month to 18-month period so you're right that mark and the positive mark is indicating the positive value the hedges we put in place in 2014.
In 2015 and out into 2016 as well but the vast majority that would be in 2015 Christine.
Partially its liquidity but the [indiscernible] contact structure is work at Empress right? You're bring in stuff in each year and year matching up with the sales and most of contracts that Empress would run in that 12-month to 18-month period.
Okay now if even if back that out I still get that Western Canada looks like it was a beat and it looks like it sounds like it's from gathering and processing.
Revenues being higher so that to me seems to indicate that activity was higher since commodity prices were down.
Can you just talk about like the dynamic that's going on up there? What's encouraging producers to actually increase their activity rather than decrease? Well it's combination see you're right.
It's not necessarily so much an increase in activity but an increase of interruptible.
So you know the amount of throughput we realize on interruptible basis.
So people who are producing gas want to keep producing that gas they're less likely to shut in versus people that going out and spudding [ph] new wells etc.
We had them through the fourth quarter seeing any real run off from an activity perspective.
I think as you won't be surprised Christine you know it takes 4 to 6 months for some of those activity impacts to start kicking in.
so I'll talk about this a bit tomorrow but again you still have largely a fee-based nature of our G&amp;P activities up there.
So there is two elements.
One people wanted to use interruptible as oppose to committing to new projects that maybe others were proposing and two we'd still have fee-based contracts up there for the vast majority of what we do in the G&amp;P side of things being there more like pipeline contracts here in the United States so people still have to pay us.
So the activity impacts are much more spread out from Spectra Energy perspective than what you might see on the E&amp;P side or versus what you might see down here in United States that makes sense? Yes is there a big backlog of work that still need to be connected to infrastructure or not really? No I wouldn't go that far.
I would say it's again more people that are have done work in 2013 and 2014 and maybe are close to completing and still wanting to be able to flow that gas right.
I mean you're not going to close in wells that are already would be that would be far out in the trial of your options closing wells that are already producing but you might not want to sign up for new contracts instead you're going to use existing assets which is exactly our advantage right? We process 6% of the gas in Greatest Columbia so as oppose to working with maybe some smaller players or committing to new plants you'll use interruptible services that places like Spectra Energy to the extent we have capacity available in those areas.
Okay and then last question from me and this is just sort of an accounting question.
When I look at your Spectra Energy Corp DCF table.
The distribution from and consolidated affiliate it looks like it was $107 million for the quarter.
Historically I thought that the bulk of the cash that came from this was from DCP.
Am I incorrect in thinking that way? Well that is high that's why you see it.
That's correct.
So I guess I'm just I saw it given the loss for the quarter at the DCP you wouldn't take a cash distribution from DCP.
Was there? Well two things are the distributions tend to run a quarter lag.
I see okay.
So really what you would have seen pick up in the.
The cash we've received in the fourth quarter was from the third quarter declared distribution.
So the fourth quarter distribution that would have been declared for payment in the first quarter of 2015 we won't be taking.
I see okay.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Dill.
Thank you Keith and again thanks to everybody for joining today.
We really hope to see or hear from your tomorrow when we roll out our 2015 business outlook and our three-year financial plan during our Analyst and Investor meeting.
So again for information on participating in our investor meeting via the phone or the internet.
Please visit the investor section of either spectraenergy.com or spectraenergypartners.com.
As always if you have follow-up questions feel free to give Roni Cappadonna or I a call.
We may not get back to you right away as we are travelling today but we'll circle back with you as soon as we can so thanks again for joining us and we'll see you tomorrow.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Heather and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks we will have a question-and-answer session.
I will now introduce your conference leader Julie Dill Chief Communications Officer.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you Heather and good morning everyone.
I appreciate you joining us today for our review of Spectra Energy's and Spectra Energy Partners 2015 first quarter results.
With me today are Greg Ebel CEO of both Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners Pat Reddy Chief Financial Officer of both companies and Bill Yardley President of our U.S.
Transmission Segment.
You'll hear from both Greg and Pat this morning as they go through our results for the quarter and provide an update on our "Drive to 35." We will of course leave plenty of time for your questions.
And with so many projects in execution and development originating at our U.S.
Transmission business Bill's here to help answer questions you may have on those topics.
Our Safe Harbor statement is contained within our presentation materials and available on our websites.
This disclaimer's important and integral to all of our remarks so I would ask that you refer to it as you review our materials.
Also contained in our presentation materials are non-GAAP measures that we reconcile to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and those reconciliations are also available on our websites.
With that let me turn things over to Greg to make a few opening remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well thanks very much Julie and good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us.
Before Pat speaks to the numbers for the quarter I thought I'd take a little bit of an opportunity to give you my perspectives on the results and give you a quick update on our structuring efforts at DCP Midstream.
So let's start there.
As you recall in February we discussed that we were working with Phillips 66 to overcome the short-term challenges at DCP caused by the rapid drop in commodity prices and that we were also working to ensure that over the long term DCP and DPM were set up in a matter that provides the best opportunity for us to realize their full value.
While there's still work to be completed I'm pleased to report that we've make good progress on both fronts during this quarter.
To address its short-term needs DCP Midstream worked with its bank group to amend its bank revolver and DCP has also taken action to reduce corporate costs and its capital budget.
And of course we continue to work on a longer-term structural solution.
As we drive to the right solution let me reiterate our structuring objectives.
First we are working to ensure that the entire DCP complex is structured to achieve an optimal balance of fee-based bank commodity expose contracts.
Second we expect to establish a foundation of sustainable cash flows and distribution for our public unit holders while retaining the upside that will occur when commodity prices ultimately recover for the sponsors Phillips 66 and ourselves.
And third we will ensure that any ultimate structuring still allows the DCP complex to retain and grow its number one position in NGL in production and gas processing and that it positions DCP to efficiently finance that growth.
So work continues on this front and we expect to have a solution to share with you in the coming months.
Moving to our first quarter at Spectra Energy we delivered a strong start to the year.
We exceeded our plan expectations for the quarter even overcoming a lower-than-anticipated commodity environment and a weaker Canadian dollar.
The quarter I think was a good example of the stability and sustainability of our overall earnings and cash generation.
Our base businesses continue to perform very well and we achieved record deliveries this past winter on our major pipeline systems Texas Eastern Algonquin Union's Dawn-Parkway System and T-South in Western Canada.
That kind of utilization bodes well for future contract renewals and demonstrates the ongoing need for additional pipeline infrastructure that we will build for our customers growing demands.
And with the strength of our U.S.
Transmission and Liquids business SEP continues to roll along delivering solid results in its own right as it brings new expansion projects into service.
As you know SEP's fee-based earnings have virtually no volume or commodity exposure a unique and attractive benefit for SEP unitholders and Spectra Energy shareholders in these times.
Thanks to a colder-than-normal winter Union Gas beat its own expectations for the quarter.
This occurred despite the lower Canadian dollar.
Western Canada continues to perform well in both a tough gas drilling and currency environment.
And DCP's earnings were in line with its first quarter plans as it did a good job of overcoming lower-than-anticipated commodity prices.
The DCP management team has done an excellent job of proactively managing through the current environment by reducing costs and enhancing operating efficiencies to ensure they meet their expectations.
Very importantly we are also ahead of expectations from a cash generation perspective.
This again underlines the strength of Spectra Energy's portfolio of businesses and our ability to consistently generate strong cash flows in various market cycles.
It also reinforces my own confidence in our ability to deliver annual dividend growth of $0.14 per share while maintaining coverage at or above one times.
So I'll be back shortly to talk about the excellent progress we're making on our "Drive to 35." But for now I'll turn things over to Pat to talk about the detailed financial results for the first quarter compared to last year.
Pat? Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
As you've seen from our earning release we delivered solid first quarter results with ongoing EBITDA of $788 million at Spectra Energy and $445 million at Spectra Energy Partners.
As expected Spectra Energy's EBITDA was down quarter-over-quarter due primarily to the significant drop in commodity prices combined with a weaker Canadian dollar.
And while we experienced another cold winter weather was generally comparable across both periods.
SEP's ongoing EBITDA was up almost 8% over last year's first quarter reflecting increased earnings from expansion projects and helped by virtually no exposure to commodity price or volume fluctuations.
So I would draw your attention to the bottom of slide four as we take a look at the drivers of EBITDA results by segment.
I'll start with Spectra Energy Partners which is comprised of our U.S.
Transmission and Liquids businesses.
U.S.
Transmission's ongoing EBITDA $398 million was $24 million higher than in the first quarter of 2014.
This quarter's results primarily reflect increased earnings from two expansion projects we placed into service last year TEAM 2014 and TEAM South as well as the Kingsport project that commenced service earlier this year.
2015 results excluded a $9 million special item related to an impairment of Ozark Gas Gathering assets.
Our Liquids business reported first quarter EBITDA of $64 million compared with $58 million in 2014.
The increase was primarily driven by a higher equity earnings from the Sand Hills natural gas liquids pipeline reflecting increased volumes year-over-year.
The Express and Platte crude pipelines also continued to deliver strong results in the quarter which were in line with our expectations.
Distribution reported first quarter EBITDA of $192 million compared with $226 million in 2014.
The decrease quarter-over-quarter was due mainly to the decline in the value of the Canadian dollar which was 13% weaker this quarter.
Also first quarter 2014 results included regulatory decisions from the Ontario Energy Board that in the aggregate provided a $10 million benefit to the segment's 2014 results.
Without those items Distribution's EBITDA was in line with last year.
So the base business continues to be strong.
Western Canada Transmission &amp; Processing reported EBITDA for the quarter of $161 million compared with $237 million in 2014.
As expected earnings were lower at Empress reflecting weaker commodity prices primarily for propane which was about 70% below 2014's price levels.
Furthermore we recorded a noncash mark-to-market commodity related pricing adjustment of negative $22 million.
But as we discussed last quarter with the implementation of a risk management program at Empress we are focused on stabilizing cash flows.
We said we expect Empress to generate approximately $30 million of cash for the year and we are on track to achieve that result.
Western Canada's earnings were also lower due to the weaker Canadian dollar.
But as a reminder while this change in the currency brought with it a headwind that reduced EBITDA by a combined $43 million in our two Canadian business segments we are partially hedged on a net income basis.
The FX effect on net income was $20 million in the first quarter of this year for our Canadian businesses.
Moving to DCP our 50% share of DCP's ongoing earnings was a negative $14 million in the quarter which was $144 million less than in 2014.
As expected the decrease is primarily due to significantly lower commodity prices and a decrease in equity gains associated with the issuance of partnership units by DCP Midstream Partners.
These decreases were partially offset by earnings from expansions improved operating efficiencies and cost savings from various initiatives.
While we would certainly prefer a stronger commodity environment DCP has done a great job of controlling what they can and meeting the business budget goals in an environment where commodity prices are down 50% from last year's levels.
DCP's 2015 ongoing results exclude a special item of $3 million per our share of costs related to organizational changes that were recognized during the quarter.
Additional costs related to these changes will be incurred through the remainder of this year.
So in total Spectra Energy's EBITDA was down quarter-over-quarter as expected.
Importantly however despite both commodity prices and currency being weaker than we had forecast these results exceeded our expectations for the 2015 quarter.
The same holds true for our distributable cash flow.
So let's take a look our DCF schedules beginning with SEP.
SEP's standalone distributable cash flow for the quarter was $354 million $30 million more than the same quarter last year with distribution coverage of 1.5 times.
This higher DCF was directly attributable to EBITDA generated by U.S.
Transmission from expansion projects and higher volumes at Sand Hills pipeline in the Liquids business.
For the full year we expect SEP's coverage to be 1.1 times in line with our 2015 forecast.
We remain confident in our ability to increase our quarterly distributions by a $0.0125 per unit while maintaining our distribution coverage at or above one times.
SEP paid general partner and limited partner distributions to Spectra Energy for the quarter of $52 million and $142 million respectively.
Let's now turn to Spectra Energy's distributable cash flow.
At SE distributable cash flow was $578 million for the quarter compared with $631 million in last year's quarter.
Coverage was a very strong 2.3 times and DCF per share was $0.86.
Now just as a reminder with some seasonality in our cash flows our coverage will be lower in the second and third quarters but as we laid out in February we continue to expect coverage to be 1.2 times on a full year basis.
While our EBITDA was down period-to-period so were our cash taxes.
We received a higher tax refund in the first quarter of 2015 due to the approval of bonus depreciation laid in 2014 and our interest expense was lower compared to last year mainly due to the weaker Canadian dollar as well as lower average long-term debt balances.
As you would expect given the level of growth for pursuing and achieving we've been busy on the financing front.
We closed out our $400 million ATM continuous equity offering at SEP and initiated a new $500 million offering which we expect to utilize throughout the year.
Also in the first quarter SEP successfully completed a $1 billion debt issuance at attractive rates in furtherance of our efforts to efficiently fund our growth investments.
Total available liquidity across the entire Spectra Energy enterprise was $3.5 billion as of March 31.
So while we know it's early in the year we're feeling very good about how the businesses continue to perform.
Despite commodity prices and the Canadian dollar being weaker than we had anticipated when we put our budgets together we are ahead of where we thought we would be at this time in terms of both EBITDA and distributable cash flow and these are both positive indicators of a strong year ahead.
We are pleased with how we started the year and expect to continue to deliver on the commitments we made for the balance of the year.
So with that let me turn things back to Greg to talk about our growth opportunities and the progress we're making on our "Drive to 35." President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks very much Pat.
As you've just heard Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners first quarter results really benefited from new assets we put in the ground last year.
And this ability to consistently deliver our projects into service as planned allows us to take advantage of opportunities to grow reach new markets and enhance our pipeline systems.
So let's take a look at how we're doing on that front.
We have several projects scheduled to go into service this year so let me begin with those.
At U.S.
Transmission two projects OPEN and Uniontown to Gas City are under construction and scheduled to commence service in the fourth quarter.
The OPEN project will bring incremental Marcellus and Utica supply to southern markets and the Uniontown to Gas City project will deliver gas to the Midwest.
Together these two projects along with TEAM 2014 and TEAM South which you'll recall we brought into service last year represent about 2/3 of the 2.4 Bcf a day in projects that will fully transform Texas Eastern to a bidirectional system by 2017.
At our Liquids segment we are constructing the Red Lake project to expand the reach of Sand Hills to access growing Permian base and production.
The project is scheduled to go into service during the second quarter.
We're also on track with the construction of our 2015 Dawn-Parkway project which is the first of several expansion we're advancing along the Dawn-Parkway path at Union Gas.
This project is scheduled to go into service during the fourth quarter of this year.
In February and DCP put its Keathley Canyon Connector gathering line in the Gulf of Mexico into service.
This project is part of the Discovery joint venture which is a jointly owned operation between DCP Midstream Partners and Williams Partners.
And DCP has a couple of other projects including the Lucerne II and Zia II plants which are scheduled to be put into service later this year as well.
All total by this year end we have brought in or will have brought in excess of $2 billion of projects into service adding additional earnings and cash flow growth in 2016 and beyond.
Other projects we have in execution are also proceeding very well.
At SEP we continue making progress on our NEXUS project and anticipate filing a formal FERC application later this year.
We completed a subsequent open season for the project adding upstream capacity on Texas Eastern for up to 950 million cubic feet per day and creating a direct path from Marcellus and Utica supply to reach NEXUS markets.
During the quarter the AIM project in New England received its FERC certificate and will begin construction shortly.
The project is 100% subscribed by New England's major local distribution companies and is on track for an in-service date in the second half of 2016.
The Atlantic Bridge project continues to move forward and we will file its formal FERC application later this year.
The FERC approval process is the last step before building the project which is a final scope of approximately 150 million cubic feet per day and a capital cost of about $650 million.
This project scope will ensure we meet the needs of the LDC and industrial customers who require our service in 2017.
Our Gulf markets East Tennessee Loudon and Sabal Trail projects are all on track for their respected in the service dates.
And you may have seen that that Duke Energy announced it is taking a 7.5% investment interest in Sabal Trail joining Spectra Energy and NextEra's project owners as expected.
We continue to be on track to secure regulatory approvals on this project by early 2016 and meet our 2017 in the service date.
On another front just last week we received regulatory approval from the Ontario Energy Board for the 2016 Dawn-Parkway Project.
So that project remains nicely on track as well.
And work continues on the two new projects in Western Canada to expand our BC Pipeline.
Jackfish Lake is a supply push project and the Reliability and Maintainability project or the RAM project is a demand pull project.
Both of these pipeline expansions are on track to be in service in 2017.
Importantly during the quarter we moved a new project the Express Enhancement into execution.
This $135 million project is underpinned by long-term fee-based contracts and will maximize the system throughput on our Express Pipeline through the addition of on-system terminaling and storage assets.
The Express Enhancement project is expected to go into service in 2016.
So we have an impressive slate of projects in execution projects that will deliver the earnings and cash flow we laid out in our three-year plan.
But we're looking well beyond the three-year horizon of course and we have a healthy backlog of projects and opportunities that lead to continued growth and value creation.
And we're working diligently to move those projects forward.
With more than $7.5 billion in service since 2013 and more than $9 billion of expansion projects in execution we remain confident in our ability to deliver on our pledge to secure $35 billion of expansion projects through the end of the decade.
Let's take a look at some of our projects that are in development.
I'll begin with our Access Northeast project at SEP.
While AIM and Atlantic Bridge have primarily been contracted by LDCs Access Northeast will mainly serve the electric power market.
As many of you know Access Northeast will improve electric reliability in New England by helping supply the vast majority of the region's most efficient gas-fired generation.
The project will expand our Algonquin and Maritimes and Northeast systems and utilize their existing footprints.
We're developing the project with Eversource and National Grid who give us a strong competitive advantage and valued insight as together they serve 4.8 million of the 6.5 million electric customers in the region.
The open season for Access Northeast ended on May 1 and we're moving to finalize and sign binding contracts with customers.
Not surprisingly we expect that Eversource and National Grid will be key customers and we'll contract for a significant portion of the project's capacity.
We anticipate moving Access Northeast into execution later this year.
As mentioned earlier our Northeast pipeline set new delivery records this past winter a sure sign that additional infrastructure is needed.
We believe that the region's policymakers understand that New England needs more low-cost gas to ensure reliability wintertime price stability and the region's competitiveness as evidenced by the recent New England Governor's Summit Meeting on Energy.
In addition to the Access Northeast project we've already conducted several open seasons this year to projects that would further connect Marcellus and Utica supply to demand markets.
Texas Eastern's proposed Lebanon Extension project will provide shippers with the opportunity to obtain firm transportation service to deliver new natural gas supplies to markets in the Midwest U.S.
We concluded our open season for the project in late March and we're targeting a project of about 100 million cubic feet per day and we expect this project to go into service during the second half of 2017.
Our open season for the Marcellus to Market expansion of Texas Eastern closed April 10 and results indicate strong interest from shippers for firm transportation that will deliver new incremental production to markets in the Northeast.
The target in-service date for the Marcellus to Market project is the second half of 2017.
Our proposed Greater Philadelphia Expansion project extends our Texas Eastern system to provide shippers with firm transportation to delivery points along or near the existing Philadelphia Lateral.
The project's open season closes this week so we will be analyzing the market interest and could be targeting an expansion in the region as early as the second half of 2018.
These three Appalachian expansion projects represent an incremental growth CapEx opportunity of $750 million to a $1.5 billion over and above what we already have in execution.
At Union Gas our 2017 Dawn-Parkway project recently completed its open season and received strong customer support.
Commercial contracts are being finalized and we expect to file this project with the OEB mid-year at which point we will also move it into execution.
And we continue to see demand growth in Ontario so we're exploring the possibility of further expansion of the Dawn-Parkway system in 2018.
Today you'll see in Western Canada that we're announcing a binding open season on our T-North pipeline system in Northeast BC.
This is a supply push project and is driven by Spectra Energy's ability to add timely capacity at competitive rates to serve this important region of Western Canada.
And finally work continues on the Westcoast Connector project in Western Canada which is well-positioned with its approved corridor for two pipelines.
It's important to note that the Westcoast Connector is the only project with an approved multi-pipe corridor in British Columbia.
Given the current low global LNG pricing environment we believe that this unique position provides attractive cost synergies for any future BC LNG investments.
So we're off to a good start for the year and we know our investors expect nothing less from us given our significant fee-based business model.
Spectra Energy has demonstrated its ability to succeed in the midst of various business cycles.
We've got a superior asset footprint that connects us not only to premium supply basins but also to growing demand markets a great portfolio of high-performing fee-based businesses and a powerful platform for ongoing expansion.
As indicated when we rolled out our plan in February we have virtually no volume or commodity exposure at SEP and at Spectra Energy our incremental commodity exposure as it affects our DCF is extremely limited as well.
Both of these advantages are reflected in our first quarter results which exceeded our expectations despite lower-than-anticipated pricing.
Our outlook for capital expansion continues to be very positive.
We have already contractually secured a significant portion of our "Drive to 35." Lastly and most importantly our solid base businesses plus the growth we've already secured support our commitment to grow our dividend by $0.14 per share annually with coverage at or above one times.
So thanks very much for joining us.
And I'll turn things over to Julie so we can take your questions.
Thanks Greg.
And now we're happy to take your questions.
So Heather if you would please provide instructions on how folks can ask those questions.
Your first question from the line of Jennifer Hills with UBS.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
I'm pulling in for Shneur Gershuni.
I had a question about the Northeast project.
We understand that Kinder is getting traction.
But based on your comments it sounds like there's no risk of any delays to your project in the area.
Can you talk about that a little bit? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Well obviously I can't speak to Kinder directly.
But obviously I can tell about what we think we're able to achieve.
And fortunately Bill's here who's very much in charge of handling.
Bill do you want to address that? Yes these overall delays I mean -- I don't  we really not  One thing we pride ourselves on is our ability to get these projects done along our existing footprint in the Northeast.
It's one of the of the things we've done whether it's through expanding Texas Eastern to the east with the six or seven projects we've done over the last several years or expanding up into New England with AIM the Atlantic Bridge and Access Northeast is really much the same.
So we're still on track for 2018 to get some or all the projects in service and meet the electric needs.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think the really key thing is again what we see as a real competitive advantage i the fact that you've got closed to five million out of the 6.5 million customers on the electric side represented by Eversource and Grid we think is a powerful indication of the need for our project and the commercial acceptability of our project as well.
Okay.
And just one other question.
On maintenance CapEx in DCF for Spectra Energy it was a lot lower than we had anticipated if you look at the guidance for the year.
Is there certain timing that you're expecting with that? Is it back-end loaded? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think there's two things.
I think there's some timing.
We don't straight-line that.
Much of the work on the maintenance is typically done in other quarters.
But also impacting that would be the Canadian dollar.
So much of our maintenance capital is done in Canada so that would also have an impact as well.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
That's all I had.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Darren Horowitz with Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Darren.
Inc.</span></strong> A couple quick questions.
The first going back to the Marcellus and Utica supply to demand market context that you guys detailed if you look at what you're doing with that Lebanon expansion and the Marcellus to market expansion on Texas Eastern and then of course in Philadelphia.
Obviously there's some variability in terms of CapEx spend.
I'm just wondering outside of the 100 million cubic foot a day that you detailed that the Lebanon project could represent what do you think the scale and scope of those expansions ultimately would be? And from a time to market perspective just based on the competitive landscape and certainly the oversupply in the area do you think that there's any opportunity for maybe those to get the green light added to backlog quicker and from a net present value basis just be more of a benefit for future organic growth to come? Yeah so it's Bill Yardley.
I think I got most of those questions.
So in terms of the scale and the scope of the projects that we have on origination now there is a fair amount of variability.
Philly is probably the biggest variable.
We've identified a really good lift and relay project down the Philly lateral that that's probably an area that's next in line in our system as the most constrained beyond New York which of course we solved a couple years ago and New England which we are well on the way to solving with these three projects AIM Atlantic Bridge and Access Northeast.
Philly is probably the next biggest constrained area but we probably have a project that's in the $1 billion range maybe 0.5 Bcf a day to the Philly load and we'll see what the season brings on May 8.
To your question on getting things in service quicker I think we all know the regulatory process and the permitting process isn't getting any easier as time goes on nor is it any easier as you head north and east in the U.S.
So difficult to see where we can get things in quicker but I do think we have realistic timelines on these projects.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Darren.
Also those projects really underline the fact that a lot of this really isn't Greenfield.
And one of the real advantages as we've often said is being one of the lifeguards and Bill's projects and the work his guys are doing really accentuate that.
So some of the projects might be relatively small CapEx but very powerful obviously for our customers.
And then some other projects like the Philly Lateral would be significant builds.
But you got it right.
It's a tough area.
Inc.</span></strong> Well I think it makes the world of sense and Bill I'd love your opinion.
But it seems like especially when you talk about Access Northeast leveraging your footprint with Algonquin M&amp;N I think is a significant advantage correct me if I'm wrong that you would have with regard to some of the other competing pipes.
And certainly from a regulatory perspective.
Is that the right way to think about it? Yeah.
It certainly is.
And really without talking about competitors we've looked at Greenfield in the area.
And the fact is this is a peak problem number one.
So you don't want to overbuild the summer.
And then number two you got to take advantage of whatever resources you have there both from a stakeholder outreach perspective from a timing perspective and right size the development to meet the market needs and get solid returns.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I appreciate it.
If I could just also switch real quickly just to Express-Platte.
Outside of the $135 million project that you talked about from an on-system enhancement perspective any update regarding your pursuit of twinning the system or just the ability especially with where differentials are today the ability to move like you've mentioned Canadian Rockies Bakken Crude to the Midwest maybe rescoping the Wyoming line? It just seems like the economic incentive is only going to get greater I think as we deal with supply demand and balances and it would seem like that would be more in the forefront.
Right.
Well definitely the team is working on those.
As you know the challenge call it we've had recent oil at $60 but typically in the first quarter closer to $50.
Even with the differential I think that you still have a number of producers Darren reeling from uncertainty.
And some of those projects they start to get pretty sizable from a CapEx perspective particularly on the twinning side and would take decade plus commitments.
And I think producers have just been very hesitant to do that.
That being said I think you'll see us continue to push enhancement-type projects as well as the major projects.
I think the issue is not if it's just when.
So from a timing perspective obviously if you do a twinning that has much different regulatory implications than if you're just doing enhancements to basically get up to the existing capacity.
But we're looking to work with other partners.
We're looking to do enhancements and even Greenfield if necessary to meet the customer needs.
But I think the type of projects you see like the Enhancement where you had 25 000 barrels or 30 000 barrels a day is much more in line with what producers are willing to sign up today.
So every month we see an increase in the price of oil I think the likelihood of those projects coming back fully on the radar screen and we believe that'll definitely allow us to secure those big projects before the end of the decade.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I appreciate it.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Darren.
Your next question comes from the line of Brandon Blossman with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Your line is open.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Brandon.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Couple of quick questions.
One on the incremental Marcellus to the (33:52) projects that are under development.
Would you characterize those as far as supply push demand pull customer base? Yeah.
So on the Lebanon project it would be supplier push.
Marcellus to market mostly supplier push.
And then Philly is likely to be a combination.
The Philly area really has a number of customers that are trying to figure out how to get more energy into that area.
And so I would bet on a fair amount of demand pull there.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And then moving to a different part of the continent.
Western Canadian propane less than $0.10 a gallon.
Are there any opportunities for near-term incremental infrastructure to relieve that supply problem? Well I think it's less of a  no.
We have not seen a big desire again.
In some respects kind of like the oil side people are waiting to see what the long-term price signals are so that continues to be a challenge.
There is some activity on the rail side as you probably know.
But you pointed out a good fact on the supplies sure aren't going down in terms of the volumes of gas.
In fact it's probably surprising to a lot of people.
April saw Western Canada produce 15 BOEs a day which is the highest production rate in a decade or eight to ten years.
So we'll look at those.
I think again the issue is at those prices as you can imagine folks like ourselves the margins are extremely small hence our likelihood of earning more like $30 million in cash as opposed to what we've seen in some of the other years.
So opportunity there.
I think the price signals suggest that people probably don't want to commit for those long term.
But again just like on the oil side I think it's a matter of matter of if not when  I'm sorry of when not if.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Fair enough.
Thank you.
That's all for me.
Thanks Brandon.
Your next question comes from the line of John Edwards with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Good morning everybody and nice quarter.
Greg could you just talk a little bit further on the Access Northeast? I mean is there a way you can quantify I guess the competitive advantage you think you might have with Eversource and National Grid and because obviously you've got the competing proposal out there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think I'll start and then Bill can add to that.
I think the number one competitive advantage is the one you just pointed to with Eversource and Grid.
As we've been talking about a little bit on this call John is that how difficult it is to place assets into service.
We take great pride on the fact we've been in those areas for a half a century or so.
But the Eversource and Grid folks have been there even longer and this is a ground game.
And being able to understand the needs how to use existing assets to maximize capabilities and yet minimize new infrastructure is a real advantage to have those folks along.
And then of course we would expect them to help support the pipeline through contracts as well.
And ultimately there needs to be beyond the FERC approvals there needs to be state approvals on some of this and they obviously have probably the best insight on it from that perspective.
So volume in terms of 4.8 million versus 6.5 million on the ground existing assets working as partnership regulatory and our ability to put pipes in the ground all add up to we think check check check from a competitive perspective our pipeline proposals versus some others.
Do you have anything to add to that? And also I take it then your thought is there's really going to be one winner here.
There's not going to be a second player.
It's going to be one or the other correct? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Here's how I would answer that question.
When Access Northeast is built it will not be the end of needs in New England.
Over time with the projects we're building AIM and Atlantic Bridge we're not even touching the electric market.
Access is the first one we're touching in the electric market.
And over the last winter it's probably cost consumers up there or at least two winters $2 billion plus in costs and Access Northeast is not going to relieve all of that.
So there will be a need for additional projects.
I guess I would put it this way Access Northeast will be the first of what I expect to be many continuing infrastructure needs on the gas side in New England.
Okay.
That's really helpful.
That's all I had.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
Maybe we'll continue talking Access Northeast once more.
And it's really just Greg to your comment of expecting to put this in execution later this year.
Is the gating item here just having the NESCOE process run its course? And if that's the case is there any insight as to when you think that happens? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I don't think its necessarily NESCOE as opposed to just making sure that we're all on the same page that whatever regulatory approval for contracts and rates actually make very good progress and get done.
So I think that the state approvals of rate structure is probably a bigger issue than NESCOE.
Bill would you add any - Yeah.
I think Carl  so it's Bill.
I think you got to figure this is a solution that's designed specifically to fit what NESCOE was contemplating as they went through the winter.
And when you look at that and think about what we're trying to do here is trying to get all the states which are frankly lined up pretty well right now from a cooperative standpoint to make sure that they've got the right mechanisms in place to approve contracts that are signed by electric distribution companies.
And within the six New England states Greg hit it on the nose you've got between Eversource and National Grid you got between 2/3 and a 100% of the electric customers in four of those six states saying they want Access Northeast.
So this process I think I'm very confident we're going to be getting into service or rather into execution later this year.
Does that  Bill sorry.
Does that require legislation by I mean as far as to meet that service date call it by the end of this year or do you see momentum of that building sooner rather than later? Yeah.
I would say sooner rather than later.
I think it's a mixed bag in New England.
You get some states that I think are fairly sure they can make those approvals now.
And you've got other states that are saying okay how do we work towards getting that together? You know the process in Maine has been through an energy cost reduction plan and still other states will have yet another mechanisms perhaps one requiring legislation.
But I think the good news is when the governors met last month there was a pretty good agreement that this is the direction we want to head in and let's work to get this done as soon as we can.
Excellent.
I appreciate the color.
Maybe one just final question.
Greg given your prior sphere of Canadian politics I'm just curious NDP win yesterday in Alberta.
Does that change anything for you all as you're looking at Western Canada with some of the challenges that may come because of it? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I actually as you know most of our business in Western Canada is in British Columbia.
So advantage British Columbia should the government but let's get in time to see what they'll do do things that hurt production in Alberta.
We have very little activity in Alberta.
As you know we have a little bit of oil income in Alberta but most of it's actually on the U.S.
side of the border.
So I think those companies whose sphere of activity is solely Alberta I think they may find some challenges if just from the chill effect of a change that hasn't occurred for at least four decades is just going to make people quite cautious.
So we'll have to see what happens.
Now that being said Western Canada parts of Western Canada have seen socialist-leaning governments in the past and done okay.
So let's give them time to figure it all out.
Meanwhile full steam ahead in British Columbia as you've seen with Jackfish and RAM and then the open season that we announced today to make sure that we could move gas that our customers want to move at a places like the Montney to markets that need it elsewhere.
Great.
I appreciate the color.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Carl.
Your next question comes from the line of Becca Followill with U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Your line is open.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Becca.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Touching on DCP Midstream and the restructuring process I think a lot of us thought that this would have been reconciled maybe a little bit earlier.
So can you talk to maybe where some of sticking points are? And the items three items that you outlined that you want to get out of this process are those consistent with what your partner wants to get out of this? well on your last (43:56) absolutely I think there's absolutely no daylight between Greg and Greg and Pat and Greg.
And I think you heard that from them last week on their call.
I don't think this is a timing that's any different than what we laid out.
I think we said sometime between April and October.
And I would say a lot of really good progress during the quarter to deal with risk factors that the business is taking.
Now they completed or launched and largely completed already some cost control measures that'll bring in reduced cost call it $70 million in 2016 got the revolver set up to provide flexibility and time on the structuring.
They've done activity on the risk management side vis--vis hedging to third parties and yet met financial expectations in a low market.
So I think we're bang on.
I don't think those objectives have changed.
I don't think there's any sticking points.
It's obviously a major entity which we both like it and we want to make sure that whatever structuring we do we get right Becca.
So stay tuned and I feel very confident that April to October timeframe it will definitely happen.
Great.
Thank you.
That's all I had.
Thanks Becca.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will turn the call back over to Julie Dill for closing remarks.
Thank you Heather.
And thanks everyone for joining us today.
And as always feel free to give Roni Cappadonna or me a call with any additional questions.
And we will be looking forward to seeing many of you over the next couple weeks at the AGA Financial Forum and at NAPTP conferences.
Have a great day.
Thanks.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Angel and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
Julie Dill you may begin your conference.
Thank you Angel and good morning everyone.
My name is Julie Dill the Chief Communications Officer for Spectra Energy.
Thank you for joining us today for our review of Spectra Energy's and Spectra Energy Partners' 2015 second quarter results.
With me today are Greg Ebel President and CEO of both Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners; and Pat Reddy Chief Financial Officer of both companies.
Pat will discuss our results for the quarter and then Greg will update you on our growth opportunities and the progress we're making on our Drive to 35.
And as always we'll leave plenty of time for your questions.
Our Safe Harbor statement is contained within our presentation materials and available on our websites.
This disclaimer is important and integral to all our remarks so I would ask that you refer to it as you review our materials.
Also contained in our presentation materials are non-GAAP measures that we reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and those reconciliations are also available on our websites.
So with that let me turn things over to Pat.
Thank you and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
As you've seen in our news releases both Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners delivered very strong ongoing EBITDA for the quarter.
But before I get into the details of those results I want to discuss some special items we recorded during the quarter as shown on slide three.
There were three special items which lowered reported EBITDA by $217 million or $0.20 per share.
As you can see on this slide only one of these items affected DCF by $11 million.
The first item is $194 million pre-tax non-cash charge or $122 million after-tax which represents our 50% share of a goodwill impairment at DCP.
The second item also is associated with DCP and it's a pre-tax non-cash charge of $12 million related to our share of a loss on the sale of an asset during the quarter.
Lastly Western Canada recorded a pre-tax special item of $11 million related to employee and overhead reductions.
We expect there will be some incremental charges of less than $10 million related to these efforts that will be recorded in the third and fourth quarters.
Our ongoing EBITDA increased year-over-year so let's turn to those results which really tell the story of the strength and resilience of our business model.
As noted we delivered very strong second quarter results with ongoing EBITDA of $652 million at Spectra Energy and $456 million at Spectra Energy Partners.
Given the current macro environment it is significant that Spectra Energy's ongoing EBITDA increased 4% quarter-over-quarter.
As we consistently demonstrated year-after-year our portfolio of assets is structured to moderate the effect of various business cycles and maximize the upside benefits.
And with approximately 95% fee-based earnings at U.S.
Transmission that have no exposure to commodity price or volume fluctuations SEP is a standout in the MLP space.
So let's take a look at the drivers of our results by segment.
I'll start with Spectra Energy Partners whose EBITDA was up almost 30%.
SEP is comprised of our U.S.
Transmission and Liquids businesses and is shown in the upper right-hand corner of slide four.
U.S.
Transmission delivered EBITDA of $396 million up $76 million.
That is almost 24% higher than the same quarter last year.
Results for the 2015 quarter were driven primarily by increased earnings from expansion projects placed into service specifically TEAM 2014 TEAM South and the Kingsport project.
Our Liquids business reported second quarter EBITDA of $78 million compared with $51 million in 2014.
The increase was primarily driven by higher volumes and tariffs on the Express crude pipeline as well as higher equity earnings from increased volumes on the Sand Hills natural gas liquids pipeline.
As you can see SEP is performing very well and delivering results ahead of our expectations.
Moving to the table on the left-hand side of the slide Distribution reported second quarter EBITDA of $98 million compared with $112 million in 2014.
The decrease quarter-over-quarter was due almost entirely to the decline in the value of the Canadian dollar which was down 13% this quarter compared with 2014.
Western Canada recorded ongoing EBITDA for the quarter of $115 million compared with $111 million last year.
Higher earnings at Empress offset the effects of the lower Canadian dollar.
With respect to FX the 13% reduction in the Canadian dollar affected EBITDA for both our Canadian business segments by $26 million quarter-over-quarter.
Fortunately about two-thirds of that number is naturally hedged on a net income basis.
So the change in net income related to FX was only $6 million.
Now a number of you have expressed interest in how the current operating environment in Western Canada might affect our business risk going forward.
So I want to take a moment and speak to the business model of that segment.
First 95% of our Western Canadian business including gathering and processing is fee-based with no direct commodity exposure or volume risk on existing contracts.
While the Canadian pipeline model is similar to the model used in the U.S.
it's important to remember that the Western Canadian G&amp;P structure is different from the more commodity sensitive model that largely exists across the U.S.
G&amp;P business.
Second as you're aware we implemented a risk management program at our Empress processing facility to reduce cash flow volatility.
At our February Analyst Day we said that we expected Empress to generate approximately $30 million of cash this year and we're on track to exceed that forecast for 2015 given the hedges we put in place.
Looking forward to 2016 we've hedged about half of our targeted sales levels at positive margins and we will continue to opportunistically layer in hedges as the year progresses.
It's also important to note that nearly all of our Empress propane and butane sales contracts and our hedging program are linked to Conway and Mont Belvieu pricing not Edmonton.
Moving on to DCP our 50% share of DCP's ongoing EBITDA was a negative $27 million in the quarter compared with $54 million last year.
As expected the decrease is primarily due to significantly lower commodity prices which are down about 50% from last year's levels.
These decreases were partially offset by increased earnings growth or increased earnings from asset growth improved operating efficiencies and savings from other strategic initiatives.
While we'd all love to see stronger commodity prices and positive earnings at DCP I would remind you of counterintuitive effect DCP's lower earnings have on Spectra Energy's cash flows.
Since distributions from DCP can't drop below zero its negative earnings benefit our DCF by ultimately lowering our cash taxes.
So overall Spectra Energy's ongoing EBITDA was up quarter-over-quarter despite both lower commodity prices and a lower Canadian currency.
And again the results at SEP reflect its significant organic growth strong fee-based earnings and virtually no commodity or volume exposure.
Importantly these results exceeded our budget expectations for the 2015 quarter.
Let's take a look our DCF schedules beginning with SEP as shown on slide five.
SEP's standalone distributable cash flow for the quarter was $321 million $82 million more than the same quarter last year with distribution coverage of 1.3 times.
This higher DCF was directly attributable to the higher EBITDA I just described.
For the full year we expect SEP's coverage to be at least 1.1 times consistent with our 2015 forecast.
SEP paid general partner and limited partner distributions to Spectra Energy for the quarter of $56 million and $145 million respectively.
And earlier this morning SEP announced its 31st consecutive quarterly distribution increase of $0.0125 per unit.
We continue to see strong interest in our ATM program at SEP.
To this point in the year SEP has raised almost $350 million through this vehicle.
Given the attractiveness of SEP's investor value proposition and the lack of commodity and volume exposure we expect continued utilization of the ATM program throughout the year and can further expand the program if needed.
Let's turn now to Spectra Energy's distributable cash flow as shown on slide six.
At Spectra Energy distributable cash flow is $274 million for the quarter in line with last year.
Coverage was 1.1 times and DCF per share was $0.41.
Year-to-date we're at 1.7 times coverage and by the end of the year we expect coverage to be at least 1.2 times consistent with the forecast we provided at the beginning of the year.
Total available liquidity across the entire Spectra Energy enterprise was $3.5 billion as of June 30.
So while we still have a little less than half a year ago to go we're feeling very good about how the businesses continue to perform.
We're ahead of where we thought we'd be at this point in time in terms of EBITDA and DCF despite the current environment.
We're very pleased with our performance to date and expect to continue to deliver on the commitments we made for the balance of the year.
So with that let me turn things over to Greg to talk about our growth opportunities and the progress we're making on our Drive to 35.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks very much Pat and good morning everybody.
As you just heard the results we delivered this quarter underscore the stability of our overall earnings and cash generation capabilities.
I think that stability comes from a well-positioned high-performing portfolio of assets that allows us to generate value creating DCF regardless of commodity or market fluctuations.
It also reinforces our confidence and our ability to deliver ongoing annual dividend growth of $0.14 per share while maintaining coverage at or above 1.
Pat mentioned that we realized strong results for the quarter at both Spectra Energy and SEP that's significant and worth repeating.
We believe the strength of our businesses and financial structure are important differentiators allowing us to deliver consistent and dependable growth.
With everything that's occurring in the energy space I want to take a minute to share our priorities for driving growth and increasing shareholder returns for both Spectra Energy and SEP investors.
It goes without saying that safe reliable operations of our assets is a big element of Spectra Energy's success and so we are steadfastly focused on day-to-day operations.
That focus ensures that our customers' requirements are met in a safe and responsible manner.
And my confidence in our operating team's ability gives me more time to concentrate on four other major areas.
First ensuring that we successfully execute on the secured project backlog that we already have and that we do so on time and on budget.
Our execution advantage really does differentiate us especially when you consider that most projects take several years to come into service given the current regulatory process.
As you can imagine this is no small undertaking but we continue to deliver.
This year we've already put $600 billion of expansion capital into service and this amount will grow to more than $2 billion by yearend.
Second I'm focused on securing contracts for projects that are in development.
While our track record would suggest we're successful in signing up the majority of projects we pursue we know it's not possible to secure all of them.
With that said we continue to expect that we will secure contracts of at least another $20 billion at attractive returns by the end of the decade.
To-date this year alone we've moved more than $1 billion of projects into execution and we expect to add to that in a meaningful way by yearend.
Third with our partner Phillips 66 we continue to focus on the appropriate structure of DCP to ensure that DCP and DPM are set up in a manner that provides the best opportunity for the owners to realize their value.
As we said before we expect this matter will be resolved in the October timeframe.
As we work our way through the process our ultimate objective remains ensuring that any structuring outcome still allows DCP's enterprise to retain and grow its number one position in NGL production and gas processing and that it positions DCP to efficiently finance that growth.
Lastly I'm watching for industry consolidation opportunities that fit our portfolio strategically and add value to our shareholders.
Our current Drive to 35 backlog does not contemplate any M&amp;A activity but as we've mentioned before we're constantly looking at opportunities that complement our business portfolio and profile and advance our value creation objectives.
So with that let me now turn to our projects in execution.
As you've heard Pat mention Spectra Energy and SEP's second quarter results benefited from new assets we successfully put in the ground last year.
But we've also had two projects that moved into service since our last earnings call totaling about $600 million so let me begin with those.
At U.S.
Transmission the Uniontown to Gas City project commenced service well ahead of its original November 1 in service date.
And DCP placed the Lucerne II processing plant in the DJ Basin into service since our last call along with several smaller gathering projects.
We also have about $1.6 billion in projects that are nearing completion and are on track to go into service later this year.
Our OPEN project will bring incremental Marcellus and Utica supply to southern markets beginning in November if not sooner.
Our 2015 Dawn-Parkway project is scheduled to go into service at Union Gas during the fourth quarter.
DCP is in the final stages of starting up its Zia II processing plant in the Permian.
And at our Liquids segment the Red Lake lateral to expand the reach of Sand Hills to access growing Permian production will go fully into service once Zia II comes online.
Placing projects into service on time or even ahead of schedule is an example of how we've built our track record of delivering on our execution promises an advantage for both customers and of course investors.
We've got a full complement of great projects in execution which are detailed on this slide.
I'll start by highlighting three new projects that we recently moved into execution.
You'll recall that during last quarter we mentioned open seasons that were underway for projects that would further connect Marcellus and Utica supply to demand markets.
Since then we moved our Lebanon Extension project into execution.
We've secured commercial commitments for the project and are proceeding with the FERC approval process and anticipate a 2017 in-service date.
We also moved the High Pine project into execution.
High Pine is another project in Western Canada that will further expand the BC Pipeline.
You'll recall that we announced a binding open season for this project during our last earnings call.
And we were able to quickly execute our commercial agreement to move the project forward.
This $325 million project will have a late 2016 in-service date.
Another project we moved into execution this past quarter is the 2017 Dawn-Parkway project at Union Gas.
Commercial contracts underpinning this $620 million project have been executed and a facilities application has been filed for approval with the Ontario Energy Board.
Other projects in execution are also proceeding well and are on track to meet their respective in-service dates.
All of these projects are underpinned by executing customer agreements that are unaffected by commodity market conditions.
In fact you'll note that about 75% of our expansion CapEx is driven by natural gas demand pull projects rather than supply push.
During the quarter both the AIM and 2016 Dawn-Parkway projects began construction and are on track to be in service in the second half of 2016.
NEXUS is on track for its fourth quarter 2017 in service date.
We completed a major milestone in the regulatory process for this project by submitting our FERC resource reports in June and we anticipate filing a formal FERC application later this year.
Our execution efforts also continue on two projects in Western Canada to expand our BC Pipeline; the Jackfish Lake and RAM projects.
We expect both of these pipeline expansions to go into service during 2017.
As you know LNG projects on the West Coast of Canada and the U.S.
have been delayed given current market dynamics.
However producers still need to move natural gas.
So this LNG deferment has led to these new opportunities for us in our Western Canadian pipeline totaling about $1 billion already this year.
The pipeline expansion opportunities we're seeing in British Columbia underscored the benefit of having an expansive and strategic existing footprint in a region.
At a time when the Montney region producers are looking for the lowest cost option to move their product quickly to the Pacific Northwest or Eastern Canada or Alberta markets having steel in the ground already is clearly a competitive advantage for us.
So wrapping up the review of projects in execution we will have brought more than $2 billion of projects into service by yearend creating additional earnings and cash flow for 2016 and beyond.
We're making great progress on all of our projects in execution and we continue to further expand our execution backlog by adding about $1 billion of projects over just this last quarter.
You've seen our impressive slate of projects in service and in execution projects that will deliver the earnings and cash flow we laid out in our three-year plan for you in January and February.
In addition to our backlog of projects in execution we have a healthy portfolio of opportunities in development that will lead to continued growth and we're working diligently to move those projects forward.
Let me take a look at some of our projects that are in development.
Access Northeast under development with Eversource and National Grid continues to advance quite nicely.
Unlike other projects in the region which are intended to serve gas LDCs in New England Access Northeast will serve the electric power market.
Project customers including Eversource National Grid and Central Maine Power serve more than 80% of the 6.5 million electric customers in the region.
The project will expand the Algonquin and Maritimes systems utilizing their existing footprints.
We expect the customers to file agreements with their respective PUCs soon and we anticipate moving Access Northeast into execution later this year or early 2016 once state regulatory approvals have been received by our customers.
An interesting note for you we've already seen a record summer-time demand from power generators on our existing Algonquin and Texas Eastern lines this year.
With new number one delivery days of more than 800 million cubic feet a day on each of these lines and daily average deliveries to power generators up 21% over 2014 on Algonquin and up 33% over 2014 on the Eastern Market Zone 3 of TETCo.
Also under development are two Marcellus and Utica expansion projects.
The Greater Philadelphia Expansion and Marcellus to Market projects which received positive responses to open seasons during the quarter and discussions with potential customers are underway.
Moving to Western Canada we kicked-off another binding open season in late July to further expand the T-North section of the BC Pipeline and we expect the results from that this fall.
As I mentioned earlier we're extremely pleased with the level of producer interest we're seeing for our BC Pipeline and we're exploring ways to further serve producers in the Montney region.
Customer interest also remained strong in our large-scale crude oil projects and development.
While we continue to expect a late in-the-decade timeframe to secure commitments to advance these projects in the interim we'll seek smaller scale optimization projects similar to the $135 million Express Enhancement project currently in execution.
To summarize we made significant progress during the quarter on our Drive to 35.
In fact we're more than halfway to our goal with $8.2 billion in service now and $9.6 billion in execution as I speak.
We continue to advance our projects in execution and development to generate incremental cash flow and of course shareholder value.
As you've heard today Spectra Energy delivered solid results for the quarter.
We're disappointed of course that our stock price isn't reflecting the strong performance of our businesses.
We're not alone.
The energy sector is being painted with a far too broad brush and suffering the consequences of perception that all energy cash flows are correlated to commodity prices.
That's just not the case of course and certainly not the case for Spectra Energy and SEP.
The current environment allows investors to differentiate between investment options.
So let me take a minute to remind you why Spectra Energy and SEP are best-in-class investment opportunities.
We understand what investors are looking for and Spectra Energy and SEP offer all those attributes.
Specifically we know that investors prefer strong portfolios.
Our unrivaled footprint connects all the major North American supply basins with growing demand markets.
You could not replicate our geographic positioning nor reach today.
Our healthy mix of businesses are structured to minimize the effect of multiple and varied market cycles.
Next we know that stable reliable cash flows are important for investors as well.
As we told you back in February 99% of Spectra Energy's EBITDA for the 2015 to 2017 period will come from our fee-based businesses and our DCF forecast is virtually unexposed to incremental commodity downside.
And SEP is barely unique in the MLP space as 95% of U.S.
Transmission revenue the largest component of SEP and Spectra Energy for that matter is reservation based with no commodity nor volume exposure.
The average remaining contract term within our gas pipeline business is about nine years and the Express crude pipeline has an average contract term of 10 years thanks to the contract restructuring we've done since acquiring this system in 2013.
Investors seek companies with robust growth profile and again we're making great progress on our Drive to 35.
By 2020 we'll grow our EBITDA by about $1 billion and approximately $800 million at Spectra Energy and SEP respectively.
That the projects that we have in execution are moved into service and begin generating cash.
And with the ongoing growth and the demand for natural gas and natural gas infrastructure we have tremendous confidence in realizing our projects in development.
Healthy financials are also important and we have the financial flexibility to efficiently fund our growth projects and pursuing new opportunities.
We have two solid currencies strong investment grade balance sheet and disciplined financial management.
Investors look for strong track records and proven performance and you've heard me talk about our execution advantage and that's another feature that sets us apart.
Since 2007 we've delivered more than 70 projects into service for a capital expansion investment of about $9 billion a record that speaks to our level of accountability and achievement.
Lastly and most importantly investors want to track the returns and Spectra Energy has done that.
In the past five years our annual dividend per share has grown from $1 to $1.48 and we're committed to continuing to grow Spectra Energy's dividend by at least $0.14 per share through 2017.
Similarly SEP has delivered 31 consecutive quarters of distribution growth and we're committed to continuing that track record with an 8% to 9% annual growth rate through 2017.
So those are the attributes that differ Spectra Energy and SEP from other energy companies and why we believe so strongly that both entities offer a best-in-class investment opportunity today.
With that let me turn things over to Julie to take your questions on the quarter.
Thank you Greg.
And so now we're going to open up the lines for questions.
Angel would you please provide instructions on how folks can ask those questions? Certainly.
Your first question comes from the line of Christine Cho.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi everyone.
Congrats on a great quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> So some questions on SEP and the strength we're seeing there.
You guys talk about in the release how the increase in quarter results were mainly due to three projects.
The TEAM projects were put on September and November of last year I think.
So we've already seen one or two full quarters from these assets yet the beats in earlier quarters were nothing like they are today.
So did the reservation payments for these assets not all come on day one or are they ramping up through the year? Any color on how we should think about that for these assets and maybe your other pipeline projects that are supposed to come online in the future would be helpful? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
I'll  you're right there is some ramp up.
So TEAM 2014 TEAM South the Kingsport project as well didn't have as quick a start up until ramp up in revenues until the new year and I think a little bit better results on the New Jersey and New York project as well than we expected.
I think through the rest of the year call it $5 million maybe $10 million on the projects that we've brought in early will be helpful Christine for the rest of the year as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then I guess kind of going off that when we look at your SEP guidance even if we were to keep EBITDA flat from second quarter and third quarter and fourth quarter you guys would still come in $80 million over guidance.
Given you still have some projects coming online the remainder of this year and we actually still have our winters to go through would it be fair to say that your guidance is very conservative or am I missing something that may provide some offsets in the second half of this year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well as you know Christine we don't change  we come out with our numbers at the start of the year.
I think historically if you looked at the last few years that we've doing DCF we've typically under-promised and over-delivered.
But you still do have two quarters to go and of course well it wouldn't have affected first SEP that much in the first half of the year.
The good strong cold winter was also helpful in some regards in terms of additional interruptible revenues.
So I'm not changing the forecast but I think history would say we do try to under-promise and over-deliver.
Inc.</span></strong> Given most of your cash always is fee-based than take-or-pay how should we think about a distribution increase above guidance or holding it to maybe fund some of your projects? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think that's the balance.
It's interesting because I know historically you and I have chatted about this.
Some people may have had faster growth than us but I think kind of I'd call it 8% to 10% outlook on distribution growth and frankly on dividend growth in that range is the way to think about it.
And I think you see companies actually when our (30:12) dividend growth and distribution growth has actually moved up you're seeing actually other companies come down to a number more in line with ours.
So we look at dividend policy and distribution policy on a regular basis but really make decisions on an annual basis towards the end of the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Hey Christine this is Pat.
I think one thing you know is that you can't levelize things like maintenance CapEx during the year.
So for example we've been averaging about 60% to 70% of our maintenance CapEx in the third and fourth quarters.
So we're not changing our outlook for maintenance but we're just saying remember that there is a ramping up in the last half of the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And then just in the Western Canadian segment obviously the producers up there exposed to the Edmonton propane prices must be struggling with netbacks.
I've seen data that indicated that the frac spread in Canada is actually not that much different from the U.S.
due to lower AECO prices and natural gasoline prices that are higher in Canada which surprised me a bit is that right? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> And as we think of  yeah.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I was just going to say I think that's a fair comment.
I would say you don't have as liquid a market up there A.
B you've got  you did effecting propane prices some infrastructure issues coaching (31:39) et cetera changes.
I guess the point I would make is that remember the Empress business is very much a Conway business.
So wouldn't get  at least as with respect to our business wouldn't focus too much on Edmonton as opposed to what's going from a Conway perspective.
Inc.</span></strong> Well I was more thinking about the outlook for G&amp;P.
What that would do  what that's doing to the rig activity in Western Canada in reaction to the prices? And also if you've heard about any solutions that are being talked about for propane in the region? I've heard of some potential LPG exports in Western Canada or off the coast of Washington do you think either of these could happen or too much regulatory red tape? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I actually don't think its regulatory red tape too much.
I actually think it's volumes.
Remember Western Canada produces about as much liquids as the entire industry as DCP would produce.
So you need a lot of volume and at depressed NGL prices I think it's kind of tough from that perspective.
That being said I think June had the highest production out of Western Canada in a very long time I think 13 Bcf or 14 Bcf.
And while you're right you're seeing rig counts come off you are still seeing a lot of gas being produced.
And I think you see that effect hitting our pipeline business which as you know is a very long-term fee-based contract perspective.
And I'm not sure many people would have predicted that Spectra Energy would have added $1 billion dollars in pipeline projects this year into our backlog out of Western Canada.
And I think that you've going to have ebb and flows between G&amp;P and from pipelines but investors in the E&amp;P business are going to be happy that the producers have pipelines that can take gas down to the Pacific Northwest and Alberta.
So yeah lots of solutions being worked out but I don't see a huge NGL solution in the near-term in Western Canada.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thanks for all the color.
Last question for me.
Can you remind us how exactly the fee-based G&amp;P model works in Western Canada? It's fee based but is there exposure to volumes or is there some sort of demand payment that also needs to get paid is the contract for a certain number of years so is there re-contracting risk? Some detail about that would be helpful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
So you should think of it very much as like negotiated pipeline rates in the United States.
So we sign up contracts for processing plants long-term contracts I think like the Dawson project that we put in place a couple of years was a 20-year contract with a set fee that is not volume risked.
In other words unlike how you often see G&amp;P in the United States it's not volume risked.
Now at the end of contract life just like on a pipeline in the United States or Canada you are exposed to re-contracting.
So that's obviously  that's something you're always looking at.
But I think our average contract life would be three years to five years for the overall whole portfolio and I said projects like Dawson more like 20 years.
So think of it much more like a negotiated rate pipeline as opposed to just cost of service.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you so much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Darren Horowitz with Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everybody.
Greg couple of quick questions for you.
The first on the two Appalachian expansion projects that you discussed.
Just given the recent shift in basin dynamics and not only the imbalance between supply growth and demand but a lot of the pipe options out of the region and the impact on regional pricing differentials maybe shifting economics or at least net back incentives.
I'm just wondering if anything has changed from a customer thought process in your perspective.
Maybe a better way to ask the question is if you could kind of quantify or give us some color on what a positive response to the open season means? And then secondly the one project that wasn't discussed was that Texas Eastern Lebanon expansion project and I was just wondering in terms of incremental CapEx to scale that project up if there could be any opportunity for that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think a variety of questions in there and fortunately Bill Yardley is in the room as well but really I would say customers have the same message get my product to a demand market very simple or get me partial (36:17) on the trail.
And so you've seen us put a variety of projects that not only might take gas and molecules a long-distance but actually to the next closest liquid point.
So you will see the projects ebb and flow in terms of their size.
I don't think there is anything restricting customers from signing up.
Sure E&amp;P customers are very focused on their cap spend and where they think commodity prices will go but  and I think the Lebanon project as you'll see on one of the slides that we've put out of the $9 billion we did put it into execution this quarter Darren.
And I would say it's lumped in with the Access South and Adair Southwest Extension because they really are in many respects for some different customers achieving similar type goals.
So even in the way we're going to FERC and have those approved we have lumped them as one project.
So you continue to see projects morph.
And I think the underlying facet that's really critical and a real advantage for Spectra we already have assets in the ground.
So we're going to  and I hear a lot of discussion about reversing flows and stuff jeez guys we've been doing that for a number of years now.
So I know other folks are starting to think and get to that.
That's not novel for Spectra or its customers and I think that's why you're seeing some of the results that you are seeing.
Bill I don't know if you want to add to that? No.
No I think we're still seeing some pretty good interest in both the Marcellus and the Utica regions from producers.
That's a little bit longer lead time than perhaps it was a couple of years ago but we have a lot of faith in these two projects both Philly and Marcellus to market come to fruition at some point in the not-too-distant future.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think the gating issue as well it's just  I mean look to build anything these days is expensive.
And I think that as always in any good business relationship there's a negotiation back and forth and you've got to find the common ground where it makes economic sense for both parties.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
I think that makes sense.
Last question from me is just on Access Northeast and I realize it's still under development and a little bit of a moving target.
But when you think about the ultimate scale and scope of that $3 billion project and then you reconcile that with a lot of the proposed consolidation in the area and maybe again a bit of a shift in terms of scale and scope of some competitors' pipes.
To your point and I fully agree with you I mean obviously following Algonquin and M&amp;N gives you just from a footprint perspective and a right-of-way perspective a bit of an advance but a little bit of a timing shift here obviously from a regulatory perspective and certainly that's not getting any easier.
But I'm wondering just with some of the different proposed consolidation dynamics economies of scale and what could come out of that area over the next possibly 12 months to 18 months.
How could that impact Access Northeast either in ultimate scale scope from a timing perspective or from a further growth opportunity standpoint? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Again I don't think that'll change the timing.
I mean as I noted just volume increase we're seeing in terms of our deliveries to generators I think  and remember this is the summer where the challenge is really in the winter and we're already seeing 20% 30% increases up there.
I don't think there is that time if they want to keep the lights on.
And I think the Eversources and National Grids of the world which represent what's 5.5 million of the 6.5 million customers up there Bill I think they recognize it.
So I don't see big changes there.
I would also say that doesn't take away from any projects that are also needed out there.
Remember our AIM our Atlantic Bridge projects are about LDCs.
That's already in execution  well in execution.
The other projects about the Access Northeast is about electric.
Other folks' major projects being pitched are LDC-related projects.
So I think the dynamics don't allow for changes.
I think the dynamics that we're seeing are more like additional projects will becoming forth over the following years.
So if you think that we've got  we have 16 17 18 projects coming in service if you look at gas demand in North America going from 75 call it Bcf a day to 100 Bcf 110 Bcf a day in the next 10 years despite what any brilliant policy might be coming out of various government officials that will happen.
And those most of that's going to happen in the Northeast and that's advantage pipeline.
That's got to happen unless people are willing to let lights go out get colder; at this time of year get awful hot and sticky in the Northeast.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks Greg.
Your next question comes from the line of Brandon Blossman.
Your line is open.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> I guess real quick just following on Darren's question.
Access Northeast the PUC process that is kicking off what insight do you guys have into that and/or how do you handicap it as far as an outcome here? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Bill? Yeah.
Sure.
So hey Brandon it's Bill Yardley.
We're really interested in all six New England states is that as an overarching statement I'd say that we've got pretty clear authority in one state Rhode Island and the other four states are going through some sort of process.
We expect those processes to be very clear by year's end.
At the same time we'll be preparing the contracts for the seven utilities that we have  that we're negotiating with we'll be submitting those with each respective state.
And then of course entering the pre-filing process and then looking for those state approvals as Greg mentioned probably early next year.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Good.
That's appreciated.
Sticking with the Northeast Uniontown to Gas City online three months early.
I guess the question is what was the driver for that accelerated pace? And is there any read-throughs to the OPEN project or anything else that's happening in the Northeast? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think depending on where you're working obviously and I'll give our project execution team full credit.
I mean we think this is an advantage we have very keen on local game as opposed to state or national games in terms of getting stuff approved and the delivery was there.
On OPEN obviously our timeframe is still the 1st of November.
And I'm hopeful that we'll be able to do that early as well.
Obviously every day we can get that pipe in earlier that has benefits from a safety perspective from an operational perspective and obviously from an economic perspective in many cases not always the contracts ramp up early.
But I will tell you the customers that have got the projects that are  they like it coming in earlier.
Back to the point I was making that any time we can get their project the heck away from supply area to demand area they'll take it all day long.
So we're pushing as hard as we can.
We obviously have a very systematic approach to doing projects.
This is not a new area for us.
We're talking half a century of building stuff there and we're going to take advantage of that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay good.
Thanks for that.
And then just real quick bigger picture question.
Montney customers you mentioned I think Greg in your prepared comments that there is an interest in finding a outlet that's not LNG for obvious reasons.
My question is is that a permanent solution bringing gas to the U.S.
instead of LNG or is this just a temporary outlet from the Montney customer perspective? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well no.
Well I would say a bit of both obviously.
We're saying we have the long-term contracts cost of service based.
I think it's a combination of both a longer-term solution.
Look I will be surprised to see any on LNG on the West Coast of North America definitely not going to happen before 2020 at this point in time even if you saw approvals happen instantly just the amount of the work that has to get done.
So whether you think a six-year to 10-year solution is a long term or not but I think you're talking about a while before those projects kick in.
And remember once as demand grows across North America the Pacific Northwest Alberta production is often  has been declining so Western Canada is not a single market.
And you're still seeing activity going on from a demand perspective in the oil sands of which much of the fuel they need to use is natural gas.
So yeah I mean there's no doubt the opportunity is being created by LNG deferment but the amount of gas we're talking about is nowhere near the amount of gas that would be needed for LNG.
So one is not going to replace the other the LNG would just be incremental to that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Perfect.
Thank you for that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Earl Lee.
Your line is open.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Earl.
Good morning.
Hi everyone.
Just had a question.
If Congress passes the two-year extension of bonus deprecations could you guys talk a little bit about how that would impact Spectra's distributable cash flow? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
There sure seems to be a very growing momentum in Congress for least one and it seems increasingly a two-year extension of bonus depreciation.
So as you may recall we've lined out in our three-year forecast we see about $300 million in cash taxes in 2016 and 2017.
You could take about $0.75 billion off that cash taxes in 2016 and 2017.
So rough numbers that makes your coverage 20% above your dividend so call it 1.2 range.
And so that's obviously  out of everything folks are looking at that's probably the most impactful change and probably the one that's on a pretty good momentum.
I don't have control over that but I think the reality is that infrastructure builds in this country are critical.
And I think Congress on a bipartisan basis obviously recognizes that and sees the benefits that have been out there.
So yeah we'll be watching that closely as we go through the rest of the year.
Okay.
Thanks a lot Greg.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Earl.
Your next question comes from the line of Ted Durbin.
Your line is open.
Good Morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Ted.
Morning.
Can we just talk about NEXUS a little bit? How much of the volumes  I think you're looking for 1.5 billion there  how much of the volumes you have contracted? What kind of tariff are you looking out there? And what kind of return are you going to  do you think you will get on those volumes that you have contracted? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well if we  I think we're about 70% contracted as you know a big element that  an important element in that is the LDCs that are  I think account for about 40% of the volumes.
They are going through their regulatory processes now.
Those contracts have been filed for approval.
I think the project  it's in that 8% to 10% range.
Obviously if we don't have the full volumes there on start up it's going to be more at the low end of that range and I think the volumes actually are about 1.2 billion Ted in terms of what we're targeting on NEXUS.
Could be up to a 1.5 billion but I think our base economics are on 1.2 billion.
And remember that's an unlevered after-tax IRR.
Perfect.
Thank you.
The next one from me is just no commentary I think even  I must have missed in the prepared remarks around DCP.
You've sort of told folks that you've come up with some sort of I think solution around some of the leverage issues that are happening up at the LLC along with your partner PSX any commentary you can give us there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well not much other then yeah I mean it's very much in line for that October timeframe.
As you know there has been a lot of self help there.
I don't know if we've fully disclosed this but there a couple of hundred million dollars worth of asset sales have already happened at DCP this year.
That's helpful about $70 million of cost effort.
So the management team is doing a very good job to manage that.
The liquidity is in place to take us to the end of the year or into that October timeframe.
We're well within that October timeframe.
So stay tuned Ted.
We continue to work on that and believe that given the partner's relationship ongoing cooperation we're going to get there.
Okay.
We'll wait and see on that one.
And then last one for me.
You did open the door on the M&amp;A I think in some of your comments.
So kind of  and I'd love if you can just expand a little bit about what you're seeing in terms of the types of assets on the market maybe bid/ask spreads fit with your system et cetera? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I'd be a little bit careful on that.
Obviously there's a whole range of stuff Ted obviously from lot of asset sales out there are private equity all that kind of stuff so it depends.
I will say from a selling perspective we've been very pleased what we've seen very healthy multiples on what we've sold out of DCP which were assets that weren't really key for us.
So I'd say maybe the best way to say is look the key is to expand the footprint where we can find synergies and to the extent we can use tax synergies which a lot of other folks have already played that card we have not.
So we'll be looking at that.
I mean I guess my fundamental belief is obviously as we've doubled the size of the company in the last five years doubling the size in the next five years is critical.
And could you leapfrog elements of that with some transactions that may come to floor but obviously it's a bit of a  it's not something you can plan on it's not in our three-year plan.
We don't need to have that happen to hit our targets.
But there is probably some people under stress and we aren't.
Got it.
I'll leave it that.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Ted.
Your next question comes from the line Becca Followill.
Your line is open.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Becca.
Hi guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Becca.
Just following up on some of the questions that have already been asked.
On the industry consolidation is there a limit on size for you guys? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
But there is only so many big players I wouldn't say a limit on size.
I think as my bottom-line would be size  size is an important element longer term but I wouldn't say there is a limit on size.
We've done everything.
If you look at the history from call it the $8 billion $10 billion deals with Westcoast which was  that's 10 12 years ago to call it $1.5 billion on a little pipeline.
So I'd say anywhere in the mix that moves the ball forward but I wouldn't  I don't  size is not the determinant it's far more the economic strategic and footprint expansion that we're looking for.
Would you look at something as large as Williams? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I would  I guess what I would say is that every transaction seems to come across our table but I wouldn't go any further than that.
I don't think there's any transaction out there regardless in any company that we don't look at whether or not they are in play or not.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then on Access Northeast I thought I remembered you guys targeting definitive agreements by June 30.
And with Kinder going ahead and putting their project into their backlog even though it's not fully contracted and realizing that you target a different customer base is your project a go regardless of Kinder assuming...? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah the Kinder project is not a determinant on our project.
We're fine with the customer agreements.
The issue is to get them approved by the PUC that's the gating issue for us.
I think it's fair to say Becca that historically we would have put a project of this nature already in execution but because of the unique element of an electric distribution company seeking approval for gas transmission capacity which has not been done in that neck of the woods that makes us a little bit more cautious.
But I think you even saw comments out of Kinder Morgan in recent days that in fact it's not one or the other both projects are needed and that's where we've been for quite some time as well.
Understand.
Thank you.
And then the last on DCP just wanted to clarify that your stance hasn't changed that you would not put equity into DCP and that you would not have a reduction in your ownership stake not be willing to do that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well yeah.
I don't see the solution as us putting equity in Spectra Energy equity whether it changes our ownership that's always something that I have put on the table historically we like the business.
The issue is one of value Becca.
And I think with any of our assets we're portfolio managers and so if the value is greater to not hold it than hold it then we'd do the right thing from that perspective.
Historically we've never found that's been the case.
Great.
Thank you guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Becca.
Your next question comes from the line of Elvira Scotto.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Just a couple of quick ones for me.
Looking at the Atlantic Bridge project it looks like the estimated CapEx has gone down to about $500 million from $650 million before.
Is that a change in scope or is that just refining costs or can you provide a little detail on that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Bit of both.
The scope declined a little bit from our perspective so therefore that brought down the size.
And obviously we wanted to build for our customers and the customers that signed up.
when we got the critical mass in terms of contracts we said go.
So originally we might have seen some more contracts on that however Elvira when some of those customers couldn't make up their mind we said go because we wanted to deliver for the folks that we already had in hand.
Okay great.
And the return expectations would be in line with what your project returns typically are? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah absolutely.
Okay perfect.
And then just going back to the consolidation question are you looking across  would you look across hydrocarbons? That's number one.
And number two would you look at any anything that would increase commodity price exposure at the SE level? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
Look I mean I think we've been very clear  well first of all let's remind everybody that if you look at our three-year plan our DCF has virtually no incremental exposure to commodity prices.
And we think that's a real value differentiator and I think you see that in the quarter.
So obviously we're very focused on anything we do to be largely and the vast majority fee-based.
Depending on an asset that we might buy if it had some small element which may not stay in the portfolio from a long-term perspective of commodity that's not going to stop me from looking at it.
The issue is what do you do with it from a long-term perspective.
I'll give you a good example it really isn't commodity but sometimes you do things that maybe it's not a perfect fit but turn out to be quite well.
When we bought Westcoast Union Gas which is still in our portfolio and with well in excess of a couple of billion dollars of expansion projects for a utility you wouldn't expect on pipelines that may not have fit perfectly but it's been a good generator.
Meanwhile other utilities that we held when we bought Westcoast we had sold those assets.
So I think it's  but none of that would have stopped the big prize (57:31) of what we looked at on Westcoast which was really the pipeline operations that we liked in Canada but the focus is definitely from a fee-based perspective.
Okay great.
And then just going back to DCP the October timeframe is that a timeframe where we'll get an indication of what the resolution will be or is that when a resolution will be implemented by? And is there anything special about October? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well nothing really special about October although I would expect you'd have both a combination of a completion and more than an idea the actual firm plan of what we plan to do in that timeframe.
Whether it's all fully implemented we'll just have to clarify that when we announce something Elvira.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Your final question comes from the line of Shneur Gershuni.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Shneur.
Most of my questions have definitely been asked and answered but I was wondering if we can just do two little follow-up questions related to DCP.
I realize you're not providing an update on the strategy at this stage right now.
But you've been very resolute in the past in saying that money goes one way.
Has that changed at all just given how bad the NGL market has been? Or can we still continue to assume that SE will not be injecting any capital into DCP? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Look I think we've been clear that we don't plan to put SE equity into it.
We have supported it in a variety of ways historically and today.
So I don't want to split hairs here but Shneur as you know over the next three years we have foregone our right to take distributions that are available for us to take.
So I don't want to  it would be hard to say that's not us leaving cash not taking cash out.
I guess we could have brought it home and given it back A.
So I think we do put cash in from time to time.
The point is we're putting SE equity in it A.
And B we've also bought assets and that's worked out well as they're fee-based.
We own a third of those NGL pipelines which are really great assets.
So I think I'd look at it that way but yeah I would say that's no change in the position we have had historically.
Okay.
Cool.
That's what I thought and wanted to confirm and I realize it was just splitting hairs there.
But yeah specifically SE equity is not going in.
And then the second question Pat you had sort of talked about the perverse tax benefit as a result.
And so basically the more DCP loses effectively the better it is for you on a cash flow basis at least in the near term until you max out the tax benefit.
But if there is any change in Spectra's ownership of the GP let's say one of the solutions is somebody injects capital you find a partner and your ownership is diluted let's say down to 20% or 25%.
Would that change your ability to continue to have that tax benefit or you would still continue to have equity method accounting and it would still flow through? It's the latter.
Shneur we'd still follow the equity method accounting.
We pick up our share of any EBITDA loss and then that would generate current cash tax savings.
So to your point it would just be proportionately less than it otherwise would have been.
Perfect.
All right.
Thank you very much guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Okay.
There are no further...
Sorry Angel.
I'm sorry.
I was going to say there are no further questions.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate everyone joining us on the call today.
Of course if you have any additional questions feel free to call Roni Cappadonna or me.
And hope you all have a good and safe day.
Thanks very much.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participant lines are in a listen-only mode.
After this morning's prepared remarks there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Julie Dill Chief Communications Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Maria and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today for our review of Spectra Energy's and Spectra Energy Partners' 2015 third quarter results.
With me today are Greg Ebel President and CEO of both Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners and Pat Reddy Chief Financial Officer for both companies.
Pat will discuss our results for the quarter and then Greg will update you on our growth opportunities and the progress we're making on our Drive to 35.
And as always we'll leave plenty of time for your questions.
Our Safe Harbor statement is contained within our presentation materials and is available on our websites.
This disclaimer is important and integral to all our remarks so I would ask that you refer to it as you review our materials.
Also contained in our presentation materials are non-GAAP measures that we reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and those reconciliations are also available on our website.
So with that let me turn things over to Pat.
Well thank you Julie and good morning.
Thanks for joining us today.
As you've seen in our news releases both Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners delivered solid EBITDA for the quarter.
These results reflect the strength of our diverse portfolio which is structured to moderate the effects of various business cycles and preserve the upside benefits in the recovery phase.
Spectra Energy Partners' EBITDA for the quarter was $467 million $66 million higher than the same quarter last year and ongoing EBITDA at Spectra Energy was $634 million down $70 million from the prior year quarter.
Spectra Energy's ongoing results exclude special items of $26 million all at DCP and primarily from the gain on sale of an asset.
Turning to the drivers of our ongoing results by segment let's start with Spectra Energy Partners where EBITDA was up approximately 16% quarter over quarter.
SEP consists of our U.S.
Transmission and Liquids businesses and is shown in the upper right-hand corner of slide three.
U.S.
Transmission delivered EBITDA of $401 million up $49 million over last year.
These quarterly EBITDA results reflect increased earnings at U.S.
Transmission and are attributable to expansion projects placed into service in the prior year: TEAM 2014 and Team South; as well as those placed into full or partial service in the third quarter of this year: Uniontown to Gas City and OPEN respectively.
Both of these projects came into service earlier than expected building on our lengthening record of excellence in execution.
Our base business continues to perform well and I'm pleased to report that we have achieved a renewal rate of about 98% of our contracted revenue on the U.S.
natural gas pipelines which is an indication of the value of our underlying base business.
The liquids business reported third quarter EBITDA of $79 million compared with $60 million in the prior year quarter.
The improvement is attributable mainly to higher transportation revenues due to increased tariff rates and volumes on the Express pipeline.
Let's move now to our Canadian business segments which are shown on the left hand side of the slide.
While our three-year plan anticipated a lower Canadian dollar in 2015 compared to 2014 for the quarter the Canadian dollar was 14% weaker than our plan had assumed.
As a result the FX effect on EBITDA for our Canadian business segments this quarter compared to the same quarter last year was $14 million at Distribution and $24 at Western Canada or $38 million in total.
As a reminder about two-thirds of our currency exposure is naturally hedged at the net income level on an annual basis.
For the quarter the reduction in net income from controlling interest related to FX was $18 million.
Distribution reported third quarter EBITDA of $70 million compared with $82 million in 2014.
The decrease quarter-over-quarter was driven by the decline in the value of the Canadian dollar.
The base business remains strong and excluding the effect of FX Distribution would have reported EBITDA that was higher quarter-over-quarter due to customer growth.
Western Canada reported EBITDA of $117 million compared with $156 million in the prior year quarter.
The decrease quarter-over-quarter is due entirely to the effect of the lower Canadian dollar I mentioned previously combined with lower earnings at Empress.
The risk management program implemented at Empress including the hedges that we have in place continues to support our view that Empress will generate cash of $30 million this year.
Also as a reminder our Western Canadian business including gathering and processing is fee-based with no direct commodity exposure or volume risk on existing contracts.
We continue to monitor the current macro environment and producer activity in Western Canada as there have been slowdowns in some areas.
We remain focused on continued prudent cost management to respond to the changing environment in Western Canada.
Moving on to DCP you'll recall that what we show here as Spectra Energy's EBITDA from Field Services actually represents our 50% share of DCP's earnings before income taxes plus gains from DP unit issuances.
Excluding the effect of special items DCP's year-to-date EBITDA on a standalone basis is about $500 million which is an indication of the strength of this business even in the current market environment.
For the quarter we reported ongoing EBITDA from Field Services of negative $29 million compared with $63 million last year.
The 2015 period excludes special items of $26 million as previously mentioned.
The 2014 period excludes special items of $12 million mainly due to a goodwill impairment.
The decrease in ongoing earnings was primarily driven by continued lower commodity prices and lower gains on DPM unit issuances.
These decreases were partially offset by asset growth improved operating efficiencies and other initiatives.
We're pleased with all of the actions that have been taken to strengthen DCP and Greg will speak more about that in a minute.
So all in all it was a solid quarter for both Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners.
Importantly these results have us ahead of our expectations at this point in the year and we expect to meet or exceed our full-year plan and deliver on the significant financial commitments we made at the beginning of the year.
Let's take a look at our distributable cash flow schedules beginning with SEP as shown on our Slide 4.
SEP's standalone distributable cash flow for the quarter was $270 million an increase of $23 million over the prior year quarter.
The higher DCF was attributable to the higher EBITDA I previously mentioned and reflects SEP's significant organic growth strong fee-based earnings and virtually no commodity or volume exposure.
The quarterly and year-to-date results are consistent with our 2015 plan expectations to achieve full year coverage of 1.1x.
SEP paid general and limited partner distributions to Spectra Energy for the quarter of $61 million and $148 million respectively.
In addition SEP continued to grow its distribution with its recently announced 32nd consecutive quarterly distribution increase.
Turning to Slide 5.
Spectra Energy's distributable cash flow is $223 million for the quarter compared with $236 million last year.
The lower DCF is primarily attributable to receiving no distributions from DCP this quarter versus $43 million last year.
Both quarterly and year-to-date results for DCF are consistent with our plan to achieve full-year distribution coverage of 1.2x.
SEP's ATM program continues to attract investor interest and as a result we don't anticipate accessing the equity markets through any vehicle other than our ATM program for the remainder of this year.
For the year to date SEP has raised $450 million through its ATM.
We also have significant liquidity available across the company totaling $3.4 billion as of September 30.
This financial flexibility gives us confidence in our continued capacity to successfully fund our growth projects in an efficient and cost-effective manner.
We know that investors are interested in the credit quality of our customers so I want to mention that 90% of our revenues are contracted with customers who are investment-grade or are secured by investment-grade equivalents like letters of credit.
Overall our base businesses continued to perform well generating stable and sustainable earnings and cash flow.
Our financial results are ahead of our expectations even with commodity and FX headwinds and we have the financial flexibility to fund our growth projects efficiently while staying on track to meet or exceed our 2015 EBITDA and DCF objectives.
As a result we remain confident in our ability to deliver on the $0.14 annual dividend increase guidance we shared with you earlier this year.
So with that let me turn things over to Greg to talk about our growth opportunities and the progress we're making on our Drive to 35.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well thanks very much Pat and good morning everybody.
As you've just heard we achieved another solid quarter from both a financial and execution perspective.
The results we delivered this quarter continue to underscore the strength and resilience of our portfolio of businesses.
SEP has no commodity and virtually no volume exposure and Spectra Energy's exposure to commodity is limited to 1% of our forecasted EBITDA.
In the current environment this limited commodity and volume exposure coupled with our track record of consistently doing what we say we'll do are important risk differentiators for us versus many others in the midstream space.
Our focus continues to be on operating our business safely and reliably and delivering on our growth and dividend promises for investors in both Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners.
You've previously seen this slide outlining our priorities so let me provide an update on our progress.
First we're very pleased that the recent transactions initiated by Spectra Energy and Phillips 66 to strengthen DCP are complete with the transactions closing on October 30.
As we have said previously the contributions made by the owners along with the other initiatives underway at DCP establish a foundation for sustainable cash flows at DCP Midstream over the longer run.
DCP quickly adjusted to the rapidly changing industry environment and continues to be extremely diligent in taking actions of its own to ensure its longer-term success.
Over the past year DCP has engaged in various self-help initiatives including the sale of $200 million of non-core or underperforming assets reducing base costs by approximately $70 million and launching the restructuring of its commodity-sensitive contracts which combined with hedging will increase fee-based earnings.
I'm very pleased with the progress being made on the contract conversion front.
As an example you may have seen the recent announcement of a 10-year renewal of contract with one of the largest investment-grade independent producers in the Permian.
This new contract has been converted at significantly better margins from percent of proceeds to 100% fee-based and covers approximately 1 million dedicated acres.
DCP is on track if not slightly ahead of where they need to be to achieve their contract conversion goal of reducing one-third of its commodity-exposed NGL length by the end of 2017.
With the support provided by the owners and DCP's own initiatives it's our view that DCP has the ability to realize breakeven cash flows and make ongoing positive economic contributions to the owners at current commodity prices while remaining well positioned to further benefit from industry recovery.
This turnaround is significant and a direct reflection of all the actions taken to strengthen this must-run business.
Next completing our secured backlog and doing so on time and on budget continues to be key to our execution advantage.
We also remain diligent in advancing and securing projects in development to ensure we deliver on our growth objectives.
Finally we continue to believe there will be industry consolidation opportunities and that could advance our value creation objectives and complement our business profile.
With that let me update you on the projects we have in execution.
You've seen this slide many times before and it's a great scorecard to track the success that we've had so far in executing on our growth plans.
Not only are we consistently demonstrating that our project development timelines and budgets are reliable but also that we're able to realize some upside from placing projects into service early.
Our Uniontown to Gas City Project began delivering gas to the Midwest on August 1 and was fully in service September 1 two full months ahead of the schedule.
Additionally the first segment of OPEN was also put into service about six weeks ahead of schedule and the remaining portion of OPEN has a November in-service date.
We're very proud of the track record on project execution and pleased with the growth that these projects offer our investors.
Since our last earnings call we've moved $1.4 billion of expansion projects into service and by year end that number will be almost $1.9 billion as we will place the 2015 Dawn Parkway project fully into service consistent with the originally planned in-service date.
In aggregate the expansion projects that will be placed into service this year excluding those at DCP will generate $135 million of EBITDA annually.
These projects are fee based with no commodity or volume exposure further adding to the stability of Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners earnings and cash flows.
Overall 2015 will be a successful year for delivering projects into service and demonstrating our project execution advantage.
Looking forward our project backlog has almost $9 billion of projects still to be placed into service.
As a reminder all of these projects are underpinned by executed customer agreements.
You'll also notice that about 75% of our expansion CapEx in execution is supported by secure contracts with demand pull customers such as local gas distribution companies further demonstrating the strength of our current project backlog in this environment.
All of our projects in execution are proceeding well and are on track to meet their respective in-service dates.
And here's an indication of the great progress we've been making since our last earnings call.
We have filed FERC regulatory applications for several U.S.
projects: Atlantic Bridge PennEast Access South Adair Southwest and the Lebanon extension.
In Western Canada the Jackfish Lake RAM and High Pine projects have either already been filed or will be filed this month with the National Energy Board.
These projects represent about $1 billion of low-risk cost-of-service pipeline expansions.
In addition construction is underway on AIM the 2016 Dawn-Parkway project and the Express Enhancement project and we are on track to begin construction on Sabal Trail next year.
A significant milestone will be met on NEXUS later this month when the project files its FERC application.
Let's take a closer look at NEXUS and the progress we're making on that particular project.
Many of you are familiar with NEXUS but I want to take this opportunity to remind you of the scope of the project that we are jointly developing with DTE.
The NEXUS project is a 250-mile 1.5 Bcf a day pipeline that will originate at Kensington Ohio and connect with DTE Gas in Michigan.
This path will utilize TETCo DTE Gas and Vector pipelines and the project represents tremendous opportunities for customers to access gas from both Utica and Marcellus and move it through markets in Ohio and Michigan to the 150 Bcf a day Dawn storage hub the second largest physical trading gas hub in North America and which is owned and operated by our own Union Gas.
NEXUS is a key strategic project for us as it will ultimately connect Texas Eastern with the Union Gas system something we've been envisioning for our customers for many years.
To complete the upstream path of NEXUS we're advancing the TEAL project an expansion of TETCo to offer customers greater supply access and market connectivity by transporting gas on Texas Eastern to Kensington Ohio.
We'll be filing our FERC application for TEAL later this month.
As you know downstream of NEXUS are the Union Gas's $1.5 billion Dawn to Parkway expansions which provide customers in Eastern Canada and the Northeast U.S.
access to supply directly at the Dawn hub and the capacity to move their gas to downstream markets.
And as I mentioned earlier the first phase of the Union Gas Dawn-Parkway expansion projects will be completed later this year.
NEXUS is moving forward with the support from executed customer agreements with LDCs so demand pull markets as well as Marcellus and Utica producers.
We've also recently signed a number of interconnect agreements with industrial facilities and power generators that could connect incremental load across Northern Ohio of up to 1.4 Bcf a day.
Importantly this demonstrates strong long-term market support for our route and the project and we continue to see increased production forecast for the Appalachian region.
We've achieved several milestones in NEXUS this year including the January approval by FERC to use the prefiling review process selection of an EPCM contractor and securing pipe for the project and as mentioned NEXUS will file its FERC application later this month and we would expect FERC to issue its approval to proceed in the second half of 2016 thereby allowing us to achieve our in-service date of late 2017.
So we're pleased with the progress we're making on NEXUS as well as the progress we continue to make on all of our projects in execution.
When this backlog of project is in service along with the others we'll place into service this year investors can expect these projects to generate about $1 billion of EBITDA by 2020.
Let's now shift our focus to projects in development.
In addition to our backlog of projects in execution we've got a robust portfolio of opportunities in development that will lead to continued growth in 2018 and beyond and we're working diligently towards advancing those projects.
We continue to make progress on our Access Northeast project which is an expansion of our Algonquin system to serve the New England power generation markets and address electric reliability concerns during peak periods.
This reliability is becoming a more critical concern each year as additional coal oil and nuclear plants announce retirements.
Key to Access Northeast is recognizing the importance of being directly connected to 60% of New England's gas-fired electric generators.
Gas deliveries to electric generators can only be guaranteed for those with last-mile firm transportation contracts.
Electric generators without last-mile firm transportation contracts have no guarantees of gas deliveries on peak demand days regardless of firm contracts they may have on other pipelines.
Access Northeast will largely solve this issue.
Earlier this week we filed with FERC to use the pre-filing review process for this project.
At the state level we are at a positive turning point as support for our approach and for the electric distribution companies to secure capacity continues to build with a series of separate but very consistent actions across the different states.
Rhode Island's Affordable Clean Energy Security Act of 2014 authorizes the Division of Public Utilities and Carriers and the Office of Energy Resources to develop and issue open and competitive solicitations for infrastructure projects and clean energy resources.
Last month in Massachusetts the Department of Public Utilities confirmed its legal authority to review and approve EDC contracts to enhance electrical reliability and reduce energy costs.
The Maine PUC's ongoing proceedings has recognized the benefits of examining a regional electric reliability solution for Maine customers.
Connecticut continues to make progress towards their RFP focused on ensuring electric reliability as outlined in legislation passed this summer.
And in New Hampshire the PUC staff has issued a report supporting the legal authority for EDCs to enter into gas pipeline capacity contracts.
We've made significant progress since the region's governors came together around the reliability challenge they identified in 2013.
We're optimistic that before the year is over some of the electric distribution companies will be filing contracts for state approval.
As a result with all this positive momentum we are now even more confident in our ability to move Access Northeast into execution in the first half of 2016.
We continue to actively pursue many other projects in development and have ongoing productive discussions with potential customers.
Interest remains strong in many of these projects particularly those that are demand-pull.
Supply-push discussions are proceeding at a slower pace in the current market environment.
However we remain highly confident that this infrastructure is needed and will ultimately be secured by the end of the decade.
We will continue to actively engage with the market as the energy environment evolves and aggressively pursue the other projects in development.
Two years ago our Drive to 35 originated from our expectation that we had the ability to secure contracts and pursue organic growth projects totaling $35 billion.
To date we've been very successful in our efforts with almost $10 billion in service and delivering cash and almost $9 billion remaining in our secured project execution backlog which will add incremental cash flow beyond the current period.
We will continue to focus our efforts on organic growth since it's the most economically attractive way to grow albeit often at a slower pace.
We're not dependent on M&amp;A to achieve our Drive to 35; however the current environment may provide good opportunities to participate in industry consolidation which could in fact expedite our efforts to achieve that goal.
So we continue to deliver solid results further proof of the resiliency of our underlying businesses and continued demonstration of our execution advantage.
As I mentioned last quarter not only do we believe that investors are beginning to differentiate between investment options in this environment but also that Spectra Energy and SEP offer best in class investment opportunities.
Spectra Energy's Partners is one of the lowest-risk MLP investments available offering investors visible growth.
The average remaining contract term within our gas pipeline business is about nine years and these are reservation-based contracts.
An Express crude pipeline has an average contract term of 10 years.
Revenues are reservation-based with no commodity exposure and virtually no volume exposure allowing us to provide quarterly distribution growth for investors every quarter for the last eight years.
And we're committed to continuing that track record with 8% to 9% annual growth.
Simply put SEP is the most proven steady large pipeline MLP in existence today.
Spectra Energy offers an unrivaled footprint that connects all of the major North American supply basins with demand markets a first- and last-mile advantage.
With more than half its EBITDA coming from SEP stable and reliable earnings 99% of Spectra Energy's EBITDA for 2015 to 2017 period will come from our fee-based businesses.
And there is virtually no further commodity downside to our DCF forecast if commodity prices move lower.
As such we remain committed to growing Spectra Energy's annual dividend by $0.14 per share through 2017.
We have the financial flexibility to efficiently fund our impressive backlog of secured growth projects and pursue new opportunities.
We've got two strong currencies through Spectra Energy shares and Spectra Energy Partners.
Both companies have investment-grade balance sheets which we're committed to and we are disciplined in our financial management.
So those are the attributes we believe differentiate Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners from other energy companies and why we believe so strongly that both our companies offer best-in-class low-risk investment opportunities today.
With that let me turn things over to Julie so that we can take your questions.
Thank you Greg.
So Maria we're ready to take questions.
If you would open up the lines we'd appreciate that.
Our first question comes from the line of Darren Horowitz of Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning guys.
Two quick questions from me to start.
First Greg if I could on Access Northeast and I realize a lot of this is going to hinge on the level of state approvals for the EDCs that ultimately transpire but at this point do you have an estimate of where you think the incremental EDC capacity commitments could land based on the level of support that you guys have? And also has there been any change to your thoughts on timing? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't think any change on timing.
Bill do you want to speak to the level of commitments? Bill Yardley's actually here with me who I think most of you know runs our U.S.
pipeline operations and business.
U.S.
Transmission</span></strong> Hey Darren.
We haven't deviated from the 900 000 Bcf that we feel (a) that we feel that the region needs and that is needed specifically on Algonquin in particular.
We feel pretty good that we're in the running for that entire volume.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then Bill if I could switch for a second over to NEXUS including those interconnect agreements with the industrial and power-gen customers what's the total level of commitments relative to that 1.5 Bcf a day of capacity now? U.S.
Transmission</span></strong> So at the 1.5 Bcf we are at about 60% 65% firm contracts all wrapped up there.
The interconnects represent about 1.4 Bcf of potential market along the pipeline route.
And it's kind of why we picked this route; we picked a bit of a northerly route to make sure that we had these options and alternatives and that's looking very attractive to producers as they assess when to jump back into the capacity game.
I will add to that too we have four other generators  when you think about the power in this region and potential coal conversions and coal retirements we have four generators we're talking to that are  they total about 3 000 megawatts and that would be another 0.5 Bcf on top of that so really good load there.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes just to add to that Darren I think just like in the Northeast projects when we lay out these pipeline routes obviously we look for and are close to industrials and power plants.
So those interconnects I think  remember that's done at their request.
So that's very much I think underlines just the demand factor for these pipelines.
Again we've seen that in the Northeast and we're seeing it again here.
You get the base commitment and then others come along and see really the power of having natural gas available to them.
Inc.</span></strong> I appreciate it.
Thanks guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Brandon Blossman of Tudor Pickering and Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good morning gentlemen.
Julie.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Brandon.
Good morning.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Greg following on the participating in industry consolidation bullet can you describe what you see as the M&amp;A landscape today and how it may change over the next 6 months to 12 months? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well there's no doubt it's going to change over the next 6 months to 12 months.
I think what you're seeing is starting to see some real differentiation.
I just look at SEP equity for example.
In the last 12 months SEP equity I don't think it should have but it backed up the yield maybe 100 basis points 125 basis points.
But you see a lot of others moving 200 basis points 300 basis points 400 basis points 500 basis points even 600 basis points on their yield.
I think that's going to make it very tough for some of those people to be able to execute on some of their plans and so I think that could create some opportunity for us.
Obviously I think part of our interest is on the liquids side.
We're always open to gas that's our base business.
So I don't think the delta between the bid and ask has come down entirely yet but again as each quarter goes on and people see the strength of those people with pipeline assets like we have that have very steady reliable and have committed to 8% 9% type growth that's going to be rewarded versus some folks who have maybe much loftier suggestions that people are going to realize in this environment is not possible.
So I think you're going to see strength go to people of size and strength go to people of low volatility.
And I think that's advantage for both Spectra and Spectra Energy Partners.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Very useful color.
I appreciate that.
And then just circling back to Access Northeast obviously some very nice regulatory tailwinds.
I guess a question when you are talking with regulators is there any conversation about competing projects and maybe a cost advantage that you have relative to those projects? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'll let Bill add to that.
But I would say that yes and I'd also say one of the critical components is greenfield versus brownfield and obviously that leads to disruption and cost differentiators.
And I think Access Northeast has a huge advantage there.
I would say it's not just regulators also politicians local communities.
As you know Algonquin is the backbone through New England and I think both Grid and Eversource have recognized that as partners.
Bill I think you were up there talking to folks last week.
Any color? U.S.
Transmission</span></strong> Yeah.
One thing I'd add to that I think you summed it up well.
The discussions we do have  these electric distribution companies in the region as a whole are looking at making a significant investment and so they want to make sure that the capacity that they're getting is going to the actual power plants that need it the most.
and that's probably the extent of any type of conversation we have in the competitive landscape.
They just know that we can get the gas exactly to where it's needed.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Brandon.
One thing that I think why we're so optimistic now of being able to move into execution is remember typically this is a project that you'd already see in execution good partners good contracts kind of thing.
But there are some unique regulatory aspects to it.
But probably the biggest one that we first had to get over was the fact of the legality if you will of EDC's whole pipeline capacity.
I think in the last several months that's largely been put to bed.
And so that was a critical component and now the other one we'll just turn around getting contracts filed with regulators which as I think we made in opening comments we'd expect to see some of those folks do that before the end of the year.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Great.
That's it for me.
Thanks Greg and Bill.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan of Citigroup.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Faisel.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> I just have a couple simple questions.
Just looking at your TEAM 2014 and your TEAM South expansions I just want to get a little bit of a gauge in terms of how those backhaul those commitments to move gas south what the utilization of those systems look like now that things are up and running.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah they're maxed I think from pretty well day one.
As usual in that neck of the woods Faisel I wish we'd built more.
And so I think they contributed probably close to $20 million just for the quarter between those two projects.
So they're full capacity.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay got you.
And then just on some of these smaller projects that we look at whether it's a partial conversion of your gas line to a products line or if it's an enhancement to Express Pipeline the $135 million of capital you're putting there.
How are these sort of brownfield projects where you're talking about more of a liquids component versus gas which we can look at the FERC documents and figure out those increased tariffs and what they mean for the returns on those capital what are those sort of returns look like on these conversions to liquid lines or expansion of liquid lines? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well in both cases you're talking about double-digit type returns obviously with far less capital being put to work.
Think about it like adding compression to a gas pipeline.
Obviously it's cheaper than providing pipe.
So you're seeing the same thing on the enhancement side relatively small increments.
I think the Express Enhancement adds about 20 000 barrels so it's not huge.
But obviously people will pay a lot to move product anywhere at this point in time and you're obviously attracting that full rate for a relatively small incremental capital.
So typically the small projects while they are by definition small provide very good returns relative to large brownfields or obviously greenfield projects which are high-single digit type projects.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
The last question from me.
On this procurement of pipeline and steel and those sort of things what are you seeing right now in the market? How much are costs coming down and where are we in the cycle? Are those costs being passed through in lower steel and HRC costs? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well it's obviously a competitive world out there obviously so any pipeline savings we get they may help you on one project but by the next project everybody's got the same competitive makeup so it quickly dissipates.
But that being said we're taking advantage where we can on that front and we are seeing some benefits on the steel front I'd even say on turbines and things like that.
But important to remember is that the breakdown is about 70/30 for capital in terms of 30% is hard assets if you will.
70% is labor and regulatory and land.
And Faisel we're not seeing any pullback in costs on those fronts.
People are building projects in highly concentrated areas.
As we all know regulatory processes don't get any easier.
Land issues labor is tight in those locations.
You can move steel from one part of the continent to the opposite side but you can't move people that way right.
So I think the savings because of a relatively weak energy environment are not really showing up in full pipeline construction.
You're getting some benefits on hard product but again most of the costs are on the other side.
So we feel good about our estimates but I don't see us seeing big cost savings in this environment.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Got it.
Thanks for the time.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ted Durbin of Goldman Sachs.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Ted.
Good morning.
Thanks.
First question from me is DCP fixed? And what I mean by that is if we sit here where the strip is where it is where maybe volumes and activity levels are unchanged is there any need to do anything else there? Do you need to put more capital in more assets in et cetera? Or can we kind of go forward as we are? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Look I think we've done again with the self-help with the support of the parent or the parents we're in a good position as I said in my comments where at these types of prices DCP can be a cash-positive business.
So yes I believe we're in a sustainable position.
Maybe just interesting for people to understand from a volatility perspective at DCP a year ago 50% of DCP's margins came from PoP and keep-whole.
Today that's less than 30%.
And the biggest chunk of margin comes from gas and NGL fee margins and that's a substantial change in a year.
And we've even seen about a 20% increase in the margins realized on gas processing on a fee basis.
So I think between  and we're still early days of the contract discussions but I think as Wouter [Van Kempen] outlined for investors in February at our conference that was something we got on very early.
And so yeah I think we've created a sustainable environment there for investors that won't require additional support from the parents.
Great.
Good to hear.
And then you mentioned a little bit about the volumes in western Canada and just noticing the processing numbers are down 12% year-over-year.
What's the outlook there? Do we feel like we're stabilized with where the activity levels are there? Or is there any down side? And then maybe can you just remind us the contract duration that you've got there if you have any recontracting risk around those assets.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
So remember two types of business there right.
Call it one-third 35% pipeline business.
So there's no contracting risk on the pipeline side of things cost of service.
And that's where we're adding additional capital.
On the G&amp;P side contract life's run average two to three years.
And you always have some IT.
I think IT runs about 10% from a revenue perspective so obviously you've got some down side risk there.
As we go through and get our plans wrapped up for next year that's exactly the kind of stuff that we're looking at.
And contract renewals usually come up Ted in the April time period.
So that will give us a view next April on how things are going to look from a longer-term perspective.
Still production of natural gas is going on.
And most of our assets are in British Columbia as you know.
And I think you do see obviously important infrastructure investments on the pipeline side saying that people still want to get their product out of Western Canada.
So yeah sure a challenging environment and we'll just have to watch to see how things go over the next year or so from a commodity price perspective.
Sure.
And then the last one from me.
You've taken on some partners on some of these projects JVs and whatnot.
Is that still the MO as you move forward and move some more of these projects that are in development into execution? Or would you like to keep whether it's operational control or full ownership of some of the projects you've got ahead of you? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we will always keep operational control.
That's the modus operandi number one.
And I would argue even strategic control.
But the partnerships are really critical.
I think the partners that we've taken on and we have a long history of doing this whether it's ExxonMobil or Maritimes &amp; Northeast 10 years ago.
Or whether it's Sabal with our friends at NextEra and Duke or whether it's in the Northeast with Grid and Eversource or DTE they all have really important insights as to what's going on locally.
And that's where our competitive advantage comes.
So would I like 100% of everything? Absolutely.
But you know pigs get fat; hogs get slaughtered.
So from my perspective let's  we like that MO where we've got big sophisticated partners and we'll continue to do that.
Great.
I'll leave it at that.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Ted.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Lechem of CIBC.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Paul.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Just maybe following on the questions on Western Canada I think Pat mentioned that Empress is on track to achieve $30 million cash in 2015.
Can you talk a little bit about the duration of the contracts on Empress and what the early view to 2016 might be? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah remember things like ethane and stuff sure are long-term contracts through 2019 2020 so that's quite different from the United States where ethane is not done on a cost-of-service basis so that's a positive.
On the other side for the other commodities really when you think about propane and butane we did put in some hedging last year and I think we're about 50% hedged for 2016 Paul.
So again as we go through the year and put the plan out you can only go out about 12 months from that perspective.
I would say that's an element of exposure there but feel pretty good to be 50% hedged for next year as well.
Volumes through Empress have been better than what we expected for the year.
So that's pleasant.
Margin is lower volume is higher which is why we've kind of been focused on this $30 million of cash generation there a year.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
And despite the caution around the outlook in Western Canada I saw a couple of the projects there actually got a big larger.
I think the RAM project and High Pine ...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> ...went up a little bit.
Can you just talk about what's the driver behind the increased CapEx? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well pure demand really.
I think just as we got through to the filings and confirmed what customers really needed and the way in which we structured the projects that just grew the size a little bit.
Remember from a cost-of-service perspective that's the important element there.
So as they go into the NEB filing you obviously want to make sure that you've got your costs locked down.
I'd say the other thing with Western Canada Paul to think about is while the LNG projects as you know I don't think anybody's had it in our models  if they have it's out past towards the end of the decade  but you are seeing some small LNG projects being approved wood fibre et cetera.
Those actually as we look forward could be quite helpful.
Early days still but quite helpful to tease out a component of West Coast system et cetera so beyond the dollars we've put in to help out Western Canada in terms of the projects this year call it almost $1 billion I think some of these small LNG projects could lead to additional pipeline opportunities again on a cost-of-service basis.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Those would be helpful.
Last question in your Drive to 35 slide on the development side you continue to have exports to Mexico in there.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> CFE has a number of RFPs underway currently for pipelines in the northern part of Mexico there.
Are you part of that process? What are you plans? Where are you in the Mexican exports? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Paul obviously I can only  I have to follow whatever the requirements are from a legal perspective of confidentiality but as you know our pipeline goes to the border and we have some stations just over the border.
And we have expressed interest in the past to participate.
And so I will leave it at that other than to say the judgment there is simply a risk and reward.
We have a lot of things going on in this part of  in the United States a lot of things in Canada.
If the risk and reward are similar in Mexico you can expect us to be aggressive to look at those opportunities as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Paul.
Our next question comes from the line of Christine Cho of Barclays.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Christine.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning.
Can you guys provide us an update on the tax situation for 2016 and 2017? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't think we're going to put out 2016 2017 here.
I guess I can  the only thing I would say is that as you know we were at 1.2 coverage at the FC (45:20) level and that was with a low cash tax in 2015.
And we did not assume that in 2016 2017.
We'll get a good view here in the next month from the federal government.
I believe and I could get this wrong but I believe both separate committees in the Senate and the House have passed bills that would see the extension of bonus depreciation one I think in the case of two years and one on a permanent basis.
So obviously that would have a very significant impact for us in a positive basis with respect to 2016.
When we laid out the plans last year we did not assume that and that probably runs $200 million plus in terms of a benefit Christine.
So obviously we're watching that closely and are optimistic that that in fact could be the case.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then for Access Northeast you know you guys talk about getting Massachusetts approval and I think that's the biggest customer base.
What's number two and number three? And do you have any regulatory updates in those states? And is the PUC approval the biggest roadblock? U.S.
Transmission</span></strong> Yeah you know it's Bill Yardley.
I would say Massachusetts and Connecticut  Connecticut is probably second in terms of sheer volume and then you get to Rhode Island Maine New Hampshire and lastly Vermont.
Our opinion is that these are moving really nicely as we've said and that  I would say that Connecticut probably has  sorry.
Connecticut probably has the process that might take the longest because they're going through a statewide process but they've shown the ability to really speed that up so they could be finished by early next year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Lastly this is just kind of a macro question not necessarily about your assets but maybe just Marcellus build out in general.
We're seeing some massive dry Utica wells and if this continues I would think natural gas prices stay lower for longer possibly pricing out some producers who might not have that exposure? So maybe it becomes less producers each with more market share now.
I would think some of the producers are not going to make it especially given leverage and balance sheet issues.
At what point should we be worried about some of the counter parties on all the pipelines that are currently being developed to get out of the region? I understand a lot of your buildout is underpinned by utilities but there is an element of supply-push out of the region.
So I would be curious as to your thoughts and maybe some insight into the landscape out there? Are there outs for some of these producers if the pipeline hasn't broken ground yet? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well not on our pipelines.
So if we've signed contracts they are typically only subject to our board approvals and the stuff we have in execution has those board approvals so there aren't those outs.
I'd say as a macro perspective and maybe I'm just parroting  maybe even want to see some out of some of that credit analyst the fixed income analysts Christine.
I think next spring is a pretty interesting time period for a lot of producers as hedges come off and credit facilities come due and the banks figure out what they're going to do.
I guess I feel okay about that.
Again as you point out 75% of our projects in execution are demand-pull and low prices  producers don't like it but the demand side sure loves it so that's a positive side of things.
And as Pat said 90% of our customers are investment-grade or secured.
I think if you looked at the U.S.
side of things the top 10 customers which are investment-grade except for one would account for 50% of the revenue that we have and in Canada the same type of thing in all of those top 10 which account for 50% of revenue would be investment grade.
So I feel pretty good where we are.
But I think next spring is the time to kind of watch things but I would also say just like we see at DCP and other places and you've seen with a variety of producers talking about it this week and last week boy they're ripping out costs right left and center and so you're seeing some pretty dramatic drops and what you wouldn't have thought was possible a year ago is so never underestimate the ability of necessity being the motherhood of invention here.
Inc.</span></strong> But I guess just to follow-up on that let's say a pipeline is primarily supply-push.
Could it be possible that if some of the producers are having difficulties that that project might not go? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I guess that's a possibility.
I'd think the issue would be  so let's look at one realistically since it's already in service which in retrospect I think may be a good look.
So let's look at New Jersey and New York.
So you're talking about probably the pipeline that's delivering to until recently the most expensive place to get gas  now that's New England.
And too the big backers of that pipeline Statoil and Chesapeake but  so you could say okay well Statoil very solid; Chesapeake's not investment-grade today but where they are delivering that gas is absolutely the  probably the most profitable piece of capacity that they own.
So I think you can't look at it just who's the backing but where is it going.
And if you do not have first-mile and last-mile advantage even if you've got contracts I think you can have some challenges with your supply push producers.
If you've got that last-mile advantage that's going to be the most important project and/or capacity that they will hold.
So I don't think you can look at it just solely on who's backing the project.
Where is it going and where it is going is that demand market a premium demand market.
That's the real value that supply push players will look for even in a down market.
And Christine this is Pat.
One other thing we've already seen and perhaps could see more of if prices stay where they are is that producers that have credit issues sell assets from basins to raise cash.
And in many cases you see a stronger producer come in and acquire those assets.
So we've actually seen already some upgrade in our counterparty profile in the basins you talked about.
And I think there's potential for more of that.
So that's maybe an unintended consequence but in some cases we get a counterparty credit upgrade as a result.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Now given your presence your insights are valuable.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Sighinolfi of Jefferies.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Chris.
Hey.
Good morning Greg.
How are you? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good.
How are you doing? I'm great.
Thanks for the color this morning.
I guess my questions are more for Pat I think.
I'm just curious about the impact of lost cash flows given the asset maturity DCP of Sand Hills and Southern Hills and the unit cancellation in (52:37).
Just wondering how we think about that impact on SEP's leverage on SE's leverage and then in terms of your reiterated longer-term dividend guidance the distribution payment loss from the MLP.
I'm just wondering how you'd instruct us to think about those things.
Are you going to lean a little bit more heavily on the ATM perhaps next year at the SEP level? And then how do we think about the leverage targets in general? Well maybe starting with SEP the way the math works is SEP is really indifferent to the removal or unaffected by it because we've surrendered LP units.
We have a limited-term give back of our GP interest.
And so as we look pro forma on the effect at SEP it's neutral.
And of course that had to be the case to get the special committee to sign off on it.
So don't see any pressure at all on SEP.
If anything it's perhaps slightly positive as we modeled it.
So I don't think it changes at all the credit profile at SEP or how we'll fund growth there for the U.S.
portion of our CapEx.
At SE in consolidation there is a small reduction obviously from the surrender of units and the GP giveback.
But given where we are in the IDRs it's not the full amount of the EBITDA that was transferred to DCP.
And ironically given the strong benefit to DCP of what we did and what our partner did matching with cash I believe we'll be in a situation to see cash distributions resume at DCP much earlier than they might have otherwise in which case we'll get half back if you think about it that way of the contribution that we made.
So net-net for a company up top that has $3 billion of EBITDA a very small impact and no effect on SE's outlook for capital or credit.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think the other thing Chris is that as the year's gone on from what we laid out to people and I think you saw it in our press release we were looking at 1.0 coverage for SEP next couple of years.
I think as we said in our press release we could see it in that range of 1.05 to 1.15 which I think tells you that again while plans are still being put together SEP has added incremental projects and therefore results for EBITDA going forward.
Obviously that comes to SE as well so that's obviously a positive from a credit perspective.
Interest expense is staying lower longer.
That's obviously positive.
And frankly we've done better from a maintenance capital perspective moving some stuff into 2015 and that's obviously going to help us because maintenance programs typically be multi-year projects in many respects.
And so moving some stuff into 2015 given the results we have actually are helpful in 2016 2017 that too is also credit enhancing.
So we like the investment-grade obviously committed to the investment-grade and I think we're doing things consistent with that.
Yeah I think our debt to EBITDA at SEP is only 3.4 times and we're targeting to be at 4 or below so in very good shape there consistent with our investment-grade rating and don't see that changing.
We're still out looking 1.1 coverage at the end of the year but not changing that forecast but I think it's possible we could do a little bit better than that at year-end.
I guess that was the element of the metric Pat I was targeting was more the debt to EBITDA the fact.
I get it from a distributable cash flow perspective and what the distributions were forecast to be previously and then with the unit cancellation what the savings will be for SEP.
I get the make-whole on that regard.
I guess what I was targeting is if I think about it from a debt to EBITDA perspective there was no change in the debt load but there was a change in the EBITDA associated with those pipelines so that was really what I was targeting.
I realize you're well below your target.
So are we just to think that that's going to be from an equity perspective a similar process as what you're thinking before and maybe we drift a touch higher? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah it's pretty de minimis at...
The other thing at SEP that sometimes people don't think about is that there was growth CapEx associated with those investments new pump stations and things like that that we're not going to be funding.
So while EBITDA comes down a tad so does the need to finance growth.
And so debt to EBITDA it really doesn't move the needle.
Okay.
That's great.
I just wanted to confirm that.
And then as you think about some of the project inventory backlog a bit different take on Christine's question.
If you think about counter parties in certain regions that maybe were part of the discussion are you seeing as pressure maybe builds on them any change in appetite or any mix shift in terms of who's interested in some of the projects that are still in the development phase? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think Chris as I mentioned obviously conversations on the demand-pull side are very rapid and of great interest.
Conversations on the supply-push side are slower and more cautious perhaps less so on the gas side today definitely on the oil side.
That's a very difficult discussion to have right now as people are just not certain where prices are going.
We didn't have a whole lot in fact very little in the way of oil projects until the end of the decade and that infrastructure is still going to be needed.
So yeah you see it on the supply side on the gas side but more so on the oil side but again I'd go to where they're going to put their dollars when they have to for capacity is going to be with people like Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners who can get their product to the demand market.
So again and you've heard us talk about this for years.
First-mile last-mile advantage is critical.
Lots of people seem to have a first-mile advantage from a supply perspective but not having the last-mile advantage you're going to have a tough time filling up your pipes and if you did contracts with short-term 10 years or less that's the folks I'd be watching at.
That's not what we did and those are going to be tougher positions to find yourself in if you do not go to that last market.
I think the supply push the producers are going to be looking for those type of contracts and saying it's not really taking me to a premium market.
Do I need to re-up or do I need to even continue forward with that type of contract? Okay.
Thanks a lot for the call.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Shneur Gershuni of UBS.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Shneur.
Good morning.
How are you guys? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good.
Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
There's been a lot of questions that have been asked that I was interested in but you've put together a string of a couple of good quarters where you've exceeded expectations.
I was wondering if we can sort of talk about OpEx costs a little bit.
With you adding projects hard to parse the trends but we've seen some others where we've seen some OpEx cost come in.
Is that an opportunity for SEP and SE on a go-forward basis? Could you see yourselves stripping out $80 million to $100 million worth of costs as you look forward over the next year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we're always looking at that.
I would say when you're adding $10 billion to your projects or to your overall base it's going to be hard to see that number go down but it doesn't go proportionally up.
And in some parts of our business you've seen us take out costs in Western Canada obviously we've taken out costs in DCP.
But I would say I wouldn't look for a big reduction on the SEP side of things or say Union Gas where you're seeing big builds.
So now it doesn't proportionally rise but Shneur it's hard for me to imagine  we're always careful you know you're always careful on wages and stuff and making sure that they stick with inflation but we've gotten about $100 million of costs out of DCP and Western Canada given the environment there but I don't see that happening on the U.S.
side of things.
We're building stuff (a); (b) we're very focused on reliability.
It's a license to build and operate.
What I can assure you is wherever we can take out costs and where we're looking at things things like procurement obviously a big issue  that's going to pay the biggest dividends to investors.
You know everything we can to get a dollar off the price of steel or construction that's forever return for Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners.
So again always looking at costs.
If we can  whatever we can take out we can.
Our cost increases from an O&amp;M perspective stay well below the rate of inflation.
Cool.
And just to follow up on that I think that you had mentioned to Faisel in his earlier questions on the capital side that you're not seeing much of an improvement there.
When we sort of think about the cost of steel which has been down a lot versus the cost of constructing is it fair to assume that that is really a small portion of the costs and it's really more about trying to get through some of these highly dense neighborhoods? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Exactly.
So Sabal's a great example.
I don't have the numbers right at my fingertips but we definitely are doing better on the steel costs.
We locked in the steel costs around Sabal but I wouldn't say we're changing the project costs because to your point re-routes land issues construction big spreads the amount of construction being done in the industry in 2016 2017 2018 don't lend to what is 70% of so of the costs i.e.
engineering design construction.
Okay.
And just two quick follow-ups Empress benefiting from hedges.
How does it look going forward when we think about 2016 and 2017? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So obviously prices are a little lower about 50% hedged for next year.
And I think we're probably 15% or 20% hedged for the following year.
So we've got some work to do there but as you know we've made that a much smaller element so we're still very much focused on kind of $30 million in cash being generated there.
So feel good about that; of course just to put that in context that's 1% of the overall company right.
Yep.
No absolutely.
And then finally M&amp;A you really sort of chat about it with a lot more fervor last quarter.
Is the interest still at that high level? And is there any areas of interest that you're targeting? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well again I'm not sure my interest's any different than it was a quarter ago.
Maybe the market's actually showing some things that could be of interest to us.
No I wouldn't say it's any different and I'd reiterate we don't need to do anything.
That's the positive side.
But you would expect us as a good management team to be watching for opportunities where folks have some particular weakness that we think is temporal and we can take advantage of where we are.
But again the base case is steady as she goes put the projects into service like we've been doing.
$10 billion of projects keep adding to the dividend steady steady SEP SE.
That I think will be rewarded by investors; in fact I know it will be rewarded by investors.
And that is the prime focus.
But as you've seen throughout our history when there's some restructuring or M&amp;A that's going to make a whole lot of sense then that's something we'll obviously look at.
And I would say don't look for us to do anything outside the norm.
If we ever did anything we're a pipeline player and we're a North American player.
And so I wouldn't look for us to do anything different than that.
Great.
Thank you very much guys.
Really appreciate it.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Julie Dill for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Maria.
And thanks to everyone for joining us this morning.
As always Roni Cappadonna and myself are available for questions.
So have a good and safe day and we'll look forward to seeing many of you soon.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good morning.
My name is Blair and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to Spectra Energy's Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question and answer session.
Thank you.
Julie Dill Chief Communications Officer you may begin your conference.
Great.
Thank you Blair and good morning everyone.
Thanks so much for joining us today for our review of Spectra Energy's and Spectra Energy Partners' 2015 fourth quarter results.
With me today are Greg Ebel CEO of both Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners; and Pat Reddy our Chief Financial Officer of both companies.
Pat will go through our results for the quarter and the year and then Greg will wrap things up with some closing thoughts on 2015.
As always we'll leave plenty of time for your questions related to our 2015 results following Greg's remarks.
Our Safe Harbor statement is contained within our presentation materials and available on our websites.
This disclaimer is important and integral to all our remarks.
So I would ask that you refer to it as you review our materials.
Also contained in our presentation materials are non-GAAP measures that we reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and those reconciliations are also available on our website.
So with that let me turn things over to Pat.
Cool.
Thanks Julie.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
As you saw in our earnings release this morning both Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners had a very solid finish to 2015 due in large part to the strength of our U.S.
Transmission business.
Our 2015 performance sets us up well as we move into 2016.
Considering the declining economic and energy industry conditions last year the success we had in 2015 reflects some key attributes of our business.
We again demonstrated an ability to manage through various business and market cycles because of our diversified portfolio strong balance sheet and disciplined business model.
The steps we took in 2015 to reduce our costs secure contracts execute on our expansion plans and solidify our financial position provide us with the strong platform for continued momentum.
You'll hear more about that when we review our new three-year plan with you tomorrow.
Before I get into the details of the quarterly results I want to discuss some special items we recorded which lowered reported net income for the quarter by $452 million or $0.67 per share.
These items were driven largely by non-cash goodwill and asset impairments as a result of the continuing low commodity price environment.
You can see on this slide that the total cash effect of the special items is only $7 million.
For the year special items affected net income by $579 million or $0.86 per share with the cash effect of $18 million.
So let's move to our ongoing EBITDA results beginning with SEP.
Spectra Energy Partners' ongoing EBITDA for the quarter was $457 million which was $33 million higher than the same quarter last year and ongoing EBITDA at Spectra Energy was $672 million compared to $810 million in the prior year quarter.
Turning to the drivers of our ongoing results by segment let's start with Spectra Energy Partners where EBITDA was up 9% quarter-over-quarter.
As you know SEP consists of our U.S.
Transmission and Liquids businesses and is shown in the upper right-hand corner of slide five.
U.S.
Transmission delivered EBITDA of $413 million up $44 million over last year.
These results were driven primarily by increased earnings from expansion projects placed into service and in execution.
Projects including OPEN Uniontown to Gas City Kingsport and TEAM 2014 as well as our Sabal Trail NEXUS and AIM projects.
The liquids business reported fourth quarter EBITDA of $62 million compared with $71 million in the prior year quarter.
This decrease is the result of lower equity earnings from the Sand Hills and Southern Hills natural gas liquids pipelines that SEP owned for only one month of the quarter.
Let's move now to our Canadian business segments which are shown on the left-hand side of the slide.
For the quarter the Canadian dollar was about 18% lower than the previous year's quarter.
As a result the FX effect on EBITDA for our Canadian business segment this quarter compared to the same quarter last year was $20 million at Distribution and $22 million at Western Canada.
As a reminder about two-thirds of our currency exposure on earnings in Canada is naturally hedged with the net income level on an annual basis.
For the quarter the change in net income from controlling interest related to FX was $6 million.
Distribution reported fourth quarter EBITDA results of $113 million compared with $132 million in 2014.
While there were a number of pluses and minuses in the quarter including 20% warmer weather the decrease quarter-over-quarter was essentially all driven by the lower Canadian dollar.
Western Canada reported ongoing EBITDA of $123 million compared with $250 million in the prior-year quarter.
The decrease in ongoing EBITDA quarter-over-quarter is due to lower earnings at Empress and the effect of the lower Canadian dollar.
You may recall last year's results at Empress included a significant non-cash mark-to-market gain associated with our risk management program.
The change in the unrealized mark-to-market value in the fourth quarter of 2015 was a negative $90 million.
As we mentioned in last year's call we expected there would be some accounting noise in 2015 as the hedges rolled off and commodity prices moved but cash would be realized as the contract settled.
Importantly for the year Empress generated cash of $52 million well above our expectation of $30 million and cash of course is what we're focused on.
Moving on to DCP.
You'll recall that we show here as Spectra Energy's EBITDA from Field Services is actually our 50% share of DCP's net income plus any gains from DPM unit issuances.
For the quarter we reported ongoing EBITDA from Field Services of negative $36 million compared with negative $18 million last year.
The decrease on ongoing earnings is primarily driven by further declines in commodity prices.
These decreases were partially offset by asset growth improved operating efficiencies and other initiatives including recontracting for more fee-based revenues as well as an increase in the ownership interest of the Sand Hills and Southern Hills NGL pipelines for two months of the quarter.
It's important to note that even in this low-commodity price environment DCP standalone adjusted EBITDA was considerable at almost $725 million for the full year 2015.
Let's turn now to our Distributable Cash Flow schedules beginning with SEP on slide 6.
SEP's standalone Distributable Cash Flow was $260 million for the quarter compared to the prior year quarter of $245 million.
SEP ended the year with DCF of $1.2 billion and strong distribution coverage of 1.2 times exceeding our original expectation of 1.1 times.
SEP's strong DCF results for the year were driven by a 14.7% increase in ongoing EBITDA which was slightly offset by higher maintenance capital expense compared to the prior year.
Let's move now to Spectra Energy's DCF as shown on slide seven.
At Spectra Energy ongoing Distributable Cash Flow was $201 million for the quarter compared with $316 million last year.
Ongoing DCF for the year was $1.3 billion with strong dividend coverage of 1.3 times exceeding our original plan expectations of 1.2 times a significant accomplishment given the backdrop of the current environment and further demonstrating the power of our portfolio.
Our EBITDA was lower year-over-year as a result of lower commodity prices and the effect of a lower Canadian dollar.
That decrease was partially offset by reduced maintenance capital expenditures and interest expense both of which benefited from the lower Canadian dollar.
Greg is going to highlight our key successes for the year but from a financial perspective I'll note that we've performed very well during the year.
Specifically we exceeded our DCF coverages at both Spectra Energy and at SEP.
We have solid balance sheets at both Spectra Energy and SEP as well as stable to improving investment-grade credit metrics.
You may have noticed in mid-December that one of the rating agencies improved Spectra Energy's outlook moving us from negative to stable.
This action was a significant achievement in this environment.
More than 90% of Spectra Energy's revenues and 95% of SEP's revenues are contracted with customers who are investment-grade or equivalent or are secured by collateral primarily letters of credit.
Furthermore the 90% figure for Spectra Energy excludes about $1 billion in revenue from Union Gas' residential cost of service customers with virtually no bad debt expense.
Including these customers boosts the portion of Spectra Energy's revenues from investment-grade customers to 92%.
We have multiple ways to finance our Drive to 35 and we utilized a number of those vehicles with great success all the way through December.
With the majority of our growth CapEx occurring at SEP we utilized our at-the-market equity program and raised about $550 million of equity at SEP last year with nearly $200 million raised in the fourth quarter.
Given the continued success of this program we filed a new multi-year shelf registration in December to upsize the ATM program to $1 billion.
We also had several successful debt issuances during the year.
We issued $1 billion of incremental senior unsecured notes at SEP in the first quarter of the year.
In the third quarter we refinanced maturing debt and upsized the issuance for a total of CAD 450 million at Union Gas and we refinanced $800 million of existing senior unsecured debt at Gulfstream.
In December Westcoast Energy refinanced CAD 350 million of Canadian debt and we successfully reentered the preferred share market with CAD 115 million issuance at Westcoast Energy in late November.
All of these issuances were completed at very favorable rates.
Lastly we have significant liquidity available across the company of $2.8 billion as of December 31.
This financial flexibility gives us confidence in our continued capacity to successfully fund our growth projects in an effective and efficient manner.
My point is in this time of difficult capital markets we continue to have the financial flexibility and access to capital to successfully fund our growth.
I'm pleased with what we accomplished in 2015 and I look forward to talking with you tomorrow about our outlook for the next three years.
So with that let me turn things over to Greg.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well thanks very much Pat and good job fighting through that cold.
I'm sure tomorrow you'll be in fine form after a little bit of bourbon maybe tonight.
But welcome everybody on the phone.
And I too like Pat am pleased with our 2015 performance and really continuing that consistent record of executing on growth opportunities that not only drive earnings but also cash flow now and well into the future.
We're going to keep things pretty brief this morning since we'll be talking to you tomorrow about our new three-year plan.
But I think it's valuable to take a couple of minutes to reflect on 2015.
Last year we told you that we'd deliver real results through this real world cycle and we did that.
Our ability to do what we say and what  in terms of what we'll say and what we'll do especially in a year with deteriorating economic and energy industry conditions like 2015 further highlights the strong fundamentals of our underlying businesses in the first and last mile advantage of our asset footprint.
As we look back on the year one where NGL and crude prices were about 20% lower than what we had originally forecast where natural gas prices were 25% or so lower than what we expected and where the Canadian dollar was more than 10% lower than what we budgeted Spectra Energy was still within 3% of our original EBITDA forecasts.
I think that's quite a result but it really shouldn't be surprising because I think it reflects the strength of our resilient portfolio through the cycles as well as the natural hedges we have across our broad spectrum of businesses and geographies.
Our businesses in SEP are not affected by near-term changes in currency or commodity.
And for the other business segments we have natural offsets to variables like currency changes through interest expense and maintenance capital.
Of course we also took a number of cost management steps throughout the year totaling about $150 million across Spectra Energy's entities to help position us for the changing environment in 2016 and beyond.
We said we'd deliver strong DCF in dividend and distribution coverage at both Spectra Energy and SEP and we did and exceeded our original expectations.
We beat our DCF outlook by 7% at Spectra Energy and by more than 8.5% at SEP.
And we beat our coverage targets for both Spectra Energy and SEP and ended the year with coverage ratios of 1.3 times and 1.2 times respectively.
We said we'd continue to successfully execute on our 2015 growth plan and we were able to do that.
Along with the other projects we placed into service during the year we brought the greenfield portion of OPEN into service in the fourth quarter as well as the 2015 Dawn-Parkway project was placed into service ahead of schedule again really demonstrating our project execution advantage.
We said we'd continue to move additional projects into execution and we did that adding another $600 million expansions of our Dawn to Parkway system and about $1.2 billion of projects on our cost of service BC Pipeline in Western Canada; including another $150 million pipeline expansion in the Montney region put into execution in the fourth quarter the Wyndwood project.
You'll hear more about that project tomorrow from Mark Fiedorek.
We said we'd strengthen DCP's structure and optimize the value at DCP Midstream and we were able to do that as well.
Between actions taken by the parents as well as a number of self-help initiatives DCP has achieved a one-third improvement in its cash breakeven NGL price.
DCP is stronger today as a result of those actions.
We said we'd maintain our investment-grade ratings and as you heard from Pat we did that.
We said we'd increase our annual dividend at Spectra Energy by $0.14 per share and our quarterly distributions at SEP by $0.0125 per unit and we did that.
And just this morning we announced our 33rd consecutive quarterly distribution increase at SEP.
As a matter of record we've increased our distributions every single quarter since SEP's inception.
We said we'd operate reliably to meet our customers' needs and we were able to do that achieving record deliveries on our major pipeline systems: Texas Eastern Algonquin Union's Dawn-Parkway system and T-South in Western Canada.
This is another indication that our customers use and value capacity on our pipes on the days they need it most.
You've often heard me speak of the key attributes of Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners that position us for success now and in the future.
Our premium (16:58) asset positioning and connectivity that takes us where the lights are; safe reliable operations; responsible development of new projects; strong earnings growth and cash flows; and attractive reliable dividend and distribution increases for investors throughout all market cycles.
Investors in Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners don't have to choose between growth and strong coverage.
They get them both and they get them now.
2015 has positioned us well as we move into the new year and our team is looking forward to speaking tomorrow about our very positive 2016 to 2018 plan and our ability to continue to navigate through the energy and economic environment we're in while also continuing to meet or exceed the commitments we've already made to investors.
So with that we'll be happy to take your answers on our quarter and year-end results.
Your first question comes from the line of Darren Horowitz from Raymond James.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Darren.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
Just two quick questions for me since I know we're going into a lot of detail tomorrow.
But the first with regard to the earnings in Western Canada when you consider the variance between as you mentioned Pat Empress relative to the Canadian dollar and some commodity price fluctuations as well as that risk management program and maybe additional mark-to-market was there anything within the quarter just in terms of the composition of the variance that was surprising relative to what you had budgeted? Well I think Darren this is Pat.
We don't budget mark-to-market but there was really nothing fundamentally in the business.
I will tell you that we had a very large mark-to-market change $90 million in the quarter.
And what that reflected was we had a gain in the fourth quarter of last year of about $80 million and that turned to a loss of $10 million so a swing of $90 million year-over-year.
And that's obviously not cash; we did generate $52 million at Empress versus our $30 million bogey.
So that's one that at the EBITDA line even we just can't predict where the market's going to go.
And then the Canadian dollar the effect there was $22 million.
So there's really nothing in the operation I don't think Greg that came through.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Darren a year or maybe probably a couple of years ago we said we kind of target that $30 million.
I know the accountants will hate this the $30 million cash EBITDA but that's really what we're trying to do to make sure that there's little variability in the cash that we actually generate from Empress even though you may see mark-to-market moves up or down.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Yeah that makes sense that's the most important.
Final question for me and let me apologize in advance I know you're going to go through when you discuss in detail the three-year plan tomorrow.
But Pat since you mentioned it specifically on slide eight and you were talking about liquidity and the various different options when you reconcile the $9.5 billion of expansion projects that you have in execution and you consider the volatility in the market and maybe across the different financing options fluctuations in cost of capital has there anything changed with regard to how you might balance let's just say additional ATM issuances at SEP versus possibly incremental senior debt or utilizing a revolver or maybe even replicating the success that you had with an additional preferred issuance? Well Darren you've covered on most of the levers that we have available to us which is what we like about our position between our liquidity our ability to issue in Canada and the U.S.
and you will hear a lot more about it tomorrow.
But most of the growth CapEx that we have in 2016 is at projects that are at Spectra Energy Partners.
We have upsized our ATM so we have plenty of headroom there.
We had $200 million that we issued in the fourth quarter going right up till the end of the year and  when we had to shut it down as we went into earnings and we had strong reverse inquiry interest in that program.
And so I think our financing needs are very doable next year most of it being concentrated at SEP but we will get into more detail on that tomorrow.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Brandon Blossman from Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Brandon.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> I guess one real quick bookkeeping item.
OPEN and Dawn-Parkway was that a full quarter of contribution from an EBITDA perspective for the fourth quarter? No.
So typically the Union projects kick in the 1st of November and OPEN was basically the 1st of November as well.
And almost always Brandon  sometimes we come in early with projects but almost always our capital projects come in the 1st of November.
So you only get a couple of months the first year that they come into service.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And related and I'm guessing we'll hear more about this tomorrow but AIM timing in the back half of 2016 any updates there? Bang on target.
As you know that was a two-season build and we got through our first season build and expect a November 1 startup as we originally predicted when we put this project into execution a couple of years back.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Perfect all right.
Greg and I almost hate to ask this question but as your equities hang in there quite nicely relative to the rest of the market any incremental or updated thoughts on M&amp;A for you guys? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
I mean look I think that you see a variety of people having some challenges now.
I guess I look at us and I still don't see anybody saying they're willing to sell at prices maybe they should sell at and we continue to build at  in all our U.S.
projects at 6 times to 8 times EBITDA.
So that seems to be the better process at this point in time.
But we're always looking at some point in time there may be some folks that see a value in an entity like Spectra and value in currency like Spectra.
But at this point in time we're going to continue with our organic growth and drive forward with our growth on that basis.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> All right good enough.
Thank you for that.
That's all from me.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
And your next question comes from the line of Paul Lechem from CIBC.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Paul.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Just on Western Canada a little bit more if I can.
Even taking into account the change in mark-to-market and the FX it was still down about 10% in terms of EBITDA so just trying to understand the variance there.
Can you go through the volumes what volume exposure you have there? And then also as a second related question in the quarter Keyera shut down their Caribou gas plant specifically mentioning your Station 2 pricing was one of the issues that caused production to be shut in.
So I'm just trying to square that away with the High Pine and Wyndwood projects and sort of fueling (24:36) growth elsewhere.
So I'm just trying to understand the dynamics that you're seeing and where you have volume exposure there.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Right.
So remember our G&amp;P business very different than the United States so our G&amp;P business in Canada is a fee-based business that doesn't have volume risk.
Now you have shorter contracts life there.
I think our average contract life runs around five years in Western Canada on G&amp;P.
So I can't speak to Keyera.
So we really didn't see a decline there.
You didn't have as many volumes going through some of your plants you're still getting  you're getting paid.
And remember the projects projects like Wyndwood which you'll hear about tomorrow pipeline projects so very much to your Station #2 issue people want to get gas to other markets.
And so I think where you see growth in Western Canada and you'll hear about this and the stuff that we've put into execution in 2015 is very much related to pipeline projects which are cost of service right? So I think that's why maybe some other folks in Western Canada see a little difference.
Our pipeline throughput in Western Canada was off by less than 5% versus the prior year.
So even with low price I think that speaks to the utilization of the pipeline.
And in fact this is the first time I think in 10 years we've been fully contracted for.
So really the G&amp;P revenues and basically in line with what we expected were only down about $11 million quarter-on-quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Perfect.
Thanks Greg.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeremy Tonet from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Congratulations on a strong year.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Jeremy.
Thanks.
I was just wondering looking at NEXUS if you could remind us exactly how full the contracted volumes are there and where you're looking to get that.
And we've seen some other projects in midstream where competing projects have come together to create kind of a one combined project.
And is there any appetite or thoughts on doing that for NEXUS or any other project? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well good to hear a question on NEXUS.
We're about two-thirds contracted on NEXUS and really importantly both in the quarter but from a macro perspective a significant portion of that two-thirds is with utilities so Union Gas and Enbridge Distribution.
And in fact the regulators as you probably  well I hope you know in the fourth quarter approved those contracts.
So I think some of the things you're seeing in some other projects are basically entirely underwritten by E&amp;P players.
So I think the strength of our project is that not only are we serving a demand market we have approved contracts from regulated entities taking that away.
So now that being said I mean I think our project as you know we typically put out realistic timeframes et cetera.
I guess if somebody wanted to join our project I'm always open for that.
Something we've been able to do in the last year is beyond the existing contracts we have we've had requests for and signed up deals for 1.4 Bcf of interconnects along the NEXUS Pipeline.
And you're going to get a good feel from that from Bill Yardley tomorrow.
So Jeremy maybe wait for that slide tomorrow.
I think it'll really show the strength of NEXUS.
And I don't know maybe others would like to join that project if some projects are having problems.
Great.
Thanks for that color.
That's helpful.
And just on SEP I think you touched on it a little bit but the maintenance CapEx I think it was a little bit higher than what we were expecting.
Was that just timing kind of pulling some projects forward or anything else you can share there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think we're $20 million $25 million bucks higher in 2015 than what we originally had stated.
And indeed we did do some more work on the maintenance front some work in South Texas that had to be done that we got done this year and obviously that provides some benefits on a go-forward basis as well Jeremy.
Great.
Thanks for that.
And then just one last one if I could on SEP.
The unit count was a little bit higher than what we expected for quarter-end given the reduction post Sand Hills and Southern Hills.
And I know there was some draw on the ATM at that point.
Were there any other items in (29:26) right now? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No Jeremy.
I think as Pat said we issued about $200 million in units in the fourth quarter.
So I'm not sure what you had in your model but that maybe account for the delta.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for all that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
See you tomorrow.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Your next question comes from the line of Christine Cho from Barclays Capital.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi everyone.
I have two questions.
First in your presentations you guys always give out the financial covenant metrics for your debt.
But from a debt-to-EBITDA perspective at SE you're over 5 times and we've seen rating agencies be a little more aggressive with putting companies on negative review or outlook.
When I think about the composition of your assets your Canadian assets are regulated and I think that that composition in ratemaking is only 35% to 40% or something like that.
Do the rating agencies recognize that and take that into account? Can you give us some insight into how they look at SE and why you guys feel good about your ratings here? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think Christine you hit the nail on the head.
When you think about the size of our assets in Canada and they have typically a 65/35 debt-equity ratio.
By definition you're going to have a higher debt-to-EBITDA but you actually have lower risk on those assets.
You don't have cost risks within prudency.
You don't have capital growth risks within prudency obviously.
And as such I think the rating agencies and long (31:08)  I would say this has actually been synced up across the border now.
You have different groups for S&amp;P and Moody's and Fitch on both sides of the border have started to recognize that.
And you'd have to speak to them.
But I think that's part of their view on Spectra Energy.
That said I would expect that over the next few years and Pat will speak about this tomorrow that you will still see our debt to EBITDA metrics moderate over the coming years.
Our peak spend is 2016 as you'll see tomorrow and our debt-to-EBITDA comes nicely after that.
And to Greg's point when you think about our Canadian peers like in Enbridge or TransCanada their debt-to-EBITDA is around 7 times.
But because of the quality of regulation they're rated excellent from a business risk perspective.
And so I think we've had lots of discussions with the agencies about the fact that we're kind of unique.
We are a U.S.
C-Corp but 40% of our business comes from those Canadian fee-based and/or regulated activities.
So I do think we're getting recognition that as long as we're on a good glide path to get down to around 5 times in our planned period that we feel like that should be okay for a rating.
Inc.</span></strong> Right right.
Okay.
That was actually really helpful.
Thanks.
My other question actually is on the heels of Jeremy's question.
The maintenance CapEx at SEP looks like as you said it came in about $25 million above guidance.
But if I look at consolidated SE it looks like it was down despite the over-budget at SEP.
So that to me says the other segments were down in maintenance CapEx.
Is there any explanation there and should we think of that as kind of the new run rate? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Well here's the way you should think about it.
I mean this is off the top; maybe I didn't say it very artfully.
But Christine remember really important offsets to declines in EBITDA associated with Canadian dollars is the offset to the tune of two-thirds on the interest expense line and the maintenance capital? And we have actually a greater amount of maintenance capital in Canada.
So you actually see a decline in maintenance capital quarter-over-quarter very much related to the C$.
So I think last year the C$ was running in the call it C$1.15 C$1.20 range.
And this year it was probably running in the $1.40 range.
So it's EBITDA but equally hits our Canadian interest expense and maintenance and that's really the explanation for that delta.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay that's helpful.
If I was to adjust for the Canadian dollar is it about where it should have came in? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah very much so.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And tomorrow based on the assumptions we'll give you tomorrow on our view on the Canadian dollar obviously that will have some impact on that as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Nathan Judge.
Mr.
Judge please state your company.
Your line is open.
Hi.
It's Janney.
Good morning.
Just wanted to do a little bit of checking on the mark-to-market.
Could you just give us what the full-year mark-to-market gain or loss was for 2015? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah we can dig that up and if we don't have it  I think the whole mark was running around $50 million...
During the year.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> ...during the year.
And let me get that for you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> But Nathan if we don't have it right here we're happy to kind of get it for you offline.
Yeah.
Or tomorrow is fine.
Thank you very much.
I just...
Nathan the mark-to-market gain for the year ended 2015 was $108 million.
And is there any quarter-to-quarter variance? Do you happen to have quarters on that or I guess just a question as we look into the next couple of  in 2016 what would be the swing on that? Yeah.
We do look at that quarterly as the hedges roll off and we settle.
And so you get realizations and reverse losses and gains.
And so we do have that quarterly accounting that we can  I don't know Julie.
Focus on cash.
Yeah.
I mean we're really focused on the cash effects of it because who knows right how prices in the Canadian dollar are going to move in the future.
And one of the reasons we entered the hedging program for Empress was to be able to say we're going to deliver $30 million.
This year we did better but $30 million is our run rate of cash and not have to talk about the impact on Distributable Cash Flow.
So given the complexity of the accounting for it...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> But we will break it out in the quarters after the fact...
Yes.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> ...so that you know how much of the delta was down (36:09) so you can see the base business.
But from a forecasting perspective I think the $30 million is the way to look at it Nathan.
Great.
Very well.
Thank you much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
And the next question comes from the line of Chris Sighinolfi from Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Hey Greg.
How are you? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Chris.
Good.
How are you doing? I'm great.
I guess my first question is for Pat actually.
So Pat just a follow up to Nathan's question.
When we look at slide seven of your presentation materials (36:46) you have the Empress non-cash items.
Is that  what is included in that? Because I know you highlighted $14 million of Western Canadian items in the release but I'm assuming this also includes the mark-to-market.
So I hate to beat a dead horse I'm just trying to figure out how to parcel out those different components.
Okay.
So let me get the breakdown for you.
I don't have it right in front of me but that's something we can provide to you for the quarter.
Okay.
That would be helpful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think the $14 million in the release is related to the impairment in Western Canada.
So virtually all of it was goodwill but there was a $14 million impairment from an (37:28) perspective so...
Yeah.
We had some overhead costs that  some costs we incurred to affect the reductions.
So the $70 million in cost savings that we got at Southwest there were some costs to achieve that.
So they didn't belong in the goodwill or the asset impairment line but that's a different item.
Right.
So there was $7 million of sort of cash cost tethered to that and then $7 million of asset impairment which is non-cash.
And then I'm seeing...
That's right.
...$18 million non-cash here.
And it's just the difference between Western Canada and Empress knowing that Empress is included in Western Canada.
If maybe tomorrow if we can just talk about that just so I have it squared away on our model.
Okay.
I'm happy to do that.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
And then Greg you had mentioned I think in your prepared remarks that the cost reduction and efficiency efforts at DCP had lowered the breakeven NGL price for the business by about a third I think is what you said? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Right.
And I was just curious what sort of price point that translates into now? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
And we'll speak about this a little bit tomorrow and the third is a year-on-year and I think we're actually even getting better.
So if I went pre-2015 so if I went at the end of 2014 let's call it and these numbers will actually show it to you a little bit better the breakeven price was around $0.60 and where we are today is the mid-$0.30s.
In 2015 it was about down to $0.40 or so.
So it keeps going down.
You're going to hear a little bit about that from Bowder (39:08).
And obviously that's got to do with cost cuts that's got to do with a change in contract issues a whole variety of things that lead to that.
And in some respects maybe you shouldn't be too surprised because I think as you see across elements of people's companies that might have some commodity exposure and that's really the only one that we have that in fact people are finding different ways to make money at different prices right? So that's really where we've gone.
So think about $0.60 to $0.40 and then tomorrow you'll hear about how Bowder (39:40) and the DCP folks working with 66 and SE are bringing that down to low-to-mid $0.30s.
Okay.
Great.
Well I'll save the rest of my harassment for tomorrow.
Thanks so much guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We look forward to it.
Right.
Yeah Chris a quick answer on the non-cash fees for Empress.
We have the unrealized mark-to-market of $10 million and then half of that $14 million of special items that wasn't cash that's basically the $18 million add back.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thanks a lot for that Pat.
You're welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Nick Raza from Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks guys.
Apologies if someone already asked this.
But as a result of everything that's going on have you guys sort of seen any delays in the $8 billion of sort of projects that you have in execution right now and specifically any service delays? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
We have not.
In fact as you probably know if you look at our entire portfolio I think part of the reason for that is about 75% of our projects are demand pull.
So a lot of the delays you're probably picking maybe with some other players are because of their supply push.
In other words they're largely E&amp;P driven as opposed to consumer driven.
Obviously two ends of the pipe.
One end of the pipe not so happy with low prices.
The other end of the pipe the consumer pretty happy with it.
And at SEP the numbers are more like 80% are demand pull.
So if you think of our AIM projects Atlantic Bridge Sabal you probably saw yesterday I'm sure you'll picked it up that Sabal got its FERC approval yesterday and obviously that's another example that this project is motoring on and that's for Duke and NextEra and those folks are utilities.
So I think probably a little different customer base is why we continue to see us progressing with the projects that we have in execution.
And obviously the projects we have in execution are things that we have contracts for as well.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Fair enough.
That's all I had.
Thanks guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
And there are no further audio questions at this time.
I will now turn the call back over to the presenters.
Thank you Blair and thanks everyone for joining us on the call today.
We're really looking forward to seeing you or hearing from you tomorrow when we roll out our 2016 business outlook and our three-year financial plan during our Analyst and Investor Meeting.
So again for information on participating at that Investor meeting via the phone or Internet please visit the Investors section of either spectraenergy.com or spectraenergypartners.com.
As always if you have additional questions feel free to call Roni Cappadonna or me and we will look forward to seeing you very soon.
Thanks so much.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.