Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Sunstone Hotel Investors First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Friday May 6.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Bryan Giglia Senior Vice President of Corporate Finance of Sunstone Hotel Investors.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Britney and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
By now you should have all received a copy of our first quarter earnings release which was released yesterday after market closed.
If you do not have yet a copy you can access it on our website at www.sunstonehotels.com.
Before we begin this call I would like to remind everyone that this call contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties including those described in our prospectuses 10-Qs 10-Ks and other filings with the SEC which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
We caution you to consider those factors in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
We also note that this call may contain non-GAAP financial information including EBITDA adjusted EBITDA FFO adjusted FFO and Hotel EBITDA margins.
We are providing that information as a supplement to information prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
With us today are Ken Cruse President; John Arabia Chief Financial Officer; and Marc Hoffman Chief Operating Officer.
After our prepared remarks the team will be available to answer your questions.
I'd like to start today's presentation and turn it over to Ken.
Ken please go ahead.
Okay thank you Brian and thank you all for joining us.
I'll cover 5 topics today including: one our  first quarter performance; two outlook for the remainder of the year; three recent acquisitions and perspective on future external growth opportunities; four balance sheet objectives; and finally our team including the addition of Robert Springer as the Head of Acquisitions.
After that Marc will cover operational details and John will review finance details before I wrap up our prepared remarks and open up the call for questions.
I'll begin with our first quarter results.
Q1 was a somewhat messy quarter and while our performance was affected by a number of factors such as renovation the shift in portfolio seasonality and timing of acquisitions when you cut through the noise our fundamentals were very solid.
Pro forma RevPAR for our 33 Hotel portfolio increased 7.6%.
Renovation activities displaced approximately $1 million of revenue in the first quarter and also negatively impacted our margins by over 100 basis points.
Adjusting out our revenue properties our 33 Hotel portfolio generated pro forma margins of approximately 24.3% an improvement of 40 basis points over the prior year.
While our renovation efforts typically do result in some short-term revenue displacement we expect our program will drive significant long-term value creation and enhance growth potential for our portfolio.
Marc will go into more detail regarding our operating results in renovation activities in just a moment.
While our full year projections remain in line with Street consensus our Q1 adjusted FFO per share fell slightly short of Street consensus which clearly means we should have done a better job apprising the Street of our expected performance especially as adjusted for the moving parts that affected our quarter.
To avoid such disconnects going forward we have reinstituted guidance.
For the full year 2011 we expect the pro forma comparable RevPAR for our 33 Hotel portfolio to increase between 6% and 8% over 2010.
We expect our adjusted corporate-level EBITDA to come in between $204 million and $215 million and we expect our adjusted FFO per share to come in between $0.78 and $0.88.
For reference we believe the current consensus estimate is approximately $0.86 in FFO per share for the full year which falls within our guidance range.
To help investors understand the new seasonality of our portfolio we've also provided pro forma 2010 results with our 33 Hotel portfolio in our earnings release.
In a moment John will provide more detail on our full year and quarterly expectations as affected by seasonality acquisition time and renovations.
So let's move on to our recently completed acquisitions and dispositions as well as our external growth prospects.
Since our last business update call we completed all of the previously announced transactions including the acquisition of 75% interest in the 1 190-key Hilton San Diego the disposition of the Royal Palm and the insurance of $115 million of 8% Series D perpetual preferred equity.
Through these transactions we successfully recycled capital from a redevelopment project that would've required 2 years of cash outflows into a world-class hotel located adjacent to the San Diego Convention Center the Gaslamp District and Petco Park.
We are pleased with our recent acquisitions and the transformational effect that they have had on our portfolio quality and growth potential.
Furthermore we continue to see a number of attractive acquisitions targets.
That said we will remain highly disciplined in our acquisitions efforts going forward to ensure that external growth is achieved in a way that will be beneficial to our portfolio quality growth prospects and importantly our credit statistics.
With respect to our credit statistics our stated plan is to increase our financial flexibility and improve our credit metrics in a deliberate and measured way by driving improvements in operations by opportunistically paying down certain debt and by adding additional quality hotel to the portfolio on a credit-beneficial basis.
Our objectives are to reduce our debt-to-EBITDA to approximately 6.5x while improving our fixed charge coverage ratio to over 1.65x by mid-2012.
John will also provide greater detail on our balance sheet initiatives and liquidity later in the call.
While we believe that various transactions we've completed thus far this year will drive meaningful value our greatest potential driver of value is our team.
We have continued to complement our existing team of lodging industry professionals by selectively adding new talent.
And yesterday we announced that Robert Springer will join the team as Senior Vice President of Acquisitions.
Many of you on the call know Robert as he most recently served as Vice President at Goldman Sachs where he was a key player in the firm's Principal Lodging Investments business.
I have the pleasure of working with Robert at Host Hotels prior to joining Sunstone.
Robert will lead our external growth and capital recycling initiatives including sourcing underwriting and closing targeted single-asset and portfolio acquisitions as well as selective asset dispositions and capital initiatives.
With the addition of Robert we truly have a world-class team which includes some of the brightest professionals in our industry including John Arabia and Marc Hoffman Lindsay Monge our Head of Treasury and Administration Guy Lindsey our Head of Design and Construction and Bryan Giglia our Head of Corporate Finance.
We as a team are aligned and are focused on creating meaningful stockholder value and transforming Sunstone into the premier lodging REIT through consistent and disciplined execution of our balanced business plan.
I'll now turn the call over to Marc Hoffman to discuss our hotel operations in greater detail.
Please go ahead Marc.
Thank you Ken and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
All hotel information discussed today unless otherwise noted is for our 33 Hotel portfolio which includes all 2011 acquisitions The Doubletree Guest Suites Time Square the JW Marriott New Orleans the Hilton San Diego and excludes the Royal Palm which was sold in April.
Pro forma RevPAR increased 7.6% in the first quarter comprised largely of a 5.8% increase in average room rates.
Our ADR growth was a result of increases in premium corporate and leisure room revenue and a reduction of discount segments.
In this quarter 23 of our 33 hotels had positive RevPAR.
We see strength in many regions including the Northeast Midwest and Southern California regions.
On hotel-specific basis.
Our Hilton San Diego Doubletree Guest Suites Times Square Renaissance Orlando Del Mar Hilton Hyatt Newport Beach Kahler Grand Eugene Valley River Inn and Marriott Park City and Residence in Rochester all turned in double-digit RevPAR growth for the first quarter.
Looking forward in our Group business our current booking pace for 2011 is up 9.2% over 2010 levels.
The trend represents a 5% increase in occupancy and a 4% increase in rate as compared to last year.
During the quarter commercial transient demand replaced a slight decline in group room night production which helped drive room rates.
From a segmentation standpoint our 32 Hotel portfolio without the San Diego Hilton Group revenues were up over 3% driven by a 2.4% increase in group room nights.
Our transient room revenue was up 6% to last year with a 6% increase in ADR.
In the first quarter our revenues from our premium demand sources were very strong with revenues increasing 17% ADR increasing 9% and premium room nights increasing 8%.
In Q1 our corporate negotiated room night demand was also strong with this segment's room revenue increasing 12% with ADR increasing 4% and room nights increasing 8%.
Our operators continue to push out lower rated segments resulting in an 18% decline in discounted room nights while at the same time they increased the ADR of the discounted segment by 11%.
In general Sunstone continues to pursue its strategy of increasing room rates at the occasional expense of occupancy.
However this strategy has not been implemented in all markets and for all time periods.
Our asset managers are working closely with our hotel operators to maximize hotel revenues and profits through nimble rate and occupancy strategy shifts depending upon the market conditions.
Food and beverage sales were down slightly year-over-year as we saw a mix shift from a small decline in banquet sales per group room affected mostly by a decline in local catering and an increase in F&amp;B sales in restaurants and bars.
We expect a similar small decline in Q2 with banquet sales gaining solid strength over 2010 in Q3 and Q4.
During the first quarter 9 of our 33 hotels were impacted by renovation displacement which as Ken noted resulted in the displacement of roughly $1 million in total revenue during the first quarter which translates roughly into 50 to 80 basis points of displaced RevPAR growth in Q1 of 2011.
Our focus is to minimize all lost revenue and disruption and complete all renovations as quickly and as efficiently as possible.
Our design and construction team in close coordination with our asset managers and hotels have done an excellent job of keeping us on track and getting the renovations done on schedule and on budget.
As of this call we have completed the following projects on time during this year: Room renovations at the Embassy Suites Chicago Marriott Tysons Corner Marriott Boston Quincy Marriott Rochester Marriott Houston North Doubletree Minneapolis Marriott Courtyard LAX Sheraton Cerritos the Kahler Inn and Suites and 55 new upgraded executive rooms at the Kahler International.
The renovated rooms completed in this just past quarter represent nearly one quarter of our total portfolio’s rooms.
We completed lobby renovations and gastro bars at the Detroit Marriott Newport Beach Hyatt Rochester Marriott and new lobbies at Philly West Marriott Doubletree Minneapolis Kahler Inn and Suites along with fully renovated meeting spaces at the Philly West Marriott the Doubletree Minneapolis the Kahler Grand and the 27 meeting rooms in our Orlando resort.
Our remaining 2011 projects include the master plan renovation of the Marriott Long Wharf the renovation of our Houston Marriott lobby to be completed in mid-June Houston Hilton rooms and meeting spaces 64 suites and a new Family Splash Zone at our Orlando Renaissance to be completed in early June rooms at our Del Mar Marriott and the rooms at the lobby of the LAX courtyard.
These renovation projects are expected to displace $250 000 to $300 000 of total revenue in Q2.
Furthermore displaced revenues for the entire year are expected to reach no more than $1.5 million inclusive of the $1 million displacement in Q1.
We have already seen nice upside from the renovations at Tysons Corner Philly West Marriott and very positive strength at Marriott Houston.
Let me now turn to our operating margins.
Pro forma property-level EBITDA margins for the 33 hotels we currently own declined by roughly 40 bps 40 basis points while as Ken noted margins were up approximately 40 basis points when adjusted for impact of renovations.
This headline figure appears weaker than expected relative to our RevPAR increase of 7.6% but is the result of 2 issues.
First our largest hotel the Hilton San Diego negatively impacted our pro forma comparable margins to the final phasing of the hotels union agreement.
We took these higher operating costs into consideration when underwriting the hotel and therefore anticipated the reduction in hotel margins which we expect to be approximately 100 basis points in 2011.
Second the renovation disruption just discussed weighed on our first quarter margins as hotels with rooms out of service became less efficient and incurred additional costs and discounts.
During 2009 and 2010 our operators took out more than $12 million in costs throughout our portfolio.
We continue to work with all our operators to ensure that as RevPAR increases operating expenses do not creep back in unless significant occupancy increases justify higher cost and asset managers agree to those increases.
With that I'd like to turn the call to John to discuss our balance sheet financial initiatives.
John go ahead.
Thank you Marc.
Good morning everyone.
I would first like to express my enthusiasm to be here at Sunstone.
I've known and respected members of this management team and the Board for many years and I'm very confident that in working together we can continue to improve the company reduce risk and maximize our shareholder returns.
I'm also very excited to work directly with those of you on this call our investors and analysts in this new capacity.
This morning I'll give you an overview of several topics including: one our liquidity and access to capital; two our near-term debt maturities and obligations; three thoughts regarding our financial leverage and capital structure goals; four details regarding our earnings guidance; and finally thoughts regarding our disclosure practices.
Let's start with liquidity.
Sunstone ended the quarter with just over $214 million of cash including $153 million of unrestricted cash.
Subsequent to the end of the quarter we raised $111 million of net proceeds from the Series D perpetual preferred offering and received $40 million in gross proceeds from the sale of the Royal Palm resulting in an unrestricted cash balance of approximately $308 million.
We then utilized $181 million of our unrestricted cash to acquire the controlling interest of the Hilton San Diego which currently leaves us with roughly $125 million of unrestricted cash.
We intend to use a portion of our sizable cash balance say roughly $90 million to fund the anticipated refinancing shortfall on the $270 million Doubletree Times Square mortgage which matures in January 2012.
We expect to have this refinancing completed sometime near the beginning of the fourth quarter.
As of today Sunstone has $1.694 billion of consolidated debt which includes the 100% portion of the $240 million mortgage secured by the Hilton San Diego.
Adjusting for the debt attributed to our minority partners our pro forma debt balance is currently $1.634 billion.
Following the refinancing of the Doubletree Times Square Sunstone's near-term debt maturities and obligations will be very manageable.
In 2012 '13 and '14 our debt maturities totaled roughly $95 million which includes our only corporate debt to $63 million remaining exchangeable notes.
Furthermore our principal amortization totals another $80 million over those 3 years.
Collectively these obligations over the next 3 years represent less than 6% of the total private market value of our portfolio using various Wall Street analysts’ estimates of our net asset value.
In addition to our larger-than-normal cash position we have access to our untapped $150 million line of credit have 11 unencumbered hotels that collectively are expected to generate $34 million of EBITDA in 2011.
While we currently see no need to access these additional sources of capital they are available to us if we're to hit another bump in the road.
Let me now turn to our financial leverage.
It probably comes as no surprise to many of you that our current leverage level is higher than we would like it to be in the long term.
We as a management team are completely aligned in our goal to gradually and methodically reduce our leverage improve our financial flexibility and to reduce our cost of capital.
But let me make this perfectly clear.
Leverage reduction will not be immediate nor will it come at the expense of giving away our equity at prices below the intrinsic value of our portfolio.
Echoing Ken's earlier comments we will delever gradually through internal growth opportunistic debt repayments and highly equitized acquisitions but again only if the combined transactions add to the intrinsic value of our shares.
Given our current liquidity position our limited near-term debt maturities and our access to capital we will be patient on this front.
As Ken also mentioned earlier we have reinstituted our practice of providing full year earnings guidance.
For 2011 pro forma comparable RevPAR for our 33 Hotel portfolio is expected to increase 6% to 8%.
Under this assumption adjusted corporate-level EBITDA would be between $204 million and $215 million and FFO would be between $0.78 and $0.88 per share.
The current consensus estimate of $0.86 per share falls within our guidance despite the fact that our first quarter earnings came in below the consensus estimate due largely to the timing and seasonality of our recent acquisitions.
On a pro forma basis our 33 Hotel portfolio generated 22% of its full year 2010 EBITDA in the first quarter while our first quarter of 2011 is expected to capture only 15% of our full year EBITDA.
Looking forward we believe that second quarter adjusted EBITDA will account for approximately 27% to 28% of our full year 2011 adjusted EBITDA.
Finally let me talk a bit our corporate disclosure.
Going forward we intend to improve transparency by disclosing additional information about our company and our portfolio.
We have a lot of good news to share and our management team is highly focused on providing the investment community the information required to properly evaluate our company and our performance.
With that I'll turn it over to Ken to talk about our strategic focus and direction.
Ken please go ahead.
Thank you very much John and again welcome to the Sunstone team.
While Sunstone has made progress on a number of strategic fronts thus far this year we are by no means satisfied with where we stand.
In recent months investors have shied away from Sunstone for a variety of fair reasons including lingering concerns about volatility in our Senior Management team our higher-than-average financial leverage renovation-related displacements and a lack of clarity with respect to our strategic direction.
Consequently despite owning a high-quality portfolio of institutional great hotels which generate superior RevPAR and EBITDA per key Sunstone trades at a meaningful discount to comparable peer values.
We as a team have developed and are executing on a business plan aimed at squarely correcting our value deficit through disciplined balance sheet improvement conservative external growth operational excellence and clear and consistent communications.
We recognize that transforming Sunstone will take time dedication and considerable effort and John Marc and I along with the talented individuals who comprise the Sunstone team are all fully committed to the task.
While we have executed on our year-to-date acquisitions of high-quality hotels at very attractive valuations these acquisitions were encumbered with higher-than-target levels of indebtedness.
Accordingly as John noted over the next several quarters reducing our financial leverage will remain a key focus.
Under John's financial leadership we will continue to execute on a measured plan to improve our financial flexibility by enhancing our operational performance smartly adding high-quality unlevered hotels to our portfolio and by opportunistically paying down certain debt such as mortgage on the Doubletree Times Square.
While we're pleased with the continued improvements in demand for lodging and the improved efficiencies we've implemented throughout our portfolio continuing to enhance our operational performance remains a priority.
Under Marc's leadership we have reworked our approach to asset management and are adding key professionals to lead our property-level efforts to maximize the long-term value of our portfolio.
We as a team are working with our operators on a variety of initiatives aimed at challenging unwarranted brand initiatives and ensuring brand standards are expanded only in ways that will truly add value to our hotels.
Finally as John noted without clear company communications stockholders cannot make sound investment decisions.
We can and will do a better job of providing you with the tools you need to evaluate Sunstone.
For example as I noted earlier had we provided guidance earlier this year as many of you asked the factors affecting our full year and especially Q1 performance would've been better understood by the Street and consequently some the recent disconnects between our internal forecasts and Street consensus would've been avoided.
As mentioned earlier we are focused on earning the trust and support of the investment community and we believe that by providing additional transparency reinstituting guidance and meaningfully ramping up our Investor Relations efforts we are taking meaningful steps in the right direction.
In working to build your support and trust we will seek to schedule in-person meetings with many of you in the very near future.
Before I turn the call over to questions I'd like to discuss the innate quality and potential of Sunstone's current portfolio.
Our portfolio's characteristics have improved materially over the last several years.
When I joined Sunstone over 6 years ago our Hotel portfolio primarily constitute of small mid-sized hotels in secondary and tertiary markets with an average RevPAR of $69 and an average size of just 240 keys.
We now own a 33 Hotel portfolio that consists of institutional quality well-located upper upscale assets with an average size of 408 keys and which generated an average RevPAR of approximately $115 during 2010.
The majority of our earnings are generated by large high-quality urban hotels including the 1 190-room Hilton San Diego with 870-room Renaissance Washington DC the 412-room Marriott Boston-Long Wharf and the 920 rooms we have in the heart of Times Square in the form of the Hilton Times Square and the Doubletree Times Square which as Marc mentioned we are rebranding as the Hilton Suites Times Square.
Our pro forma adjusted corporate EBITDA for the trough year of 2010 was north of $200 million.
As a point of reference 2007 peak RevPAR and hotel EBITDA for our current 33 Hotel portfolio were $134 and $315 million respectively.
Based on our current stock price our portfolio trades well below market comps at just over 200 000 per key.
As industry fundamentals continue to strengthen noting that Sunstone's margins in 2010 were more than 200 basis points higher than the margins achieved on a same-store basis during the 2003 trough our portfolio has the potential to meaningfully exceed prior-peak performance levels over the next several years.
Going forward our objectives are clear and our strategy is simple: We as a team are highly confident in our ability to unlock and drive significant value above current levels through the disciplined execution of our balanced business plan.
With that let's open up this call to questions.
Operator please go ahead.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Ryan Meliker with Morgan Stanley.
A couple of quick questions here really surrounding the Hilton Bayfront.
I guess first is can you give us color on how your demand mix is shifting other for 2011 or maybe where you're expecting to go now that you bought this big group branded hotel? and then also maybe some color on Group pace across your portfolio and revenue and rates? Ryan this is Ken.
I apologize you're very garbled.
And your request – it’s sounds like you're asking for a shift in Hilton Bayfront? Yes I was just wondering if the demand mix across your portfolio has shifted? If demand mix has shifted across your portfolio after the acquisition of that larger group branded hotel? And then where group pace is looking for 2011 in terms of rate and revenue.
Sure.
We won't give specifics on the San Diego hotel but I can tell you that our segmentation has certainly shifted over time.
In 2009 for example Group rooms comprised about 29% of our demand.
They are now at about 33% of our demand.
So it certainly shifted over into a more of a group orientation.
Transient is comprised primarily now of Business Transient whereas over the last couple of years that Business Transient segment which was the highest-rated segment had been a lower percentage.
So you're seeing a shift within that Transient segment as well into the higher-rated areas.
Is the 33% Group that you're seeing now kind of where you guys want to be? Or are you hoping to see that change over time? I think with the existing portfolio you're going to see Group continue to expand as a percentage of our total demand base.
We could certainly see it reaching the 35% 36% level.
Ultimately though our portfolio is primarily business transient-oriented.
So while adding Group hotels is certainly a facet of our strategic plan.
Also driving business within that transient segment from the lower rated Leisure Government and Contract segments into business is also a key focus item.
And then any color on your portfolio revenue pace in the Group segment? Portfolio revenue base in terms of pace? Yes the pace whether it be volume or rate or combination.
Sure.
Pace trends are looking very good.
We're up about 9% at this point and that's split pretty well between -- it's about 5% in the Rooms and about 4% in Rate at this point.
Great that's helpful.
And then just one last real quick question.
You mentioned that the 2007 peak EBITDA and RevPAR of your current portfolio was about $134 and $315 million.
If I recall correctly 2007 was when the Hilton Bayfront opened.
So is it safe to assume that a more stabilized Hilton Bayfront revealed at a much higher peak level? That's actually a really good question.
Now we've tried to factor for what would have been a pro forma number for that hotel had it been opened in '07.
And I'm glad you asked the question because the $134 and the $315 million does factor for a kind of our estimate of the run-rate potential for that hotel.
And our next question comes from the line of Ian Wiseman [ph] with ISI Group.
May be you could talk a little bit more specifically about deal pipelines.
Obviously you hired Robert to come in and head acquisitions.
What are you seeing in the marketplace today and are REITs clearly at the same advantage as they were in the past? The deal pipeline continues to be very robust.
As you know from the 3 transactions that Sunstone's closed on thus far this year we're highly focused on "off-market transactions " and I say quote because obviously in an efficient market there's really no "off-market deals." But we're really focused on leveraging our relationships and getting out there and acquiring hotels where we can add value to the current ownership in an un-marketed format.
And so those continue to be the types of transactions that we look for.
Again the deals that we've done thus far this year the total in value roughly $900 million and they were acquired in EBITDA multiple instead of 14x on a trailing basis.
Those are the types of deals we'll look to continue to do and we do think that those opportunities do exist.
Can you remind us again where your unlevered IRI targets are? Sure we think our weighted average cost of capital is in the high-single digit and we look to on an unlevered basis achieve returns that are 100 to  400 basis points and hurdle above that.
And finally you talked about potential for reinstating the dividend this year.
Can you may be talk about timing and level? Sure.
John mentioned that we're likely to generate positive taxable income to our common shares during the course of this year.
We had our board meeting this week and during that meeting we decided that we would make a decision on the timing of our dividend in our August meeting.
So you can expect great deal of additional color on that in our next call.
Our next question comes from the line of Eli Hackel with Goldman Sachs.
Just one question on leverage levels.
Can you guys give a little bit more detail in terms of leverage levels that you're comfortable? Maybe talk not just now over the next year but leverage levels that you're really comfortable with long term i.e.
maybe going through another downturn part of a long view that is from now and how you adjust your strategy over the next -- not much 2 years but I'll say 3 to 4 years or whenever the next recession comes? Really good question because I think discussing our credit strategy really does require a long-term focus in terms of timing.
Let me shift the call over to John here to walk through some of the specifics but the general objective here is to continue to improve our coverage and reduce our leverage over the next 3 to 4 years to get to a point where if we're at the peak of a typical cycle we will have a great deal of financial flexibility going into the trough.
So why don't I just turn it over to John to give you more specifics on how we will obtain those objectives and what we believe those objectives the attainment of those objectives will bring to the company.
Eli John Arabia here.
When determining the leverage levels that we would really like to drive to long term the way we are thinking about it is we want to be able to have access to multiple forms of capital at the trough when that next trough comes.
We don't know exactly when it will come we're hopeful that we have a long run in operating fundamentals over this next cycle.
But I think history has proven that those cycles eventually play out and we've just gone through 2 very significant downward cycles where we as a management team would like to position our capital structure is that we cannot only survive but operate our day-to-day business including funding capital expenditures but also at that point in time remain able to go on offense.
And so longer-term the way that we are looking at it internally is we would like to get to a leverage level where if we witness earnings decline like we have witnessed over the past 2 cycles let's call it 40% 45% which again were considered anomalies that we would be able to again go on offense.
That's a fairly low debt-to-EBITDA number and it's going to take pretty active balance sheet management albeit very disciplined.
I just want to reiterate a point that the goal here is not that reduction but the goal is improving shareholder value and so we will do this on a step-by-step gradual basis.
Does that answer your question? Yes.
And maybe just to follow-up to it.
So does that mean that it'll be more in the -- if you guys are doing acquisitions to this very high equity values or you think you'll just do one-off equity raises just to straight out reduced leverage? This is Ken.
Let me just jump in because I think your question was a fairly specific one.
We will not be raising equity simply to pay down debt.
John and I both outlined in our comments that there are really 3 means to reducing our leverage overtime and John said it's exactly right.
That this is going to be a measured and disciplined approach.
So the 3 goals are: number one focusing on operational excellence and improvement; number two funding acquisitions much more highly with equity but not raising equity to pay down debt; and then number three opportunistically using our excess cash balances to repay a portion of our debt as we're able to.
For example our plan calls for a partial pay down of the debt on the Doubletree Times Square later on this year as we embark on that refinancing.
Great.
That’s very helpful.
Our next question comes from the line of Joseph Greff with KeyBanc.
I just missed 1 of your 3 points that you were just saying.
Can you talk about operational improvements pay down debt and what was the third? Well the third one would be that we'll look to acquire hotels that are additives to our portfolio quality and growth profile in a way that also benefits our credit metrics.
And so what that means in simple terms is that we'll look to acquire hotels using more equity than debt.
Okay.
If you can explain that using more equity than debt.
It sounded almost out of cash.
.
Correct.
So we would look to fund our acquisitions basically match fund equity raises with the additive acquisitions.
Okay.
So you would raise equity to make acquisitions not to pay down debt? That's correct.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Woronka with Deutsche Bank.
I want to ask you on the Doubletree Times Square.
Can you may be give us again some kind of direction in terms of the ADR or maybe the RevPAR lift that you expect from that conversion to the Hilton Suites? Sure.
I'll turn this over to Marc for that.
He's done a lot of work on the project.
We're not going to be able to give too much in terms of specifics but we're pretty excited about the impact of this project.
So let me shift it over to Marc.
Sure.
In general obviously the Doubletree currently runs significantly high occupancies in the mid-90s is the #1 in that entire set.
But even with that high gauge who you know who runs that hotel and also now runs our Hilton Times Square hotel really has superior intel in the market they provided us with and we strongly believe that there is upside particularly by changing the brand to Hilton.
What you will do there are significant amount of Hilton other customers that we believe that will be willing to pay premium slight premium.
We think there is a premium in ADR in the range of $8 to $15 in that range in terms of the switch once we get that done and we will be doing the work approximately post-January in 2012.
Also of the international clientele really does see Hilton as a much more of a buy-in.
We have a very large international potential market in that entire area.
Sure.
And then I guess John the signage revenue from that does that just go into the Other hotel revenue line? Yes.
Okay great.
Also I want to ask you about that earn-out feature on the Royal Palm Miami.
Can you share with us where the hotel is with respect to those hurdles and how long does that earn-out extend? Sure.
Chris this is Ken.
The earn-out is a perpetual earn-out.
So obviously we're not in the money and are not at this point.
But the Royal Palm being a repositioning and renovation project is going to realize its value on the backend of that renovation.
So you're likely to realize that on sale.
Okay great.
And finally on the San Diego Bayfront can you -- and I don't know if you guys even have the information but relative to where you think this might have been underwritten when it was built in terms of the RevPAR number do you have any sense as to where we are in terms of the ramp up? Sure.
Certainly against performance the hotel is outperforming.
I think that's probably a unique claim as far as the hotels that were built during that time period.
It was built very well in a market that really needed that product.
So it's outperforming underwriting and we're pretty excited about the pace going forward.
It is the #1 asset in the San Diego market.
Our next question comes from the line of Enrique Torres of Green Street Advisors.
Could you just comment on have you seen any operating impact from Sales Force One hat has been a net positive or negative and what you project the impact to be going forward? Enrique I'll take this one and then I'll shift it over to Marc.
That's a very good question.
As I noted in my comments and Marc echoed we as a team are very focused on analyzing and challenging brand initiatives.
But I think Sales Force One is a fairly new initiative.
With any new initiative that's as sweeping and as ambitious as this one you're going to see some turbulence and some growing pains.
Marc is going to give a little more detail here but the short answer is the jury is still out.
Enrique Marriott is still the #1 driver of Group rooms in North America.
Their ability to drive Group rooms is still #1.
I would tell you that we will continue to work with them.
I was recently in Washington last week going hotel by hotel with the highest level of sales people and the highest level of people in Marriott.
And we are confident particularly with their flexibility and openness to our feedback that we will continue to see improvements.
Okay all right it's a good color there.
And as follow-up question on the disposition as you mentioned or capital recycling initiative can you provide a little color on it's not what as specifically perhaps what type of asset within your portfolio you would be looking to target there? Sure Enrique this is Ken.
We had some capital recycling earlier this year with the Royal Palm where it was a nonconforming project.
There are other legacy assets in this our portfolio that don't fit the mold of the assets that I described on the call those high-quality institutional assets in primary markets.
Our top 10 hotels generate 66% of our EBITDA.
So we really want to focus on owning a portfolio that is comprised of those large institutional quality assets.
So if you look at the map on our website I'm not going to name names but you can see certain assets that probably would qualify as mid-term sale candidates and so stay tuned on that.
In the interest of not disrupting operations or distracting the team from the focus of running the hotel to the max potential stay tuned and we'll let you know if there are any dispositions in our future.
That’s helpful.
Our next question comes from the line of Shaun Kelley from Bank of America.
I just wanted to talk real quickly if we could go back I mean Ken now with the acquisition of the additional interest in the Doubletree Times Square in New York and D.C.
both had a little bit kind of weather issues in the first quarter.
I don't think you broke it out in the REITs I apologize if I missed it at the very beginning of the call but any sense on how much that impacted you in the first quarter and what you're seeing particularly in New York and D.C.
since they are some big hotels for you now? Let me shift it over to Marc.
We did break out regions in our press release but Marc can you give us some specific information about those.
Sure.
I know some of the other REITs that talked about the Northeast.
I mean overall we did have some impact in occupancy.
I don't think we've calculated it down to specific percentages but we did take some RevPAR decline in those same weeks similar to a diamond rock those types of things.
We didn't feel it was meaningful enough that we really needed to call it out.
Okay that's helpful.
And then I guess secondarily I just wanted to ask about the kind of the acquisition strategy going forward.
Kind of thinking about the Royal Palm and obviously that was a bigger repositioning story.
You guys made a kind of decision to move away from that.
So could you just kind of walk us through what you think is going to be different about the way that the Royal Palm kind of process went through versus what you're going to be looking for next as we think about the difference in that deal and the difference in the kind of the go-forward deals and where Robert maybe comes in on that front? Sure.
Good question.
It's pretty simple and somewhat boring but our focus right now is to acquire institutional quality assets with in-place EBITDA that are well located in primary markets that have more than 350 keys that generate in-place trailing RevPAR that's additive to the pro forma of our portfolio which was about 115 last year branded.
And while we certainly can and do look to add value through our design and construction function and our asset management function we're looking for projects where we can add value on the margin without doing deep deep dive repositionings at this point.
And ultimately once we grow the company and build up the portfolio over the next several years we'll certainly take on more of those deep dive accretive value-add initiatives but the first order of business is to focus on middle of the fairway institutional quality assets that are branded.
And maybe just the last question would be as you kind of think about pricing in some of the markets we've obviously continue to see some pretty big headline price-per-key numbers coming out of New York D.C.
San Francisco.
So do you think the strategy kind of what you talked about there kind of in terms of RevPAR premium to the existing portfolio can you do that in -- I mean would you look for markets outside of maybe the big 3 or 4 at this point and kind of how do you think about kind of weighing that versus just pound for pound? You might something that checks a couple of those boxes but you're going to pay a really low cap rate to get in.
Sure.
We're certainly not married to the top 3 markets.
We acquired New Orleans for example earlier this year which is a terrific asset very well located but all of our parameters and that takes us to top 30 market if you really want to break it down.
So we're not of -- so that looking at some of the top markets and I think that's one of our strengths rather than going through the market of generals and competing with all the other players on some these high-profile deals we're going out and spending time in those top 15 to top 30 markets looking for the right assets that fit are profile.
And those deals can be done as we've demonstrated in the 3 deals that we closed thus far this year at far better valuations than the marketed deals.
And just one last one I thought of.
But Houston was a drag with some group business that you think have been changing out there or some contracts that you guys had lost.
But with oil kind of coming back quickly as it has borrowing yesterdays drop obviously did that provide a tailwind there? Are you seeing any improvements in Houston above and beyond kind of what you would've expected because of the disruption from the contract loss? Yes good question.
Obviously the contract loss was we had KBR in the hotel for several years and the hotel did superior during that timeframe.
We now have completely refocused the hotel both from rebuilding to sales teams to spending considerable capital to position the hotels.
RevPAR at our Houston hotels was down approximately 7.8% to last year in Q1.
Although down on a year-over-year basis we meaningfully beat our budgeted expectations in Q1 by 12%.
As the hotels experienced an increase in transient group bookings we've continued to see strength.
If this trend continues forward which we think it will we could see year-over-year RevPAR increases earlier than previously expected.
The Houston Marriott will see positive RevPAR in Q2 while the Houston Hilton will see positive RevPAR growth in Q3.
And for full year forecast we expect both hotels now to have RevPAR growth albeit slight growth for 2011 which is significantly better than we were before.
Our next question comes from the line of David Katz with Jefferies &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> So I missed I apologize I've been sort of on and off a bit but during some of the commentary we were curious about the margins that were sort of clean stripped away for same-store and as well for construction.
And I believe the commentary reflected 2 reasons one of which was a union cost that occurred.
And would you mind revisiting what that second reason was? I'm not sure I was clear on it please.
Sure.
The margins were a part of the complicated set of factors.
First of all the data point that we offered up that was adjusting for the renovations were our margins would've been up about 40 basis points.
One of the big factors in our margins this year because our pro forma numbers include the prior year of the Hilton Bayfront current year.
The Hilton Bayfront has its full union wage scale in place this year.
That was obviously underwritten by us when we acquired the hotel.
But our results had a lot of noise in the year-over-year comparison in the margins.
Beyond that you've also got a shift over in wages and benefits across our portfolio which were up slightly actually in the low teens.
And in fact slightly higher than that in the number of our hotels.
So wage pressure certainly was accounted for throughout our portfolio.
A portion of that and a portion of the cost pressure at the property level was also related to bonus accruals and so on.
As the hotels continue to ramp up in performance we incent our operators through financial bonus metrics.
And so it was a positive indicator of the performance of our portfolio you are seeing now bonus metrics creep into the scheme.
Marc do you think you have anything else to add on that? Just a few other items.
Our Q1 2011 Hotel EBITDA margins for the 33 hotels were 23% down 20 basis points to last year.
Excluding the hotels under renovation our margins would've been up 40 basis points.
Ken talked about the other items that were involved with that.
And in addition the 2 Houston hotels again continue to negatively impact us from the first quarter.
We expect that that negative impact from Houston to diminish during the second part of the year as I talked about a moment ago as RevPAR continues to improve there.
Inc.</strong> If I can just follow that up for a moment did you say -- are we clear that some of these issues will carry through into the second quarter and through the rest of the year? Because I think 1 of the things that has come across from not only from you all but from others in your category is that we're looking at a ramping and backend loaded year which I guess introduces an element of risk to estimates.
And we just want to make sure that we're properly reflecting any impacts in 2Q 3Q that we should.
We don't see it as being a fully transferable into the second third and fourth quarters of this year.
Another thing that hit margins in the first quarter was that 100% margin business in the form of attrition payments were significantly lower in the first quarter.
We think that will moderate out during the course of the year.
And we think that the more important point with respect to our portfolio is the efficiency level that it's currently running at.
So while the year-over-year comparisons may be more moderate than we would've liked in the first quarter the absolute performance in terms of margins is pretty impressive as I noted in my comments were 200 basis points higher than where our same-store portfolio is running at the trough of the last cycle.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
And one last 1 on that issue.
Many companies have talked about New York and it's sort of impact on their portfolios to varying degrees.
Why is it or should we consider New York isolated to 1Q or is that an issue that we expect to pervade the rest of the year? Well let me take a bit of that 1 and then I'm going to give it over to Marc.
On a pure economic standpoint in terms of supply and demand we haven't seen some supply additions in New York and they continue to increase above the historical average.
But that's really a broader New York issue and you’ve got to think of New York as a very pluralistic market.
Our presence in the Times Square core market the 920 keys that we have on the corner of Mean and Main.
So when you look at the supply impact from a broader New York market those certainly are noteworthy.
But we look at our hotels as being highly protective in their current locations.
Marc do you want to add anything to that? Sure.
Our 2 hotels are a combined Q1 RevPAR growth of 9.8% which was significantly higher than the Manhattan track as you well know and even significantly higher than the mid-Manhattan track.
The Hilton ran 85% occupancy the Doubletree ran 92.3% for the quarter.
Our preliminary numbers for the month of April show the hotels running a combined RevPAR in north of 12%.
We will continue to watch supply.
We're closely with Highgate but believe that we own the 2 best-located hotels in the markets and feel that the impact of those 2 hotels will be less because everything emanates from Times Square out and we still feel pretty solid about particularly with our results being so much more than the tracked.
Our next question comes from the line of Bryan Maher with Citadel Securities.
LLC</strong> I guess my question is a little bit bigger picture and kind of falls a little bit from David's questioning but it really relates to RevPAR.
Pretty much the party line for all the companies at the report is this 6% to 8% for the year.
But on the back of that many of the companies kind of came up short in the first quarter.
So based upon the kind of tepid economic recovery high unemployment commodity prices and kind of a slowing of occupancy growth can you kind of handicap how you feel about that 6% to 8% RevPAR growth forecast? Sure Bryan.
Let me jump on this 1 and once again I'll shift over to Marc to give you the actual facts.
But our current projections would indicate that RevPAR given our pace trends given our forward bookings et cetera is likely to perform kind of 7% to 8% in the second quarter significantly higher just based on comps more than anything in the third quarter in the higher-single digits.
And then back down to kind of that 7% to 8% in the fourth quarter is how we're currently projecting things out.
And again that's substantiated by our property level buildups.
Marc do you want to add any? Yes.
I mean look I think that your comment is a fair comment about what happened to the economy and where we go.
I mean I think at this point that's why we've given the range of 6% to 8%.
The good news is that the pace that we have on the books is 9% ahead and the 2 beads that we need to book in our hotels for the remainder of the year while is a reasonable number it continues to fall as it should be as we move to the out months.
Again I think the range is a appropriate.
Q1 is a softer quarter in general around the country which is why you heard what you heard from most of the comp said of the REITs.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> First question since you gave guidance just curious if you'd walk through kind of the sources and uses specifically CapEx spend that you guys have kind of budgeted in that guidance for 2011 as well as what you're kind of assuming in terms of the debt pay down and what you anticipate for end of the year cash balance.
Sure Mike this is Ken.
I'll jump in on that 1.
Our CapEx forecast for this year is for the full year roughly $100 million to $120 million.
We did about mid-thirties in the first quarter on CapEx and completed a number of projects as Marc mentioned.
As far as debt reduction during the course of the year it's going to come in 2 forms: amortization of roughly $20 million and then we do expect to pay down a portion of the Doubletree Time Square loan at the end of the year at the fourth quarter.
We think that that pay down is going to be roughly $90 million.
We certainly don't know the specifics at this point and we would expect to end the year with cash.
We do want to have a little bit more efficient cash position to end this year.
And so we would expect to end the year with cash in $40 million to $60 million range.
LLC</strong> Okay that's helpful.
I don't know if you mentioned this in your prepared comments but did you give the RevPAR for April for the portfolio? We did not.
Hold on Mike and we'll pull that together for the group.
And Mike just to follow-up to Ken's comments remember we are moving into the period of the year where we're going to be generating more and more cash from operations as opposed to the first quarter which is fairly like that regard.
LLC</strong> That's helpful.
Just to follow-up to Enrique's question while we're waiting here he asked about asset recycling.
Just curious if you guys are actively marketing any properties right now.
We are not actively marketing any properties right now.
We're certainly entertaining inbound calls in a number of properties once in a while but we do not have any active marketing efforts.
And then to answer your question about RevPAR for April for our portfolio it was up 5.5% across-the-board.
And our next question is a follow-up question from the line of Dennis Forst with KeyBanc.
My timing was perfect because I was going to ask about the April RevPAR.
First of all Easter falling in April have an impact on that 5.5% number? Yes that's correct.
It's makes it a little bit lighter in our business hotels.
That is correct.
And that April number includes all the properties that you currently owned the 33 versus those same 33 a year ago? Yes that's 33 versus 33.
Okay.
And then lastly I'm wondering about your thoughts about limited service hotels.
There's been a lot of talk by investors about limited service hotels.
You've got a Residence Inn you've got a Courtyard but certainly wasn't in your dialogue Ken about looking forward going forward.
Good question Dennis.
Because we certainly don't want to -- we don't want to box ourselves to any specific brand names.
We like urban upscale and upper upscale hotels in top markets.
We would certainly consider an urban Courtyard for example or urban Hilton Garden Inn for example to fit within our target profile in the right markets and the right locations.
So you could certainly see a limited occurrence of us investing in those types of assets.
But primarily we're looking at the upper upscale side.
And limited would only be in the top 5 top 10 markets where you could get a very high rate? Correct.
Got you.
Okay.
And there are no further questions in the queue.
I'd like to turn the conference back to Mr.
Cruse for any closing remarks at this time.
Great.
Well thank you everyone for participating on the call.
We look forward to speaking with you later in the year in our inter-quarter update.
And we also look forward to meeting with many of you over the next several weeks at maybe NYU or at several road shows that we talked about going together.
So thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the Sunstone Hotel Investors First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Sunstone Hotel Investors Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Monday August 8.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Bryan Giglia Senior Vice President of Corporate Finance of the Sunstone Hotel Investors.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Camille.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
By now you should have all received a copy of our second quarter earnings release which was released this morning.
If you do not yet have a copy you can access it on our website at www.sunstonehotels.com.
As you may have noticed in addition to our scheduled quarterly release we are also providing additional disclosures including property-level operating statistics.
This additional disclosure can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website also.
Before we begin this call I would like to remind everyone that this call contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties including those described in our prospectuses 10-Qs 10-Ks and other filings with the SEC which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
We caution you to consider those factors in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
We also note that this call may contain non-GAAP financial information including EBITDA adjusted EBITDA FFO adjusted FFO and hotel EBITDA margins.
We are providing that information as a supplement to information prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
With us today are Ken Cruse President and Chief Executive Officer; John Arabia Chief Financial Officer; and Marc Hoffman Chief Financial Officer.
After our prepared remarks the team will be available to answer your questions.
I will now turn the call over to Ken.
Ken please go ahead Thank you Brian.
And thank you all for joining us.
Today I'll cover 3 topics including our second quarter performance our outlook for the remainder of the year and Sunstone's now completed leadership transition.
After that Marc will cover our operational details and John will review our finance initiatives as well as our new supplemental disclosures.
I will then conclude our prepared remarks before opening up the call for your questions.
Obviously increasing global economic concerns as well as the recently highlighted need for near-term stimulus and meaningful long-term fiscal reform in the U.S.
have generated significant turbulence in the markets.
While these macroeconomic concerns have taken their toll on individual stock values we have not seen a direct translation into slower business trends in our hotels.
In fact as evidenced by our second quarter performance in our July results we continue to see robust demand trends across our portfolio.
Moreover our liquidity position remains very strong our debt maturities are well staggered and our business plan is oriented towards fiscal discipline and operational excellence.
Accordingly we are well-positioned for the current environment.
Moving to our second quarter results.
For our comparable portfolio second quarter RevPAR rose to nearly $132 an increase of 7.2% over the second quarter a year ago.
Our solid RevPAR growth was driven by a 4.1 increase in rate and a 3.1 increase in occupancy.
Transient business trends in particular were strong during the quarter and generally offset isolated instances of weakness in group demand.
Our Q2 performance was further enhanced by strong growth in our recently renovated hotels and a corresponding decline in renovation disruption as we completed the majority of our 2011 renovation projects including rooms renovations at 9 of our hotels during the first or second quarter of this year leaving only a handful of ongoing projects throughout our portfolio.
Quality renovations and proactive asset management are leading to improved market penetration as measured by our composite Smith Travel Research RevPAR index which we refer to as our STR index.
Our STR index increased nearly 100 basis points in the second quarter.
Penetration was particularly strong in June with our portfolio gaining 230 basis points in STR index.
Going forward continued market share growth remains a core asset management focus.
Operational efficiency is also a core focus of our asset management team which helped to drive meaningful flow-through during the quarter.
Specifically in the second quarter we retained $0.76 in EBITDA for every $1 in incremental revenue our portfolio generated.
As a result of this exceptional profit translation our same-store hotel EBITDA grew by nearly 17% over the same time last year and we attained hotel EBITDA margins of approximately 31% in the quarter an improvement of 280 basis points over the prior year.
And our margin performance during the quarter did benefit from successful real estate taxes appeals at our Embassy Suites Chicago and our Fairmont Newport Beach.
Excluding these tax benefits pro forma margins were up approximately 240 basis points and our same-store hotel EBITDA grew by 15% as compared to the second quarter of 2010.
We are very pleased with our year-to-date acquisitions and the effect that they have had on our portfolio quality and performance.
We worked extensively with the team at the Hilton Bayfront in San Diego to identify and  implement new profit opportunities which helped the hotel to generate better than 6% RevPAR growth and higher than underwritten margins during the second quarter which were expected to decline versus last year as a result of pre-existing contractual wage adjustments.
Our Doubletree Times Square generated 360 basis points of margin expansion or nearly 15% growth in RevPAR.
And our JW New Orleans generated 790 basis points of margin expansion on better than 16% growth in RevPAR.
Current transient demand remains strong throughout our portfolio and we continue to see a healthy increase in mid-week compression.
So far in the third quarter our portfolio revenue growth is accelerating with July RevPAR up 11% as compared to July 2010.
This is our most current and relevant indicator of the growing strength and demand across our portfolio.
While demand continues to show resilience given the typically high correlation between hotel demand and the broader economy we believe caution is warranted in projecting business trends for the remainder of the year.
Accordingly in spite of our stronger-than-expected second quarter we are maintaining our prior guidance for 2011 with a slight adjustment for the effect of a pending sale of the Eugene Valley River Inn.
To reiterate we expect comparable RevPAR to increase between 6% and 8% over 2010.
This applies adjusted corporate EBITDA of between $203 million and $214 million and adjusted FFO per share ranging from $0.78 to $0.87.
Looking ahead as I mentioned despite the recent turbulence in the stock market and well-founded macroeconomic concerns industry fundamentals remain constructive and we generally believe that the long-term hotel recovery will continue albeit at a moderate pace.
We believe an environment in which demand continues to grow at a moderate pace interest rates remain very low and supply trends remain muted would be very favorable for our business model.
Shifting to portfolio management.
Today we announced our intent to sell the $257 million Valley River Inn in Eugene Oregon.
The hotel is encumbered by approximately $11 million of mortgage debt and was expected to generate approximately $1.7 million of EBITDA in 2011.
We will provide specifics on the sale of this hotel later this year.
And we will continue to evaluate other assets for potential sale during the third and the fourth quarter.
Finally with respect to our team we've now finalized our leadership transition and Sunstone's Board of Directors has appointed me to the position of Chief Executive Officer.
I thank our Board of Directors for their confidence in making this appointment.
This effectively concludes the transitional period that began last December during which Bob Alter and I served as co-leaders of Sunstone.
I truly thank Bob for his exceptional support teamwork and mentorship during this transition period.
During this period we closed on nearly $900 million of attractively-priced high-quality hotel acquisitions we sold the company's Royal Palm project at a nice profit and most importantly we assembled an exceptional team to lead Sunstone's next era.
It is my privilege and honor to have the opportunity to lead such an outstanding team.
We have meaningfully deepened our talent base streamlined our team structure redefined our corporate culture and clarified our direction.
Sunstone is now characterized by a system of leadership as collaborative quantitative strategic and disciplined.
Going forward I have absolutely no doubt that through our combined efforts and dedication we will achieve our core objectives of superior operational performance lower leverage and meaningfully improved investor understanding of our portfolio and business plan.
Transparency will be a hallmark at Sunstone going forward.
Accordingly we have introduced a significantly expanded investor disclosure package this quarter which John will discuss in detail in a moment.
I'll now turn the call over to  Marc Hoffman to discuss our portfolio operations in greater detail.
Please go ahead Marc.
Thank you Ken.
And good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
Today we will review our portfolio second quarter operating performance an update on our recently completed and our in-process renovations and finally review some of our new asset management initiatives.
All hotel information discussed today unless otherwise noted is for our 32 Hotel portfolio which includes on a pro forma basis all 2011 acquisitions the Doubletree Guest Suites Time Square the JW Marriott New Orleans the Hilton San Diego Bayfront and excludes the Royal Palm and Eugene Valley River Inn.
As indicated pro forma RevPAR increased 7.2% in the second quarter comprised of 4.1% increase in average room rates and a 3.1% increase in rooms sold.
Our ADR growth is a result of increases in premium corporate and leisure room revenue and the reduction of discount segments.
In this quarter 28 of our 38 -- 32 hotels had positive RevPAR with 15 of those hotels generating double-digit growth.
For more detailed information please reference Pages 25 and 26 of the enhanced supplemental information provided in addition to this quarter's release.
We saw positive in many regions including the Northeast Midwest and Southern California.
Looking forward at our group business our current booking pace for 2011 is up 6.3% over 2010 levels.
This trend represents a 3.6% increase in occupancy and a 2.6% increase in rate as compared to 2010.
Full year 2012 group pace is down almost 3.5% driven by a decline in room nights resulting from a weak convention calendar in Washington D.C.
due to the election year as well as a weak calendar in Baltimore.
2012 full year pace without D.C.
and Baltimore Renaissance Hotels is actually up 6.4% with a 3.8% growth in rooms and a 2.5% growth in ADR.
We are focusing closely with our managers on group room night production.
The total number of group room nights booked in the quarter for the current and all future years.
In Q2 our 32 Hotel Portfolio production was down 4.7% compared to Q2 last year hampered by our 2 large Renaissance Hotels in Washington D.C.
and Orlando.
Without these 2 hotels group production for the quarter was actually up 7.3%.
D.C.
as most of you know has softened up this year and is facing a difficult 2012 with city-wide room nights down 30%.
From a segmentation standpoint Q2 group revenues were up a strong 8.5% driven by a 6.3% increase in group room nights.
Our transient room revenue for Q2 was up 6.9% to last year with a 5.1% increase in ADR.
In the second quarter our revenues from our premium demand sources were strong with revenues increasing 14% ADR increasing 5.4% and premium room nights increasing an impressive 8.1%.
In Q2 our corporate negotiated room revenues increased 2.5% with a 3.2% decrease in rooms and nearly a 6% increase in ADR.
Our asset managers are working closely with our management operators on a weekly basis to maximize hotel revenues and profits through nimble rate and occupancy strategy shifts depending on the changing market conditions.
Our portfolio showed very strong flow-through performance as well as solid EBITDA margin increases during the second quarter.
We continue to work with all of our operators to ensure that as RevPAR increases operating expenses do not creep back in unless significant occupancy increases justify our cost and we as asset managers agree with those increases.
This strategy is a key driver to the successful quarter as many of our hotels are aiding our increases and were successful at controlling their expenses with revenue increases.
This strategy was highly successful at the Kahler Grand the JW Marriott New Orleans Marriott Portland and Chicago Embassy Suites just to name a few.
Another contributing factor to the hotel's expense improvements is the ongoing gastro-bar concept which improves the F&amp;B profit margins by combining 2 outlets one of which is the restaurant most likely losing money into an efficient profitable single outlet.
Gastro-bar has been successfully implemented now at the Troy Marriott the Hyatt Newport Beach the Houston Marriott and most recently the Long Wharf Marriott.
Our Houston hotels are beginning to see improvements this year as they have substantially completed their renovations and repositionings and offer competitive profit.
The Houston Marriott is beginning to see an easier comp as the large piece of contract business had been out of the hotel for a full year and the hotel is beginning to see a lift from its complete rooms and lobby renovation.
Hilton Houston is expected to see an easier comps starting in Q3 in conjunction with the completion of the rooms and meeting space renovations.
We are also implementing best practices across our portfolio and specifically to our newly acquired hotels.
As a result we believe that our recently acquired hotels will exceed our initial underwriting absent any significant decline in the economy.
Our continued automated parking initiative is continuing to see success as seen by the improved profitability at the Marriott Quincy and the Marriott Tysons Corner as we install those parking systems this year.
Our real estate tax theme successfully achieved prior-year real estate tax refund at the Chicago Embassy Suites and the Newport Fairmont during the quarter which also benefited margin performance.
During the second quarter 5 of our 32 hotels were impacted by renovation displacement resulting in the displacement of roughly $500 000 in total hotel revenue.
This translated roughly into 30 to 50 basis points of displacement RevPAR growth in Q2.
Our focus is to minimize all lost revenue and disruption and complete all renovations as quickly and as efficiently as possible.
Our design and construction team in close coordination with our operators and our asset managers have done an excellent job of keeping us on track and getting renovations done on schedule and on budget.
During this quarter we've completed the rooms and lobby renovations at the Courtyard LAX the Houston Marriott Kahler Inn Suites the Rochester Marriott and the Doubletree Minneapolis.
Furthermore we added a 1-acre family-focused pool and leisure area along with an additional 10 000 square foot outdoor function lawn at our Renaissance SeaWorld in Orlando.
Our remaining 2011 projects include the master plan renovation of the Marriott Long Wharf which will be completed in Q3; the room and meeting space at Hilton Houston which will also be completed in Q3; our last renovation project for 2011 the rooms at the Del Mar Marriott will begin in December.
We do not expect any further displacement from renovations in these projects in 2011.
To anticipate a question regarding Marriott's new Sales Force One program Marriott's has been and remains the industry leader in group room night production.
While Sales Force One has created some disturbance in hotel production cycles we are working with Marriott on a market-by-market and hotel-by-hotel basis to execute refinements in the Sales Force One program to ensure the program ultimately is a positive one for our portfolio.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to John to discuss our balance sheet and financial initiatives.
John go ahead.
Thank you Marc.
Good morning everyone.
Today I'll give you an overview of several topics including: first our liquidity and access to capital; second our near-term debt maturities and obligations including an update of the Doubletree Times Square refinancing; third details regarding our earnings guidance; and finally fourth an overview of our new quarterly earnings supplemental and materially increased investor disclosure.
Let's start with liquidity.
Sunstone ended the second quarter with just over $205 million of cash including $144 million of unrestricted cash.
We intend to use roughly $90 million to $100 million of our sizable cash balance to delever the Doubletree Times Square as part of its refinancing later this year.
Despite the recent turbulence in the capital markets we continue to receive significant lender interest in refinancing the hotel due to the property's superior location and room size.
Following the refinancing of the Doubletree Times Square Sunstone's near-term debt maturities will be very manageable.
In 2012 '13 and '14 our debt maturities total roughly $95 million which includes our only corporate debt the $63 million of remaining exchangeable notes.
Based on the company's market capitalization at the end of the quarter the $95 million of maturities through 2014 represent less than 5% of our enterprise value.
For more information please refer to the new debt and debt maturity schedules on Pages 20 and 21 of our supplemental disclosure.
In addition to our larger-than-normal cash position we have an undrawn $150 million line of credit and we have 11 unencumbered assets that collectively are expected to generate $34 million of EBITDA in 2011.
As of the end of the quarter Sunstone has $1.67 billion of consolidated debt which includes 100% of the $240 million mortgage secured by the Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
Adjusting for the debt attributed to our minority partners in this asset our pro rata debt balance is currently $1.61 billion.
Our management team is completely aligned in our goal to gradually and methodically reduce our leverage and improve our financial flexibility but to do it in such a way that protects and maximizes shareholder value.
As Ken also mentioned earlier we updated our full year earnings guidance to reflect the pending sale for the Valley River Inn and our current view of operating fundamentals.
A full reconciliation of current guidance and adjusted prior guidance can be found on Pages 16 and 17 of our supplemental as well as in our earnings release.
Assuming comparable RevPAR increases 6% to 8% our adjusted corporate level EBITDA will be between $203 million and $214 million and our asset flow would be between $0.77 and $0.87 per share.
Our updated EBITDA guidance includes a more conservative view of group business in the third and fourth quarters of 2011.
As Ken mentioned we have actually seen an improvement in demand growth third quarter to date.
However we believe a more conservative view towards the second half of 2011 is warranted given the recent downward expectations for domestic economic growth.
We expect third quarter adjusted EBITDA to represent approximately 23% to 24% of our full year corporate EBITDA and we would expect the fourth quarter to represent approximately 30% to 32% of full year corporate EBITDA.
Now let's discuss our corporate disclosure and communication with the investment community.
As many of you are now aware Sunstone for the first time has furnished a supplemental financial information in conjunction with our quarterly earnings release.
The supplemental disclosure is expected to help the investment community to more thoroughly understand our portfolio our capital structure and our company.
Over time this information will allow you to measure the effects of our asset management initiatives and our investment and financing decisions.
Specifically we'd like to draw your attention to several schedules and exhibits in the supplemental including: First the robust capitalization and debt maturity information starting on Page 19; second property level operating fundamentals including occupancy rate and RevPAR starting on Page 25; and third property level EBITDA and EBITDA margin starting on Page 23.
Finally to assist you in modeling both earnings and net asset value we draw your attention to the pro forma portfolio earnings for the current and prior periods had we owned our consolidated 32 Hotel Portfolio and had entered into all financings from the beginning of all times presented.
A summary of these pro forma financials are presented on Page 14 and are reconciled in the appendix of the supplemental.
We believe that our decision to provide robust disclosure in addition to our decision last quarter to provide earnings guidance demonstrates this management team's commitment to honest and direct communication with the investment community.
As Ken stated transparency whether we are conveying good news or bad will be the hallmark of this management team.
With that I'll turn it over to Ken to wrap up our prepared remarks.
Ken please go ahead.
Okay.
Thank you very much John.
Before we open up the call to questions let me reiterate the new management team's core objectives which include delivering superior operating results measured balance sheet improvements and providing best-in-class investor disclosures and transparency.
I want to take a minute to say thank you to the entire Sunstone team for their continued and intense efforts in advancing these core objectives.
In spite of market challenges Sunstone is clearly moving in the right direction.
While our strong performance in the second quarter is a good start it is clear to us that we must continue to execute on our business plan with discipline and consistency in order to build investor respect and unlock the potential value in our business.
We as a team are confident in our ability to do just that.
With that let's open up the call to questions.
Camille please go ahead.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Eli Hackel with Goldman Sachs.
Just 2 questions.
First can you just talk a little bit more about the deleveraging strategy especially in light of the recent equity prices? And if you were to buy an asset how you would theoretically fund those? And then just a second question just on the guidance and you said more conservative on the group booking side.
Is that -- do you expect group cancellations or do you just expect fewer in-the-quarter for-the-quarter bookings? Or what exactly -- what did you mean by softer group booking trends? Great.
Thanks a lot Eli.
Look first of all on your question about the deleveraging strategy like while current market turbulence is obviously front and center in the minds of everyone on the call we'll not be reactionary in our tactics.
Our business plan does entail a measured and deliberate deleveraging of the company.
So we'll execute on the deleveraging strategy in a way that's appropriate for market conditions and results in appropriate levels of liquidity as we go forward.
So as far as funding acquisitions in today's environment clearly as we've talked about in the past acquisitions would largely to be funded through equity denominated transactions.
And in today's environment equity is not attractively priced for such tactics.
So I think you can assume that acquisitions will not be front and center in our business plan at least for the near term.
On the group trends that we're seeing for our portfolio.
Our group base is actually up for the remainder of the year.
It's up 6.3% and it's been above a 3.6% increase in occupancy and a 2.6% increase in rate.
So we are seeing positive group trends.
I think that tempering in our full year projections is more a product of what we're seeing in the current environment.
And given the high correlation between business trends and overall lodging demand we think that caution is warranted in spite of the fact that the early indications on Q3 in particular are very good.
So you haven't -- just to be clear you actually have not seen flow through to your business yet just -- you're just working to be more on the safe side just given what's going on in the headlines in the economy et cetera? Eli that's very safe to say.
As we've talked about during the course of the year we remain highly focused on the group productivity throughout our portfolio.
Marc mentioned in his prepared remarks that the Marriott Sales Force One initiative in particular has drawn a lot of focus from our team and ensuring that that initiative is employed in a way that's productive for our hotels is a key focus of our asset management team.
So -- and the 2012 group trends are slightly down on a pace basis.
So certainly we're focused on ensuring that group trends and productivity in terms of rooms booked into our portfolio for all future years is continuing to increase.
Right now on a business transient side in particular we're not seeing a decline.
And our next question is from the line of Jeff Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Actually just have a single question and I guess can -- might be kind of a long one.
I had a question about how you see the source of your future margin growth because if I look at the new disclosure I think the top third of your hotels are running at substantially higher EBITDA margins and then the bottom 2/3 and I think -- I think group also grew your margins substantially more in 2010 and again year-to-date.
Now I know every portfolio has subset of better assets and ones that are worse.
But I'm wondering if in your case you think maybe your margin potential and your better assets is closer to its peak so any further margin improvement for Sunstone will more likely be found in your call it the bottom 2/3 of your portfolio? Does that make sense? This is Ken.
I'll take that question initially and then I'll shift it over to Marc.
With respect to sources of margin growth to put things into perspective I'd like to talk about the new found efficiency throughout our portfolio from prior-cycle trough to the most recent cyclical trough.
In 2003 the margins on a same-store basis for our hotels troughed at 22%.
2009 as a result of efficiency measures that our team deployed throughout the portfolio the trough margins were 230 basis points higher at 24.3%.
Peak margins for our portfolio and this does not include the Hilton San Diego which didn't really exist during the prior peak was about 30.3% in margins.
Obviously during the second quarter we generated even stronger markets than that -- margins than that but that is a cyclical phenomenon rather than what we would  view as representative of that full year margin trend.
Marc and his team and certainly our operators have been incredibly productive at finding new ways to drive profitability throughout our portfolio.
And we're highly confident that continued innovation at the portfolio property level will continue.
Marc why don't I send it over to you to give some more specifics.
Jeff thanks.
I mean Jeff one of the key things obviously is that the high-rated markets obviously will drive a higher margin expansion.
I think one of the things that we are counting on and certainly expect is that the investment that we've made throughout our portfolio and if you look at all the renovations that we've done throughout the portfolio we think that there is room for solid rate growth occupancy growth and margin expansion within that -- I wouldn't use the term lower tier but the current lower amount of EBITDA margin in those hotels.
And we expect to see nice growth from those moving forward particularly the hotels which as I said is a large amount of the ones that were renovated.
LLC</strong> And just one follow up Marc.
I'm just curious as to subsequent to quarter end have you guys detected anything in your portfolio that -- for example have you seen the fall off in transient business or is it just too soon to be seeing that? No we haven't -- Jeff I mean it's 2 weeks of information.
Now generically we haven't seen anything in the last 2 weeks that shows us anything.
I think as you well know that's just too short a window.
And I think we'll just have to wait and see what occurs as people make decisions.
Jeff as I mentioned our July RevPAR number was up over 11%.
So clearly we're not currently seeing the adjutant and the broader economic markets translate into slower business trends at our hotels.
And our next question is from the line Ian Weissman ISI Group.
Just a couple of questions.
Maybe you could give a little bit more color on refinancing Doubletree where pricing is coming in and what the underwriting was like? Sure.
Let me shift that over to John.
Yes sure.
We started the process to refinance the Doubletree Times Square about 6 weeks ago or so and received a significant amount of interest in that asset given the location of that asset the quality of that asset and some of our plans for that asset.
We are whittling down the potential lenders that we are working with this.
And then clearly we're seeing a bit of turbulence in the CMBS market and that turbulence has really been choppy over the past couple of weeks particularly there's one large pool of loans that went into the market was pulled because of -- at least postponed because of a rating agency issue.
But we continue to monitor that.
But I think it's safe to say that you're going to see an increase in inventory being warehoused in the near term which is likely to cause some short-term disruption.
But I will say that based on very very recent conversations with CMBS lenders that several remain very committed to hotel lending but particularly to their high-quality assets.
And that's why I feel comfortable refinancing the Doubletree Times Square.
In addition to that there is significant interest from the balance sheet lenders in this asset.
Now the total pricing compared to where we executed on the Hilton Times Square you're going to see probably something call it maybe in the range of 100 wide of where we were there.
And so hopefully that's helpful.
That is.
Just 2 quick other questions.
Obviously you talked about deals being off the table given where your stock is and certainly given where pricing is in the markets you want to compete with.
How do you think about using any excess liquidity that you have today in buying back your stock given that you trade them and imply north of the 8.5 implied cap? You broke a little bit on the question but I understand it was related to our appetite for using access liquidity to buyback our shares? Yes.
No disagreement from us that our shares are certainly trading at a level that's well below warranted value.
And as I mentioned in my comments we as a team expect to execute on the strategy that will result in this -- in the shares trading much more in line with warranted value or above.
But in the current environment given the level of turbulence that we're seeing as I mentioned before we're not going to be reactionary in our tactics.
And we believe that maintaining fairly significant amounts of liquidity in this environment are prudent.
So at this point we do not think that a stock buyback as we sit here today is warranted.
That's fair.
And finally just -- you said in your release that the promotions -- your promotion as CEO congratulations marks the end of a co-leadership with Bob.
What is Bob's role going to be going forward? Well Bob is a member of our Board of Directors and look he's always served as an adviser and counsel to the team as needed.
So Bob will revert back to that type of a role at this point.
And we certainly as I mentioned in my comments do appreciate all the effort that he made during the course of this year to ensure stability and execution on our leadership build out.
But he will not be involved in day-to-day operations is that what you mean by the end of the co-leadership I guess? That is correct yes.
And our next question comes from the line of Enrique Torres of Green Street Advisors.
Question on the disposition.
You did announce okay one property is now being held for sale.
Can you give us an update on how far along the marketing process that is? And then just more generally now that acquisitions are kind of off the table for leveraging strategy are you expecting to kind of increase the pace of dispositions and use that as an avenue? Yes.
As I said in my prepared remarks we've taken one asset into -- off the current roster and put it into held for sale.
As has been our practice in the past we'll comment on that sale when and if it closes.
As far as examining our portfolio for additional sale candidates we're certainly involved in that exercise.
At this point though we have nothing identified or at least nothing that we want to talk about on today's call.
And our next question comes from the line of Ryan Meliker of Morgan Stanley.
Most of my questions were answered.
I was just hoping you could give us some color some thoughts about being a little more conservative perhaps prudently in your approach to guidance in group bookings in the back half of the year.
Maybe you could add some color in terms of where your group pace is for the back half of the year and what percentage of your expected group volumes are currently on the books versus what you can totally expect for the back half.
Sure.
As I mentioned our group pace is up 6.3%.
And that's made up of 3.6% increase in occupancy and a 2.6% increase in rate.
Q3 pace is up about 4%.
And it's flat in rooms and about -- so all of that is in rate.
Q4 pace is up 1.6% at this point.
And that's a one point improvement in rooms and basically just about a point in rate.
And what percentage of the total group that you had budgeted for the back half of the year is on the books? We're in good shape now.
We're actually ahead of where we were last year.
As a percentage I'd have to get back with you on that.
But from a standpoint of comparable room nights to booked compared  to previous years we are below the average of the previous years of what we have to book.
Well I guess maybe to ask another way then what I'm trying to figure out is how much -- given what you have in the books right now how much of an impact in forward group bookings for the back half of the year really impacted RevPAR for you? Well first of all we're about 65% transient as a portfolio.
So our 60% transient is a portfolio so we're -- our group never has comprised a meaningful percentage of our business or the bulk of our business I should say it a different way.
As John -- as Marc mentioned most of the group business that we've put into our forecast is on the books.
2Bs are very low.
We think it's prudent at this point for our forecasting purposes to eliminate any speculative or 2B-type business.
So you can assume that the bulk of the group business that we're counting on for the remainder of the year is already locked in.
And our next question is from the line of Brian Maher with Citadel.
LLC</strong> Most of my questions have been asked and answered.
But if we could just circle back to kind of your comments on reactionary versus -- a word I would use would be optimistic.
Can you talk about should the shares drop meaningfully further in this down draft if you have the authorization and kind of desire to actually buyback stock if we see what we saw back in '08 and '09 when one of your competitors actually bought back about 50% of their flows at ridiculously low levels is that something you would have an appetite for? And can you do that? Yes Brian thanks for the question.
Look it's somewhat hypothetical but I will tell you that Sunstone reflects back on some of the tactics that we employed during the last down cycle and we recognize that there was value destruction in those tactics.
So while we're not going to change our strategy based on one day or a couple of weeks of market that I would characterize as hysteria at this point we absolutely [indiscernible] in current market conditions and adjust our tactics accordingly.
But again as I said as we sit here today a stock buyback is not front and center in our tactics.
And let me  shift over to John.
He has some additional comments here.
Yes Brian.
It's a great question.
Look the share buybacks at the right time make a lot of sense particularly if there's a big arbitrage between public and private pricing.
I will say though that if we were to contemplate that -- and as Ken said very theoretical question at this point but if we were to contemplate something like that we would have to come with a series of transactions that materially increased our liquidity so we weren't putting our balance sheet at any incremental risk by buying back that stock.
So we are highly focused on leverage reduction and liquidity at this point.
And we are very confident that with the game plan in place even with kind of fits and starts to the economic growth that we will get to where we want to be.
But doing a share buyback given in the near term we would have to be accompanied by a couple other transactions including something like material asset sales.
LLC</strong> Is there anything though legally or in your covenants with any of your lenders that would prohibit you from doing something? No.
Your next question is from the line of Smedes Rose with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> This is Rob Simone stepping in for Smedes.
Most of our questions have been answered so far.
But I do have 2 follow-up questions.
Firstly that now that you've been -- now that you've begun to disclose property level information we were just looking at the Courtyard in Los Angeles with its EBITDA running down about 20% year-to-date.
Is there -- can you guys comment on whether or not there's something specific going on at that property or -- that might be causing that relative underperformance? Sure Rob.
Good question.
We appreciate you having the disclosures.
The Courtyard Los Angeles has been impacted directly as a result of a major renovation that we've had in place during the course of this year.
And we expect to see a complete reversal of that trend post-renovation.
If you get a chance if you can fly through LAX I encourage you to come and take a look at that property.
It really came out great.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And also secondly you mentioned before that I believe your group pace on the books for 2012 is trending down about 3.5% I believe and that's due to negative impacts in D.C.
and Baltimore.
But I was wondering if you could maybe expand on markets where you're seeing more positive group bookings.
Sure sure.
Let me take some high-level comments there and then I'll shift it over to Marc who's really right in the middle of this.
2012 pace is down a little over 3.5% at this point.
Much of that is on the occupancy side.
Current 2012 tentative booking pace is up a little over 6% so there's certainly a significant amount of tentative books -- tentative groups on the books that would flip that pace trend to positive if they were materialized.
D.C.
and Orlando and Baltimore I think comprise the biggest drag on 2012 performance.
But other markets if you look outside of D.C.
San Diego 2012 pace is up 14% with rooms up almost 10% and rate up 4.9%.
Our Marriott portfolio x D.C.
and Baltimore has paced up 3.2% which is 5.5% in rooms and a little over -- or a little bit -- about 2% down in average rate.
So clearly we've seen isolated incidents of same pace in 2012.
The booking trend in terms of tentative rooms certainly does more than bridge the softness gap in 2012.
And a number of our markets are showing very positive trends.
Marc do you have additional color? Sure Ken.
Again in specific markets again Ken mentioned San Diego our Hilton San Diego looks very strong.
Boston both our hotels in Boston and the one slightly outside city in Quincy is strong.
Boston as a city is going to have probably one of the strongest convention calendar years in a decade with citywide up considerably and room nights up 15%.
New York City is going to have a very strong citywide calendar next year with current attendance up 25%.
Our Houston hotels look very solid next year.
And our California hotels in our California corridor look reasonably solid for 2012 as well.
And our next question is from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> You touched a little bit about on dispositions.
But just curious why aren't you guys looking to sell some -- as you talk about really being to drive growth at some of the -- some of your bigger boxes why not sell off some more of the peripherals and pay up -- and pay down some debt? As we see -- specifically some of your suburban properties as you've moved more inside the city maybe in San Diego some of the ones that just doesn't make sense to put CapEx into them.
Michael good question.
And I should have been a little bit stronger in my prepared remarks with respect to dispositions.
Clearly assets sales at this point especially at peripheral properties is worth examining and is something that we are highly focused on at this point.
So stayed tuned.
We have nothing to report on asset sales but we totally agree with you that looking to call some of the assets from our portfolio in the current environment does make some sense.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Just looking where the share price is today I would agree with that.
Second of all looking at -- you talked a decent amount about CapEx.
Obviously you had elevated renovations this year.
Can you give us a sense as to what -- as you look at '12 what sources and uses could be on the CapEx front there? Sure I'll just give you a brief direction on 2012.
We haven't talked specifically about our 2012 plan and in fact we're still continuing to refine our renovation projects for the year.
So as I mentioned before in my broader comments strategically we'll look to maximize liquidity first and foremost.
It's a very positive fact with respect to Sunstone that we have completed the bulk of our desired renovation work already thus far this year.
So the 2012 program could be fairly low in terms of dollars expended for CapEx.
But at this point we're not prepared to provide any specifics.
LLC</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And finally no dividend again this quarter.
Based upon the guidance that you gave is there an expectation? Does that generate any taxable new income that would necessitate a dividend? Yes.
The guidance that we provided would result based on our math in taxable income.
And I'll shift it over to John to give you the specifics.
We have a buildup of -- well it's not perfect it helps the street to understand kind of what EBITDA level would generate taxable income for our portfolio.
John? Yes.
The easy benchmark to consider Sunstone given where we are now what the company looks now is earnings over $190 million of EBITDA which start to generate taxable income to the common shareholder.
So based on our current new guidance today you should assume that there will be some level of taxable income and therefore we'd be required to pay a dividend.
Our next question is from the line of David Loeb with Robert W.
Baird.
John I missed a little bit of the dividend comment and I just wonder if you could maybe go a little bit deeper into kind of what your thoughts are about the recurring common dividend? Are you really just planning to keep the common dividend as small as possible to keep within 100% payout of taxable income or do you have other thoughts on that as you balance that with deleveraging? Yes I think that leveraging is clearly a goal and we will evaluate the payment or the size of that dividend.
Clearly we have no interest in overpaying our dividend.
And as a general rule we just expect to distribute taxable income of 100% -- for 100% of our taxable income.
Is that where you're going with that David? Yes.
And also just trying to figure out whether you do recurring cash every quarter or what level you think is meaningful in terms of having an impact on the stock price.
But it sounds like your focus is really on paying out the least amount possible as opposed to establishing a strong yield for example? David this is Ken let me jump in on this one.
Our objective is to maximize stockholder returns while improving our financial flexibility and deleveraging the company.
So if you're looking at the release today we added a little bit language around the dividend.
You're exactly right that our goal here is to drive returns for the stockholders.
If the returns can be maximized to a healthy cash dividend you'll see us employ that type of a tactic.
But there are other angles that we can take on a dividend that we believe will drive the best returns for our stockholders.
You'll likely see us employ those types of tactics.
So no dividend declared this quarter.
Stay tuned for the -- for future declarations of dividends as well as the composition on the dividends.
But we're examining all alternatives there.
Okay.
And if I can take a third cut at the disposition question.
Can you give us an idea about how far you go how many assets or for example what kind of pricing you might be hoping to gain from asset sales over the next couple of years? Sure and again let me lead in the comments with my discussion from earlier in the conversation that we recognize that the market turbulence and the economic -- macroeconomic concerns are kind of weighing on mindsets as we sit on the call today.
We're not going to be reactionary in our tactics.
But clearly if we -- if sourcing liquidity and deleveraging the company is the goal which both of them are looking to source that liquidity through asset sales is definitely a viable strategy and we'll continue to analyze it.
And so you can take that to mean that that is absolutely something that we're spending a lot of time analyzing and that you'll probably hear more on that over the next couple of quarters.
Okay.
And then one specific on asset sales.
It looks like you sold the Salt Lake City laundry.
Can you give us a little more on order of magnitude of proceeds for that? And would you consider selling -- I guess that's a small laundry compared to Rochester.
That seems like a big one.
Would you consider selling that one as well? Okay on Salt Lake City that laundry was kind of vestige of our prior portfolio that we owned in Utah which at this point we only own the Park City asset.
And so that laundry was no longer core to the Utah market business.
It was a breakeven operation and we sold it for just barely nominal proceeds.
As far as the Rochester Longview facility that is integral to that portfolio.
It's a highly profitable laundry operation.
It does a lot of outside laundry for -- commercial laundry for the various entities in that market including the Mayo Clinic.
So no plan whatsoever to do anything other than  continue to maximize the performance of that Rochester laundry.
So other than the Rochester laundry are there any other non-hotel real estate holdings in the portfolio? Very little.
We have one or 2 smaller office buildings throughout the portfolio.
The only other non-real estate enterprise that we own is which is Buy Efficient which is a successful procurements operation which you may recall we purchased the outside 50% from the entity earlier this year.
So it's a wholly-owned subsidiary.
And the office buildings you're talking about 5 000 square feet or stuff that your occupy? No no.
More of the former 5 000-type square feet of offices.
So that was sort of incidental by acquisitions? That is correct.
And how about the Royal Palm note would you consider selling that as a way to pay off some [indiscernible]? Certainly.
The Royal Palm note just to remind the callers was what we believe is a very good piece of mortgage paper we took back on that sale.
The spread is $500 over a 1 point floor on LIBOR and that shifts up to 600 over in 2013.
And it benefits from completion guarantees et cetera et cetera.
We love the collateral.
We think it's a good piece of paper.
But certainly we also think it's a monetizable piece of paper and we would explore selling that one as part of our liquidity strategy.
Our next question is from the line of David Katz from Jefferies and Company.
Inc.</strong> I wanted to just go back to the issue of Sales Force One and if you could just talk -- I'm recognizing that it's not the most prominent portion of your business but if you could just put some detail around what challenges you've seen with it and what reactions and what you expect Marriott to change with it? That would be helpful.
Sure David.
Look Sales Force One has taken on kind of a mythical status at this point with the launch of a -- a lot of people picking up on it.
As I mentioned on my comments and Marc did as well it's certainly is a focus of ours.
But Marriott has been a very strong group business producer and we believe that with some recalibration and some adjustments to the program Sales Force One can be and frankly in our experience with Marriott will be a very successful initiative.
Let me shift it over to Marc specifically to talk about some of the tactics we've employed to ensure that it's beneficial to our hotels.
Look in some specifics we have worked with Marriott to actually add back a position called the Destination Sales Manager that we've now put back in 10 of our 13 hotels.
That job allows for there to be greater clarity to review funnels and the leads that are coming in.
And to really make sure that for our hotels that that potential group business is getting closed and the right people are being talked to.
In addition to that in some of our -- in our 3 larger hotel we're actually in the process of also adding back one or 2 individual sales managers in those hotels to be more proactive on new markets from that standpoint.
Look we continue to work with Marriott and have found Marriott to be very open as the manager.
And look at the end of the day they benefit just as much as we do from having this win and having revenues grow.
Inc.</strong> All right.
That -- just if I can follow that up does that cost you more? Or is that a reallocation of a resource? I think at this point it's both a reallocation and I guess in theory a potential slightly more cost.
But remember if we grow revenues and continue to grow it the costs really are just at the same percentage as they would exist for the -- for normal additional group room nights.
Our next question is from the line of Dennis Forst with KeyBanc.
I just didn't have any new questions.
I just wanted a little more granularity on some of the questions already asked.
First on transient Ken I think you said it was about 60% of your overall business? Yes.
And can you break that down between business transient leisure transient? Sure.
Let me shift you over to Marc he's got a very detailed table in front of him right now.
Most of our transient business is business in orientation.
As you know our portfolio is primarily urban-branded hotels which cater to the business travelers.
But we break it down not only between business transient and leisure we spend a lot more time focusing on premium bookings throughout the segmentation and within the business transient sector.
So Marc do you want to give Dennis some detail? Sure.
For Q2 2011 Group made up 30.9% of our business.
Transient made up 64.5%.
Business made up 30.7%.
Leisure made up 16.1%.
Government made up 3.4% and Contract made up 4.6%.
And again you saw what you would expect to see Contract business declined Government declined Leisure Premium was up and Corporate Premium and Benchmark was up as well.
Okay good.
The next one on the Royal Palms you're talking about taking back the paper.
Who is the current owner? Who's the debtor on that? So we sold the hotel to KSL.
And the asset itself it's a secured mortgage so secured by the asset.
It benefits from a completion guarantee on the renovation.
The non-recourse guarantor on the loan are certain entities within the KSL portfolio.
And then lastly you said that production was down 4.7% in the second quarter versus second quarter 2010.
Can you give us a little more color on that? Sure Dennis.
I'll shift it over to Marc for that but I'm glad you asked the question because we spent a lot of time talking about pace which is kind of a popular term.
Marc has appropriately shifted our focus to production which is less about what's on the books for the remainder of the current year or the subsequent year but more importantly about what are the sales teams producing for all future periods.
So let me shift it over to Marc to talk a little bit about the production trends that we're seeing and how we're focused -- focusing our asset management efforts to make sure that those production trends improve.
Great.
Just as Ken talked about again pace particularly over the last several years because of the movement the big swings can sometimes be disguised.
And so for us we look at what is the machine producing for both the current year and future years.
And so actually our production outside of 2 hotels D.C.
and Orlando for Q2 was actually up 7.3%.
Orlando had a basically very tough year-over-year comp with a particular piece of business that they booked last year that was a multi-year.
And D.C.
is soft currently with the 30% decline next year and most of the production decline there was really in '12.
The good news is that in D.C.
our current production and our booking pace in D.C.
reflects that hotel returning to peak and beyond peak performance in 2013.
And actually our Orlando hotel is actually ahead of pace for 2012.
So it's an interesting dichotomy that their production is down but their pace is ahead 6% in group room nights.
Okay.
Now I'm more confused.
What did -- give me a layman's definition of production and pace? Production is basically what the sales offices or sales teams book for all -- for the current year and all future years.
And pace is only a reflection of how a specific hotel fits compared to the same time last year for the year it's in or the following year.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Cruse for closing remarks.
Thanks Camille.
And thank you all again for your time today.
While these are clearly challenging times Sunstone is moving in the right direction.
Our business plan is structured well for the current environment and our team is focused on operational excellence and fiscal discipline.
We look forward to speaking to you in the coming weeks.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Sunstone Hotel Investors Second Quarter of 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for using ACT Conferencing.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Sunstone Hotel Investors Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Tuesday November 8.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Bryan Giglia Senior Vice President of Corporate Finance of the Sunstone Hotel Investors.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Allyssa and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
By now you should have all received a copy of our third quarter earnings release which was released yesterday.
If you do not yet have a copy you can access it on our website at www.sunstonehotels.com.
In addition to our scheduled quarterly release we have also provided a quarterly supplemental with additional disclosures including property level operating statistics.
The third quarter supplemental can also be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Before we begin this conference I would like to remind everyone that this call contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties including those described in our prospectuses 10-Qs 10-Ks and other filings with the SEC which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
We caution you to consider those factors in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
We also note that this call may contain non-GAAP financial information including EBITDA adjusted EBITDA FFO adjusted FFO and hotel EBITDA margins.
We are providing that information as a supplement to information prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
With us today are Ken Cruse President and Chief Executive Officer; Marc Hoffman Chief Operating Officer; and John Arabia Chief Operating Officer.
After our prepared remarks the team will be available to answer your questions.
I'd like to now turn the call over to Ken.
Ken please go ahead.
Thank you very much Bryan and thank you all for joining us.
Today I'll cover 3 topics.
First I'll provide some perspective on the current macro context and how it relates to our business and valuation.
Next I'll give some highlights regarding our third quarter performance.
And finally I'll make some comments on the disconnect between the industry fundamentals and public valuations.
After that Marc will cover operational details and John will review the recent finance and balance sheet initiatives as well as provide some additional color on our guidance.
I will then discuss the changes to our corporate governance structure before concluding our prepared remarks and opening up the call for your questions.
On the macro context as you are all well aware concerns over debt issues in the U.S.
and Europe reached new levels over the past 4 months.
These concerns triggered significant declines in the equity markets widening of credit spreads slowing of hotel deal flow and declines in business and consumer sentiment.
As you're also aware the U.S.
lodging industry is typically highly correlated with the U.S.
economy.
And while we don't discount many of the concerns regarding the global economy there is considerable evidence that the U.S.
economy and specifically the U.S.
lodging industry is in far better shape than the headlines portray.
Some examples U.S.
corporate profits are approaching all-time highs and businesses are sending travelers on the road in record numbers.
U.S.
corporate balance sheets and liquidity levels are strong.
The U.S.
cash-to-assets ratio is near an all-time high.
And U.S.
interest rates are near all-time lows which is a meaningful positive for capital intensive businesses such as ours.
And finally public company valuations reflect pessimistic outcomes implying considerable upside for equities once the macroeconomic context is put into more clear perspective.
This last point is especially true for lodging REITs where market valuations have been decimated over the past 4 months as a product risk of our selling.
Even as the fundamentals for our industry and the value of our underlying assets continue to improve with our already high occupancy levels coupled with increases in group pace and solid advances in negotiated accounts we are in a position to drive meaningful rate improvement.
As a result while there will inevitably be bumps in the road we believe 2012 and beyond will bring continued prolonged if moderate growth especially from well-located hotels and top U.S.
gateway markets.
In an environment in which demand grows even at a moderate pace interest rates remain very low and supply trends remain muted it will be materially beneficial to the value of our business.
So let's turn to our progress against our core business objectives of operational excellence measured balance sheet improvement and disciplined capital allocation.
With respect to operational excellence further validating my point that the headlines are disconnected from reality during the third quarter demand for our hotels accelerated.
Our Q3 group booking productivity was the highest it's been for 4 years and our 2012 booking pace improved to a positive 4% from a negative 2% the prior quarter.
Excluding D.C.
and Baltimore which will be impacted by isolated declines in year-over-year convention activity our 2012 pace is up 8.4%.
And finally sell-out nights for our portfolio reached a 5-year high in Q3 on a 50% year-over-year increase.
For the third quarter our portfolio RevPAR was up 8.6% to $129.07.
This compares well to industry-wide RevPAR growth of 6.1%.
Our solid RevPAR growth was driven by a 3.9% increase in rate and a 4.6% increase in occupancy.
Our portfolio occupancy grew to a healthy 78.1% in Q3.
At these occupancy levels we're able to shift our revenue management strategies into a high gear.
Demonstrating the growing strength and a high-rated demand transient business trends were strong during the quarter with premium room nights increasing 19% over Q3 of 2010 on an ADR increase of over 8%.
Underlying the effectiveness of our revenue management strategies our portfolio RevPAR index increased by approximately 200 basis points from 116 to 118 during the quarter.
And on the operational efficiency front our hotels generated 50% flow-through to EBITDA and achieved 150 basis points in hotel EBITDA margin expansion to 27.2%.
I should note that given our strong RevPAR performance we are not satisfied with this level of margin performance.
However it's worth noting that our EBITDA flow and margin performance were impacted by isolated factors during the quarter including contractual year-over-year wage increases in the San Diego Bayfront Hilton which impacted portfolio margins by 40 basis points and the now-completed renovation work at our Boston Marriott Long Wharf as well as the $500 000 reduction in cancelation fees as compared to Q3 2010.
Our corporate earnings reflected the strength of our operations.
Specifically our adjusted EBITDA of $52.4 million and our FFO per share of $0.20 both represented 33% growth over the levels achieved in Q3 of 2010 and both measures exceeded consensus.
Turning to our objective of measured balance sheet improvement as we've stated creating and protecting shareholder value while minimizing risks by maintaining liquidity and reducing leverage remain our key goals.
Accordingly we've recently reduced our leverage by refinancing our Doubletree Times Square mortgage and by eliminating our mortgage through a sale of a non-core hotel.
These 2 transactions reduced our overall indebtedness by more than $100 million subsequent to the quarter end.
We now hold unrestricted cash of approximately $150 million well in excess of our $95 million in debt maturities due April of 2015.
Additionally we hold 11 unencumbered hotels and our $150 million line of credit is completely undrawn.
And with respect to our disciplined capital allocation our goal is to continually enhance our portfolio quality through intelligent well-timed CapEx and capital recycling initiatives.
During Q3 we invested $17.7 million into our existing hotels bringing our year-to-date renovation investments up to $82.4 million.
During the quarter we completed 6 renovation projects including our reinvention of the Boston Marriott Long Wharf public space.
Through the Long Wharf project we've eliminated what was a very dated look and transformed the lobby and public space of this hotel into a much more modern and energized business and leisure environment.
And we converted an underutilized waterfront restaurant into a high profit potential waterfront meeting venue.
As evidenced by the better than 12% Q3 RevPAR growth achieved by the hotels for which we completed renovations during the first half of 2011 we expect the hotels we renovated in Q3 to generate outside its growth going forward.
Also on the capital allocation front subsequent to quarter end we bolstered liquidity by selling the Royal Palm note for approximately $79.2 million in net proceeds and we completed the previously announced sale of the 257 key Eugene Valley River Inn.
While this was a small transaction the sale enhanced our portfolio quality reduced our indebtedness and further improved our cash position.
So let me finish with a few comments on valuation.
By taking meaningful steps to improve our portfolio quality throughout the year our average hotel size has now 413 keys and based on our guidance range we expect our 2011 portfolio RevPAR to come in between $122 and $125 making ours one of the top institutional grade of upscale hotel portfolios in our space.
As our current equity price implies a per key valuation of less than $200 000 and forward portfolio cap rate in excess of 8% we believe in a clear and significant disconnect between public market valuations and warranted private asset values that currently exist.
We look forward to closing our value gap in the near future.
It's worth noting that the combination of our low share price and our capital gearing means that every $10 000 change in our per key valuation implies a substantial $1.10 improvement in our per share value.
Similarly every one-turn improvement in our EBITDA multiple implies an improvement in our per share value of $1.75.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Marc Hoffman to discuss our portfolio operations in greater detail.
Thank you Ken and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
I will review our portfolio's third quarter operating performance in greater detail provide an update on our recently completed and our in-process renovations and review some of our asset management initiatives.
All hotel information discussed today unless otherwise noted is for our 32 Hotel portfolio which includes on a pro forma basis all 2011 acquisitions Doubletree Guest Suites Times Square the JW Marriott New Orleans the Hilton San Diego Bayfront and excludes the Eugene Valley River Inn.
As indicated our comparable RevPAR increased 8.6% in the third quarter comprised of a 3.9% increase in average room rates and a 4.6% increase in rooms sold.
Our ADR growth is in part a result of increases in premium corporate and leisure room revenue and the reduction of discount segments.
In this quarter 28 of our 32 hotels had positive RevPAR with 14 of those hotels generating more than double-digit growth.
For more detailed information please reference Pages 27 and 28 of our earnings supplemental.
Looking at our group business virtually all of our 2011 group business is on the books at this time and our pace for the remainder of 2011 is up 7% over 2010 levels.
In Q3 our group booking production was up almost 30% compared to Q3 last year excluding the Hilton Bayfront which was still ramping up in 2010 and had a record production quarter in Q3 of 2010.
This was our highest third quarter group booking production in the last 4 years.
The future group room booking strength was led by the D.C.
Renaissance the JW Marriott New Orleans and the Marriott Houston.
Our full year 2012 group pace is positive 4% for the full 32 Hotel portfolio driven by strong booking pace at the Hilton San Diego Bayfront Marriott Long Wharf and Renaissance Orlando.
The D.C.
Renaissance and Baltimore Renaissance Hotels will be negatively affected in 2012 by the off calendar year in the D.C.
convention market.
Without these 2 hotels our 2012 booking pace for the remaining 30 hotels is up a positive 8.4%.
Furthermore this doesn't reflect the likely benefit we will realize in a number of transient hotels in 2012 especially in New York Chicago and Boston as a result of compression from strong convention calendars in those cities.
From a segmentation standpoint Q3 group revenues were up 4.1% driven by 2.9% increase in group ADR.
We also strong saw a strong increase in our transient rooms.
Our Q3 transient room revenue increased 11% to last year with a 6.6% increase in room nights.
In the third quarter our hotels had 609 sell-out nights compared to 408 last year based upon a 98% occupancy standard.
This is the highest number of sell-outs in 5 years for Q3 indicating our portfolio is operating at occupancy levels that will enable our operators to compress rates and capture a higher percentage of premium rated business moving forward.
Hilton Times Square and Embassy Suites Chicago both saw a significant increase in sell-out nights to name a few.
As an indication of both our ability to compress business into higher rated segment and the continued recovery in business demand in the third quarter our revenues from premium demand sources were strong with revenues increasing 29%.
ADR increased 8.4% and premium room nights increased an impressive 19%.
As hotels continue to mix shift their business into higher rated segments our corporate negotiated business remain basically flat in Q3 as we were able to close out our lower rated corporate negotiated channels in some of our higher occupancy hotels and push those customers of business into premium-rated segment.
Ken mentioned our focus on operational excellence.
Our asset managers are continuing to work closely with our management operators on a weekly basis to maximize hotel revenues and profits through nimble rate occupancy strategy shifts depending upon the changing market conditions.
In addition we continue to work with all our operators to ensure that as RevPAR increases operating expenses do not creep back in unless significant occupancy increases justify higher cost as we as asset managers agreed to those increases.
This strategy is a key driver to the successful quarter as many of our hotels were successful in controlling their expenses while occupancy continued to increase.
Our Houston hotels are beginning to see improvements this year as they have substantially completed their renovations and repositioning and now offer a competitive product.
Several of our eastern region hotels were impacted by Hurricane Irene.
Our overall RevPAR for Irene was affected by 55 basis points from lost room revenue during the hurricane.
We lost approximately $600 000 in property level EBITDA.
Our Marriott Long Wharf Doubletree Times Square Renaissance Baltimore were the most impacted by the hurricane.
The Renaissance Westchester saw a positive increase in revenue from the hurricane picking up support companies to assist the people from the hurricane.
As we've discussed before we undertook a large capital program in 2011.
We have completed all our projects on time on budget and with minimal disruption considering the amount and breadth of the work completed.
As Ken noted we are seeing positive impact from our renovations that we completed prior to the beginning of Q3.
The 9 hotels that were completed prior to the beginning of Q3 collectively had a RevPAR growth of 12.1% in Q3.
In fact 4 of our hotels that were totally reinvented earlier in the year the Courtyard LAX the Marriott Houston the Kahler Inn &amp; Suites and the Doubletree Minneapolis saw our combined Q3 RevPAR growth of nearly 24% over a time period that had no renovation disruption the prior year.
During the third quarter we completed the renovation at both the Marriott Long Wharf and the Hilton Houston and we have high expectations for both properties going forward.
Our last renovation project for 2011 will be the rooms at the Del Mar Marriott which will begin in December.
We do not expect any further displacement from renovations in these projects in 2011.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to John to discuss our balance sheet and financial initiatives.
Thank you Marc.
Good morning everyone.
Today I'll give you an overview of several topics including: First our liquidity and access to capital; second recent financing activities and our near-term debt maturities; and third details regarding our earnings guidance.
We'll start with liquidity.
Sunstone ended the third quarter with just over $223 million of cash including $160 million of unrestricted cash.
At the end of the quarter we completed 3 transactions that impacted our cash balance.
Those transactions include: first the refinancing of the Doubletree Times Square in which as previously announced we utilized $95 million of cash to repay the existing debt and to cover closing expenses; second the sale of the Royal Palm mortgage note generated cash proceeds of $79.2 million; and third closing the previously announced sale of Eugene Valley River Inn in which we netted approximately $5 million of cash and eliminated $11.5 million of indebtedness.
Adjusting for these transactions and portfolio cash flow subsequent to the end of the quarter our current cash balance stands at approximately $215 million including approximately $150 million of unrestricted cash.
In addition to our strong cash position we have an undrawn $150 million line of credit and we have 11 unencumbered assets that collectively are expected to generate over $40 million of EBITDA in 2011.
Let me make one point perfectly clear given our significant liquidity position the highly renovated state of our portfolio and our current share price the company does not need nor does the company currently intend to issue equity at current levels.
Our shares have been recently traded and implied forward-looking cap rate after deducting a contractual CapEx reserve in the low 8% to low 9% range.
While a small number of our hotels would likely trade at such a high cap rate the bulk of our portfolio warrants public market pricing while inside that implied cap rate range.
While share repurchases are not currently on the table as a result of our ongoing focus on leverage reduction buying our stock currently makes more sense than acquiring hotels or raising equity at the current share price.
Now let's move on to the recent financing activities in our near-term debt maturities.
As just mentioned we recently refinanced the Doubletree Times Square with a $180 million 7-year floating rate loan at LIBOR plus 325.
Over the past 3 months the credit markets have become more restrictive for hotel lending.
While small loans are still available for credit worthy borrowers it has become increasingly difficult to access loans over $100 million particularly for hotels in the secondary and tertiary markets.
Furthermore the cost of debt has increased by roughly 50 to 100 basis points over the same time period.
Despite a difficult lending environment we were able to leverage our lending relationships and a phenomenal piece of real estate to secure an attractive mortgage on the Doubletree Times Square.
The loan provides us with significant flexibility fills the hole in our debt maturity schedule in 2018 and maintains our variable rate debt exposure.
Following these recent transactions our debt has an average term to maturity of nearly 6 years an average interest rate below 5% and our variable rate debt as a percentage of total debt stands at 27%.
Based on the company's market capitalization at the end of the quarter our $95 million of debt maturities through early 2015 represents less than 5% of our enterprise value and is considerably less than the amount of our current unrestricted cash balance.
The completion of the Doubletree refinancing and the Royal Palm note sale have derisked the company eliminated significant refinancing risk over the last next 3.5 years and provided us plenty of time to work on deleveraging the company in a value-added and thoughtful manner.
For more information please refer to the debt and debt maturity schedules on Pages 20 and 21 of our supplemental disclosure.
At the end of the quarter Sunstone had $1.67 billion of consolidated debt which includes 100% of the $239 million mortgage secured by the Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
Adjusting for the debt attributed to our minority partners in this asset and the transactions completed subsequent to the end of the quarter our current pro rata debt balance is currently $1.52 billion.
Including the Valley River Inn transaction our total indebtedness declined by $107 million from the end of the second quarter.
Now let's turn to our updated earnings guidance.
We updated our full year earnings guidance to reflect the sale of the Royal Palm note and more modest growth expectations for operating fundamentals for the fourth quarter.
A full reconciliation of current guidance and adjusted prior guidance can be found on Pages 16 and 17 of our supplemental as well as in our earnings release.
Based on our full year RevPAR growth guidance of 6% to 8% our 2011 adjusted corporate level EBITDA would be between $204 million and $209 million and our FFO would be between $0.79 and $0.84 per share.
While we have witnessed anticipated pockets of weakness in October bookings for November and December remains strong.
However as Ken mentioned the heightened level of economic and geopolitical uncertainty warrant a dose of conservatism when it comes to short-term forecasting.
Accordingly we have maintained a conservative view towards the fourth quarter's operating fundamentals and earnings.
In particular fourth quarter RevPAR will be negatively impacted by isolated factors including a change to the Hilton HHonors redemption program at our Doubletree Times Square and lower year-over-year group business in San Diego and Baltimore.
We will provide 2012 guidance during our next earnings conference call in February.
That said we remain optimistic regarding the outlook for revenue and profit growth in 2012 as a result of positive group booking pace strong group booking production and healthy pricing pressure in many cities stemming from a high number of sold-out nights.
For those of you starting to sharpen the pencil on the 2012 quarterly earnings year-over-year RevPAR growth is likely to be strongest in the second quarter and softest in the first quarter due to current booking patterns at several of our large group hotels.
With that I'll turn it back over to Ken to wrap up our prepared remarks.
Thank you very much John.
I'd like to spend a moment on forward level changes we announced yesterday.
In short we believe these comprehensive changes further improve the alignment of our corporate governance structure with the interest of our shareholders while clearly establishing the management's autonomy with respect to running the business.
First Bob Alter has resigned as Executive Chairman effective as of yesterday and announced his retirement from Sunstone's Board effective in May of 2012.
From now until May of 2012 Bob will remain a Director on Sunstone's Board with the title of Chairman Emeritus and Founder.
Bob has announced that he will not stand for reelection to our Board of Directors in our May 2012 Annual Meeting.
On behalf of the entire Sunstone team we sincerely thank Bob for his many contributions to the company and for his leadership and mentorship over the last 16 years.
We appreciate the positive effects Bob has had on Sunstone's team portfolio and strategy and we wish him all the very best as he shifts his focus into his numerous outside business interests.
Second Lew Wolff will no longer serve as Co-Chairman but will remain a Director.
We also thank Lew for his many contributions to the company while he served as Co-Chairman of the Board.
Third Keith Locker who has been a Director for Sunstone for the last 5 years and who currently serves as Chair of our Strategic Planning and Capital Markets Committee has been named our new Independent Chairman of the Board.
During his term as Director Keith's extensive real estate and investment banking expense have been invaluable to the company.
Keith is CEO and Co-Founder of Inlet Capital LLC and has acted as an investor fund manager investment banker merchant banker and REIT expert for over 25 years.
Fourth we have added 2 new deeply experienced independent directors to our board.
Both bring to Sunstone an impressive REIT and lodging experience as well as demonstrated track records of creating meaningful shareholder value.
Joining our Board as of yesterday is Andy Batinovich who is Co-Founder of Glenborough Realty Trust and currently serves as President and Chief Executive Officer of Glenborough LLC a privately held full service real estate investment and management company focused on the acquisition management and leasing of institutional-quality commercial properties.
Andy is a member of several industry associations.
Also joining our Board as of yesterday is Doug Pasquale who was previously CEO and Chairman of the Board of Nationwide Health Properties until its sale to healthcare REIT Ventas early this year.
Doug currently serves as the Director on several boards including Ventas and is active in numerous industry groups.
Doug also previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Richfield Hospitality Services and Regal Hotels International-North America.
And finally Keith Russell a current director has been named the Chair of our Audit Committee and Jamie Behar also a current director has been named the Chair of our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
Before we open up the call to questions let me reiterate the framework of our balanced strategy.
First as you heard from Marc we will continue to seek ways to achieve superior operational performance in all of our hotels.
Second as John discussed we remain committed to maintaining appropriate levels of liquidity while methodically improving our balance sheet in ways that are additive to shareholder value.
And finally as I noted we will continue to improve our portfolio quality and growth profile by selectively recycling and allocating capital into attractive investment opportunities.
In spite of market challenges Sunstone is clearly moving in the right direction.
And while we delivered strong performance once again this quarter given our discount valuation it is clear to us that we must continue to make the correct decisions and execute on our business plan with discipline and consistency in order to build investor demand and unlock the significant value in our organization.
I want to thank the entire Sunstone team for all they've done and continue to do to advance our business objectives and I thank you for all your interest in Sunstone.
With that we'd like to open up the call to questions.
Alyssa please go ahead.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Jeff Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> First question just pertains to the change at the board level.
Can you maybe talk a little bit more about the process you ran to identify new board members? How comprehensive of a search it was? And who ultimately made the decision on the choices? So the question about the process to identify and add the 2 new independent directors to our board which we couldn't be more pleased with the outcome of that process.
We ran a fairly extensive exercise.
Many directors in our board had some ideas in terms of names.
We did employ or engage outside parties to vet out the candidates.
This went on for approximately 2 months or 1.5 months was the length of the process.
And in the end we distilled it down to these 2 candidates that we named today.
Once again we think that they're very additive to the company in terms of their depth of experience their industry background in terms of creating value for REIT investors and we think there's a good broadening of the capabilities of our board.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I guess in regards to that were you looking for somebody -- not just for the folks you brought on but also the change in leadership were you looking for someone with hotel experience real estate expense or even just experience with frankly selling companies I'm not saying that you're going to do that but have that background? How did you weigh those different? All fair to questions looking at my comments I mentioned that we're committed to finding ways to unlock value in this company.
So we do want -- we want to add industry professionals who have experience in doing just that.
And so having REIT experience and generating meaningful returns for the stockholders was the primary focus in terms of qualities we were looking for and Doug and Andy both embody those qualities.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I know it's early on but do you have a sense of how they're thinking about the appropriate level of leverage for the platform? I mean do you have an expectation that -- or any sense that they could share a different perspective on the direction we've been taking in the last 12 to 18 months? Or is it too early to say? No.
A good question Jeff.
Clearly we're looking for a Board of Directors that will challenge management's assumptions.
Management is responsible for developing the business plan and executing on the plan but we want a Board of Directors that will help us that vet that out.
We weren't looking for board members who are going to be "yes" people and I'm certain that nobody on our board is a "yes" person.
And that said I don't believe currently there exists any disconnect in the view of the company's leverage and where we should take the company in terms of our capital structure.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just one last question actually more on the operations side of things.
You gave some data about your 2012 bookings from what you can see today.
Is there a materially different view if you really just drill down -- I mean if you look at your supertanker hotels if you will in San Diego or New York I mean are you seeing materially different out of them that you're seeing in the aggregate? I'll give you a little bit of detail and I also want to share -- give the mic over to Marc Hoffman as well for a second.
As I mentioned in our call our pace is up about 4% next year.
That's mostly in room nights.
We are seeing good booking activity and I think the context is very important.
When you think about last quarter our pace was down 2%.
So just during the third quarter we increased our pace remarkably.
We just found out this morning that our D.C.
hotel was successful in booking approximately 11 000 room nights into 2012 which is as we've mentioned a couple of times the need period for that hotel.
So D.C.
has made up some ground but still D.C.
and Baltimore will be soft.
Interestingly if you exclude D.C.
and Renaissance from the pace numbers our portfolio pace is up approximately 12% made up of a 9.7% increase in occupancy and a 2% increase in rate.
So I would tell you those isolated markets which have very weak citywide business in 2012 were seeing good trends.
Marc why don't you add a little bit of additional color on that? Yes.
Thanks Ken.
Jeff the other positive for us is that where we have compression of hotels we have really strong city involvement next year.
As I think you're aware the City of Boston is very strong next year with a record number of citywides.
It will pass its ever historic peak of demand in the city.
2011 citywides were up by I think around 21 and room nights will be up as well.
2012 will have 26 conventions which is 5 more than 2011 and rooms are up 15.4% compared to 2011 which was down 17%.
New York citywides are up -- there are 23 major citywide conventions in 2011.
2012 that number is up to 29.
And in San Diego County 2012 citywides while they're down 3 to 57 the room night volume is up significantly and we expect San Diego to be very strong.
So from that standpoint sort if you take out D.C.
and Baltimore and what Ken talked about we had very positive October booking that we just heard about today the rest of our portfolio is spread very well.
And our next question comes from the line of Smedes Rose with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> John you had mentioned that RevPAR you were thinking as looking the weakest in the first quarter of '12 and strongest in the second.
Is that a function of seasonality or just of booking trends as you see them right now? No.
I'll turn this over to Marc really because he has more insight on that.
But really just the way group booking pace is winding up it shows that while we expect a strong year in '12 the first quarter is a little bit softer than normal.
Second quarter is stronger than normal.
And so we just wanted to highlight that for people's quarterly estimates once those start being provided.
Yes.
I mean just as both Ken and John said Q1 is looking to be down minus in the 3% to 6% range in group booking pace currently.
And that's sort of based upon the results we just got from D.C.
Q2 very strong.
We're plus 12.5%.
Q3 looks solid.
We're plus 7%.
And Q4 we're approximately flat in pace.
And the Q1 is heavily affected by D.C.
and Baltimore.
Without those 2 we would be up slightly.
So I didn't -- we did not calculate in these 11 000 rooms we just got in today.
So if they are dropping into Q1 it will make that much more improvement to Q1 as well.
And then -- so we continue most importantly to see a trend of improvement.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then I just was wondering if you could give any sort of parameters around CapEx for next year? Is it primarily just maintenance related or are there -- I think you mentioned the Del Mar Hilton starts at the end of this year.
Are there any sort of any larger projects for next year? Smedes it's Ken.
I'll take this one.
As you know we had a pretty front-end loaded CapEx calendar for 2011 and our portfolio is generally in a very good shape.
We do have a couple of projects that are lined up for 2012.
Specifically right now we're working on the rooms in the Marriott Del Mar and we've got project in Westchester for the rooms' renovation.
And then later on in the year the major one would be the D.C.
Renaissance which is an 800 room property.
We're going do a room preview there.
So -- but beyond that we're pretty ahead of the cycle in terms of the renovation projects for our portfolio.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is there a dollar amount that you can put on maybe the 3 of those combined or...
We're not yet going to put a dollar amount to it.
I would tell you it will be higher than our typical 4% range but it's not going to be as high next year as it was this year which we're estimating about $120 million this year.
And our next question comes from the line of Shaun Kelley with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to touch real quickly on during the prepared remarks there's a comment about some anticipated pockets of weakness in October.
Could you elaborate a little bit just on what you're seeing there and what markets those were referring to specifically? Sure Shaun.
I'll take this and I'll shift it back over to Marc.
This is Ken.
For the fourth quarter there are couple of noteworthy anomalies I would say within our portfolio.
Not just October but today that will affect our entire fourth quarter.
One is the Doubletree Times Square Hilton where the hotel just continues to fire on all cylinders and it's producing incredible growth on the RevPAR side.
But due to a change in the way the Hilton HHonors system it works this year.
The hotel will actually see a reduction in RevPAR toward the end of the fourth quarter just because the hotel was able to really book massive rates into the hotel during the -- in the Times Square -- into the year period.
So that was one piece of it.
You're also seeing just affecting October specifically softness in both D.C.
and Baltimore.
And this was just primarily group business on a year-over-year basis.
Marc do you want to add more color on it? Yes the only other thing is that would be of Rochester our Rochester hotels.
All of them have been soft and mostly because of the disturbance in our international business.
Our international business were heavily affected from the Mideast part of the world.
With the disturbance in the Mideast we've seen a significant drop in that business over the last 3 or 4 months.
We expect it to come back.
We just had a great piece of business short term that dropped in from Abu Dhabi.
So again that's probably the only other market to talk about.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's actually really helpful.
And then second was just on New York.
And the idea there we could do get a lot of questions about impact or supply particularly at some maybe the seasonally light first quarter.
Just kind of generally speaking your viewpoints on what you guys are seeing for the first quarter next year and how much you think you might be affected there.
And is that factored into I guess a slightly more conservative stance around kind of Q1 as we think about seasonality? No.
Our New York properties didn't factor into our conservative view on Q1.
That's more group related for the big boxes primarily D.C.
As far as supply in New York City we're not particularly concerned about supply.
Our 2 hotels saw a combined -- RevPAR growth is 13.9% in Q3 and the Hilton ran 95.4% occupancy and the Doubletree ran 98.3% occupancy.
So clearly there's a lot of headlines about supply in New York City.
We've got incredibly well located hotels that have a competitive advantage in terms of their room size not just their location but their room size.
So the Doubletree has 540-square-foot rooms and the Hilton -- it all has 350-square-foot rooms.
Most of the properties that you see come on at the market are kind of in the 200-square-foot room range.
So I believe we'll continue to enjoy the locational and just property quality advantage over the new supply.
And there are a couple of hotels coming on.
You saw an announcement that the Hyatt one of the 7 empires would be coming onto the Times Square market.
We'll watch that one closely.
But again we think that given the location of our properties and just the fact that demand seems to radiate out from the core market of Times Square we feel very well protected.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Then one just kind of a smaller digging in on that one more level would be any changes out of -- specifically I imagine that you get this international traffic into some the hotels on the transient side.
Any changes out of particularly Europe from the demand side that you guys have seen in either Q3 or in October? We watched that fairly closely and I would say that the international demand turns have been fairly consistent in the Times Square market.
Marc mentioned international business at the -- in our Rochester portfolio.
That's actually what we call our hotel within a hotel.
It's a luxury property within the Kahler Grand at the international.
Coincidentally much of the business for that particular hotel within a hotel does come from the Middle East and that's where we'd seen a softening in demand.
But that's really specific to that market.
And we do believe that that's just a very lumpy business for that property.
And we have a question from the line of Enrique Torres with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You talked a little about the 12 good grade pays.
Can you give us a little bit of color on how these are looking a little further out in '13 and '14? And if you're seeing any particular splits between corporate side and the leisure side? Yes.
I'll start and just hand it over to Marc.
What we've seen is as we touched on during the call record productivity from our booking engines and that really relates -- productivity refers to all future periods.
So we've seen quite a bit of booking not only in the 2012 but for the bigger box hotels where the booking goes into 2013 and beyond.
So right now we do have a couple of markets that are on our radar screen for 2013.
But generally we're seeing very good booking trends into that year.
Marc can I ask you for a little bit more color commentary? Yes.
Enrique it would be all group driven because obviously business transient doesn't book out that far at all.
So from a standpoint of group pace our group pace into '13 and '14 is fine and we've got good pace.
The x superior pace base in our D.C.
and Baltimore markets coming off of the weakness of '12 they look terrific also because remember you're going to have an inauguration.
And even if there's no change in administration the first year of the administration is always a big year in D.C.
That will help push off into Baltimore.
Orlando looks good in '13.
So in general our '13 numbers look good.
And '14 still far enough out that if we have concerns we're not overly concerned about filling the holes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's helpful.
And then a question on kind of your disposition plan.
It seems like you have an opportunity to do something similar to what DiamondRock has been doing in terms of selling assets that are highly leveraged and using that as a way to adjust the deleveraging strategy.
What confidence or what was your view on the pricing they achieved on their 3 assets? And does that provide increased kind of confidence in your ability to execute dispositions in the near term? Okay.
Look we congratulate DiamondRock on that sales.
I think it was a really good execution.
Pricing was very attractive from our perspective.
They priced at about 7.5% cap rate.
And as we talked about in our prepared remarks our company is trading at close to an 8.5% cap rate.
So clearly that was very good execution.
And as we touched on briefly in our prepared remarks our focus clearly has shifted to carefully divesting of assets where we can give similar execution on the trade especially where we can continue to advance our deleveraging objective at the same time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Are you guys marketing at the current time? We have typically pursued that first but we don't go to the marketing channels when we sell hotels.
We do have several assets that are -- that we're considering making moves on.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Salinski with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I think you mentioned 2% up for 2012 in terms of group bookings.
How much of that -- how much of your targeted booking activity is in the books right now? So we actually mentioned 4% up in terms of group pace for 2012.
And as far as what's on the books right now the big box hotels have -- which is really the ones that you want to look at for our portfolio have approximately 83% of their group rooms on the books at this point.
And for the smaller hotels many of the assets actually booked many of the rooms in the year for the year.
So I think the better way to think of it is the pace numbers.
And our pace is as we mentioned ahead of last year's levels by about 4%.
Let me shift it over to Marc for additional color.
Yes.
Typically what you do is you look at crossover goal let's say is how the hotels crossover on December 31.
Since obviously we're 2 months ahead of that timeframe we look at that every single month.
So we currently have approximately 575 000 group rooms on the books for 2012 which is approximately 16 000 more rooms in the same time last year.
That doesn't include this very strong booking we had from the Washington D.C.
area.
So from that standpoint we are pacing well compared to where we think we need to be by year end.
And again as Ken said the majority of our smaller hotels book 80% of their business in the year for the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
A second question.
Can you talk a little bit about how the JW Marriott is performing there in New Orleans given a new Hyatt opened there? Yes.
The performance of JW has been very -- has been solid and we have a very good third quarter with the hotel.
And booking pace for next year is basically flat.
And we expect the hotel to do very well.
We do have a large renovation plan which is all designed but we're in a timing process of it now to ensure we don't have any disturbance.
And we have a question from the line of Josh Attie with Citi.
Research Division</strong> What's the $65 million of restricted cash on the balance sheet? And how accessible is that to the company? The $65 million of restricted cash typically relates to FF&amp;E reserves but there are also lender reserves in that amount.
Most of our loans have some sort of -- whether their property tax or insurance reserves.
And that number is pretty static at that level $65 million.
Beyond that there are no deal deposits or what have you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And could you just explain the Doubletree Times Square impact in the fourth quarter on RevPAR? Is that just an accounting issue? Or are you actually getting less earnings from the hotel in the fourth quarter because of something related to their guest loyalty program? Yes.
So I'll be specific on this.
On the Hilton on its HHonors program they changed the way that the math works.
They do typically on a year-by-year basis.
And so the way that the math works materially impacted the way that the Doubletree in Times Square would book its rooms over the -- particularly over the New Year's Eve time period.
The net effect of that is it will be a real reduction in RevPAR for that hotel.
We calculate it to be approximately 11% reduction as an impact of that particular program change.
It affects our fourth quarter portfolio RevPAR by about 1.3% on a portfolio-wide basis that was a material change to the program.
It was a 1-year type change and it was something that we contemplated when we acquired the hotel.
But it does -- it's important that the Street notes that that change is coming and it will distort the numbers in the fourth quarter a slight bit.
Research Division</strong> So does that mean that more rooms go -- people can use their points for those rooms and see you don't get as much revenue for it? Essentially that's how the change will work.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And is that a permanent change? Or does that -- is it just this year and reverses next year? The program is going to be refined on a year-over-year basis.
And so who knows what the changes will be next year? But our assumption is that this will be a permanent change to the program.
It doesn't really affect the run rate of the hotel and it certainly did not affect our underwriting.
It's just a year-over-year anomaly in terms of what the headline RevPAR number is going to look like.
Our next question comes from the line of David Katz with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to -- what I'm trying to figure out and taking perhaps an unspecific but long term view on this.
I'm trying to figure out what the margin opportunity is within the portfolio as it sits today.
Taking Ken's commentary earlier about market multiples or stock valuations et cetera trying to see where this EBITDA ultimately could be headed and obviously it's all in the context of limited visibility on the top line for the next couple of years.
But what can you offer to sort of help me hash out the ultimate margin opportunity for the portfolio today? Okay.
Sure David.
Look we think the margin opportunity is pretty profound.
You may have heard me reference this on prior calls.
I didn't do it on today's call because we've been hitting this one pretty hard but we focus on operational efficiency very very deeply.
And if you look at the trough margin performance for our portfolio just comparing the 2009 trough to the 2003 trough our portfolio on a same-store basis performed at 230 basis points higher than margins.
And so our focus right now is to preserve that margin efficiency going forward and drive conservatively higher margins as we move into 2012 and beyond.
Peak margins for our portfolio were just about 30%.
As we talked about before on to the third quarter this year we achieved a 27% EBITDA margin.
We see our portfolio achieving higher than peak margins going forward.
And our expectation is we'll likely achieve those margins potentially before we achieve peak revenues.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So it sounds like what we're saying is that there's at a minimum of 300 basis point margin opportunity just to get back to the prior peak.
Yes.
And we have a question from the line of Dennis Forst with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> In fact most of my questions have been answered.
I still wanted to bug you a little bit Ken about that Hilton HHonors situation at the Doubletree.
Does that mean that rooms booked using points do not count towards the RevPAR? You said they would impact the whole portfolio 1.3 percentage points from the fourth quarter.
.
Yes.
So the way it works -- the way it worked last year was that there was no limit in terms of the rooms that you could take in terms of redemption rooms.
And they've increased that limit.
And so what happens is we booked RevPAR for the redemption rooms at the prevailing RevPAR rate for that night.
And last year for the New Year's time period the hotel generated significant RevPAR number primarily by virtue of a quirk in the program.
And Hilton has adjusted that program.
This was by the way prior to our period of ownership.
Hilton's adjusted that program at this point.
And so now I think the hotel will not see an ability to drive quite as high of a RevPAR number on the New Year's time period.
So we may be being conservative with our estimates for the reduction but we thought it was important to point out to the investors that you will see a change in the year-over-year numbers on the RevPAR for that property.
Research Division</strong> And is it so significant because it is Times Square and it is New Year's Eve? Or will this change impact all Hilton hotels and everybody's portfolio? No no no.
It's very specific to this property because it is Times Square because it is New Year's Eve and because they are 540-square-foot rooms.
That's a hugely in-demand property on New Year's Eve.
And just a change in the program does marginally -- or does materially actually affect this property's ability to drive RevPAR on that one day of the year.
Gentlemen I show no further questions at this time.
Please continue.
Thank you very much Alyssa and thank you all for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking with you in Dallas or in New York or if not on our next quarterly call in February.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes our call for today.
Thank you very much for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Sunset (sic) [Sunstone] Hotel Investors Fourth Quarter and Full-year 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Wednesday February 22.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to Bryan Giglia Senior Vice President of Corporate Finance of Sunstone Hotel Investors.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Amaryllis.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
By now you should have all received a copy of our fourth quarter's earnings release which was released yesterday after the close of market.
If you do not yet have a copy you can access it on our website at www.sunstonehotels.com.
In addition to our scheduled quarterly release we also have provided a quarterly supplemental with additional disclosures including property level operating statistics.
The fourth quarter supplemental can also be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that this call contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties including those described in our prospectuses 10-Qs 10-Ks and other filings with the SEC which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
We caution you to consider those factors in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
We also note that this call may contain non-GAAP financial information including EBITDA adjusted EBITDA FFO adjusted FFO and Hotel EBITDA margins.
We are providing that information as a supplement to information prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
With us today are Ken Cruse President and Chief Executive Officer; Marc Hoffman Chief Operating Officer; and John Arabia Chief Financial Officer.
After our prepared remarks the team will be available to answer your questions.
I'd like to now turn the call over to Ken.
Ken please go ahead.
Thanks Bryan and thank you all for joining us today.
On today's call I'll cover some the high points from our fourth quarter and full-year before reviewing some of the details of our long-term strategy.
Marc will then cover operations in detail and John will discuss our balance sheet finance transactions and guidance before I wrap up our prepared remarks with a discussion on our priorities with respect to future operating cash flows.
So let's get started.
The fourth quarter capped a significant year for Sunstone.
By way of highlights in 2011 as compared to 2010 our corporate revenues grew by 34% to $835 million.
Our adjusted EBITDA also grew by 34% to $212.5 million.
Our adjusted FFO per share grew 53% to $0.87.
During the year we added roughly $900 million of high-quality hotels to our portfolio all of which performed ahead of underwriting in 2011.
We also completed over $100 million of capital investments into our existing portfolio in 2011.
And we materially refined our corporate governance structure policies and protocol.
And finally we assembled a new leadership team and developed a balanced and focused strategy.
2011 was clearly a transitional year for Sunstone and we expect 2012 will be a year in which we build positive momentum.
But before we shift to our long-term plan I'd like to spend a moment drilling down into the details of 2011.
For the fourth quarter our fourth quarter RevPAR was up 5.9% to $123.36 driven by a 5.3% increase in occupancy which grew to 72.1%.
As expected due largely to a program change at our Doubletree Times Square and softness in our Washington Baltimore properties [indiscernible] for our portfolio in the fourth quarter was essentially flat up 0.6% as compared to Q4 2010.
For the full year 2011 our portfolio RevPAR was up 7.2% to $123.91.
Our 2011 RevPAR growth was driven by a balanced 3.5% increase in rate and a 3.6% increase in occupancy.
For the full year our portfolio occupancy grew to a healthy 74.3%.
At these occupancy levels our operators will be able to continue to increase rates and shift mix to higher rated business as we move into 2012 and beyond.
Throughout the year we saw a steadily increasing demand.
In fact in the fourth quarter our portfolio's group booking productivity was the highest it's been in 4 years and our full-year group production was 7% higher in 2011 than it was in 2010.
This stronger productivity translated into solid improvements in 2012 pace which improved to a positive 4.5% for our entire portfolio during the fourth quarter.
And this is a slight improvement over the 4% pace we noted during our third quarter call.
In addition to the strong group pace we also saw continued success in our negotiated accounts.
In many instances our operators have successfully locked in 2012 negotiated rates at levels that are 3% to 5% above 2012 2011 levels.
And some of our key markets such as New York and San Diego we're seeing accounts locked rate increases in excess of 8% above 2011 levels.
And in many instances our operators are successfully eliminating special contract concessions such as last room availability.
This is another solid leading indicator for continued strength in demand and pricing power in 2012 and beyond.
Further demonstrating the growing strength in lodging demand transient business trends were healthy during the fourth quarter with premium room nights increasing 4.1% over Q4 2010 on an ADR increase of over 6%.
Transient business trends were healthy as well for the full year with premium room nights increasing approximately 10% over full-year 2010 on an ADR increase of over 7%.
The positive transient trend has continued in the first quarter of this year with our portfolio RevPAR up nearly 6% through mid-February in spite of isolated group softness in our D.C.
and Baltimore hotels which negatively impacted quarter-to-date RevPAR growth by approximately 300 basis points.
Based on the strength of transient demand quarter to date our bias is currently toward the high end of our Q1 guidance.
The positive demand from transient business travelers helped to drive portfolio sellout nights in Q4 similar to the trend we saw in the second and third quarters.
And our fourth quarter the number of sellout nights for our portfolio reached to a 5-year high with a 60% year-over-year increase.
While as I noted earlier our rate trend was generally flat in the fourth quarter.
Our hotels are now generally approaching occupancy levels where they should gain meaningful pricing power.
Shifting to operational efficiency our hotels generated 46% flow through to EBITDA and achieved a 90 basis point margin improvement during the fourth quarter with margins expanding to 28.7%.
While our operating efficiency did improve in the quarter as our prior peak margins were over 30% we know we can do better on the margin side especially considering the efficiency measures we have implemented over the past several years.
It's worth noting that our EBITDA flow and margin performance were negatively impacted by certain isolated factors during the fourth quarter.
First as I noted nearly all of our growth in the fourth quarter came in the form of occupancy rather than rate which naturally mutes flow.
Additionally as expected contractual year-over-year wage and benefit increases in our San Diego Hilton Bayfront dampened margin improvement.
For the full year our hotels generated 45.3% flow through to EBITDA and achieved 130 basis points in hotel EBITDA margin expansion to 27.8%.
With the very strong demand trends we're seeing and occupancies nearing peak levels again we expect to see strong conversion of incremental revenues into incremental profits as we move forward.
Shifting to earnings.
Our stronger than anticipated operating results and lower than anticipated corporate expenses drove better-than-expected fourth quarter corporate earnings.
Specifically our adjusted EBITDA of $63.9 million and our adjusted FFO per share of $0.29 both represented greater than 40% growth over the levels achieved in Q4 of 2010 and both measures exceeded our internal forecast and the consensus estimate on the strength and quality of our operations.
Turning to our balance sheet as we've stated we intend to gradually reduce our leverage in a measured and shareholder-friendly way.
To this end during 2011 we improved our credit statistics while maintaining significant liquidity good growth in our operations scheduled amortization collective debt repayments and the sale of a leveraged non-core asset.
Continuing our commitment to methodically de-lever in February we repurchased 4.5 million of our 4.6% exchangeable notes.
We ended the year with a very strong liquidity position with $218 million in cash and nothing drawn on our corporate revolver.
So looking ahead in contrast to the pessimistic macroeconomic backdrop lodging industry fundamentals have materially strengthened over the past year and are now highly constructive.
Supply trends and capital costs are at historic lows while lodging demand continues to build with groups booking and business travelers hitting the road in record numbers.
Lodging industry leading indicators unquestionably point toward prolonged growth going forward.
And our portfolio is clearly well positioned to capitalize on the recovery.
Just as we've seen during prior cyclical recoveries we are confident that our hotels will generate EBITDA well in excess of prior peak levels over the next few years.
By taking meaningful steps to improve our portfolio quality throughout 2011 ours is now one of the top institutional-grade upper-scale hotel portfolios in our space.
Our average hotel size is now 413 keys.
The majority of our hotels are recently renovated and in very good condition and our primary exposures are to the top urban growth centers in the U.S.
While our 2011 hotel EBITDA per key exceeded $18 000 at today's share price our portfolio currently trades at less than $230 000 per key.
We couldn't be more confident in Sunstone's upside opportunity in terms of value and earnings growth from this point forward.
Now it's our job to unlock our portfolio's full potential.
And to this end we are confidently executing on a strategic plan oriented around the following 4 components: Proactive portfolio management intensive asset management disciplined external growth and measured balance sheet improvement.
Let me spend a minute on each component of our strategy.
Our portfolio management strategy entails maximizing the long-term value and scale of our entire portfolio by building exposure to key growth markets reducing exposure to weak markets brands and asset types.
Additionally our portfolio management strategy ensures that our key value-adding initiatives such as energy management programs and green initiatives and operating best practices are effectively leveraged on a company-wide basis.
Our asset management strategy management strategy calls for aggressively maximizing individual hotel profitability by developing asset-specific revenue management strategies and efficiency measures and by carefully managing our hotel level capital investments.
We've developed specific business plans for each of our hotels and each of our asset managers is accountable for executing on these plans.
Our growth strategy calls for disciplined acquisitions and opportunistic dispositions of non-core hotels in ways that will compliment our existing portfolio in terms of scale quality and growth while improving shareholder value and our credit profile.
To be clear unless an acquisition will improve portfolio quality credit statistics and our internal estimate of NAV per share we won't transact.
And finally our balance sheet strategy calls for gradual de-leveraging in a measured shareholder-friendly way which is by utilizing excess cash flow to repay debt rather than instituting significant cash dividends at this time as well as funding acquisitions principally using equity issued at attractive relative valuations.
Coming up we couldn't be more excited about Sunstone's future.
We are well positioned for growth and we are confidently and enthusiastically executing on a balanced strategy designed to leverage the strengths of our team capitalize on Sunstone's unique value opportunity reduce our weighted average cost of capital and establish Sunstone into the top lodging -- as the top lodging REIT in terms of portfolio quality and total shareholder returns.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Marc Hoffman to discuss our portfolio operations in greater detail.
Thank you Ken and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
I will review our portfolio's fourth quarter and full year operating performance in greater detail review some of our asset management initiatives and preview 2012 major CapEx projections.
All hotel information discussed today unless otherwise noted is for our 32 Hotel portfolio which includes on a pro forma basis all 2011 acquisitions including the Doubletree Guest Suites Times Square the JW Marriott New Orleans and the Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
In the fourth quarter 13 of our hotels generated double-digit RevPAR growth including our 2 Houston hotels Times Square Hilton the Embassy Suites Chicago and the Tysons Corner Marriott to name a few.
As previously noted a change in the Hilton HHonors redemption policy negatively impacted the Doubletree Guest Suites during the fourth quarter.
But strong demand trends throughout the quarter partially offset the impact of the Hilton HHonors policy change and as a result the Doubletree Times Square performed better in the fourth quarter than we had anticipated.
The modification to the Hilton HHonors plan resulted in a 70 basis point negative impact to Q4 portfolio RevPAR growth as opposed to the expected 130 basis point negative impact we noted on the prior call.
For more detailed information please reference Page 25 of our earnings supplemental.
In 2011 30 of our 32 hotels had positive RevPAR with 8 of those hotels generating more than double-digit growth including our 1 190 room Hilton San Diego Bayfront the recently renovated Chicago Embassy Suites and Times Square Hilton.
From a total rooms segmentation standpoint in Q4 group revenues were up 2.4% with a 1.2% increase in group ADR.
Q4 transient room revenue increased 6.8% to last year with a 5.18% increase in room nights and a 1.3% increase in ADR.
In Q4 our hotels had 459 sellout nights compared to 287 sellout nights in the fourth quarter of 2010 based upon a 98% occupancy standard showing the continued signs of strengthening demand in our portfolio.
Similar to Q3 this is the highest number of sellouts in 5 years for Q4 indicating our portfolio is operating at occupancy levels that will enable our operators to compress rates and capture a higher percentage of premium-rated business in 2012 and beyond.
Hilton Times Square Doubletree Times Square Sheraton Cerritos and Renaissance Baltimore all saw significant increases in sellout room nights.
Before I discuss our group business let me take a minute to make a few clarifications.
As Ken noted when we analyze future group business we look at 2 metrics.
One group pace; and two group production.
Group pace refers to group revenue on the books for a specified time period.
Pace is typically compared to the pace at the same time the prior year for its corresponding year-over-year periods.
Group production measures the total number of room nights booked during the current period for all future periods whether they be quarters or years.
As noted our 2012 group pace is up 4.5% over 2011 levels all this coming from additional group room nights.
The D.C.
Renaissance and Baltimore Renaissance Hotels will be negatively affected in 2012 by a significant off calendar year in the D.C.
convention market.
With these 2 hotels -- of these 2 hotels our 2012 booking pace for our remaining 30 hotels is up a very positive 11%.
Our Q4 -- in Q4 our group booking production was up 12.1% compared to Q4 last year excluding the Hilton San Diego Bayfront which was still ramping up in 2010.
This was our highest fourth quarter group booking production in the last 4 years for these 31 hotels.
For the full year group production for these 31 hotels excluding Hilton San Diego Bayfront was 956 000 group rooms.
This represents a 9.2% increase over 2010 a 29% increase over 2009 is equal to the production of 2008 and is only off 3% from our peak booking year of 2007.
In addition to positive pace trends in our group hotels a number of transient hotels especially in New York Chicago and Boston will benefit from strong convention calendars in those cities.
As an indication of both our operators' ability to compress business into higher-rated segments and the continued recovery in business demand in the fourth quarter our revenues from previous -- premium demand sources were strong with revenues increases 10.6% with ADR increasing 6.2% and premium room nights increasing 4.1%.
As hotels continue to mix shift their business into higher-rated segments our corporate negotiated business remained basically flat at plus 1% in Q4 as we were able to close out our lower-rated corporate-negotiated channels in some of our higher occupancy hotels and push those customers of business into premium-rated business.
Our asset managers continue to work closely with our managers and operators on a weekly basis to maximize hotel room strategies and profits through nimble rate and occupancy strategies shifts depending on the changing market conditions street corner by street corner.
In addition we continue to work with all our operators to ensure that as RevPAR increases operating expenses do not creep back in unless significant occupancy increases justify higher costs as we as asset managers agree to those increases.
Moving to CapEx.
In 2011 we completed 13 [indiscernible] renovations which generated strong post-renovation growth and also resulted in approximately $2 million of revenue displacement.
We are seeing positive impact from our renovations that we completed in 2011.
The 13 hotels that had significant renovations during 2011 collectively had RevPAR growth of 10.5% in Q4.
In fact 4 of our hotels that were totally renovated earlier in the year the Courtyard LAX Marriott Houston Kahler Inn &amp; Suites and Doubletree Minneapolis generated a combined Q4 RevPAR growth of 17.5% over Q4 of 2010 a time period that had no renovation disruption.
In 2012 we expect to invest between $85 million and $100 million into the portfolio including major renovations of our Westchester Renaissance and Hyatt Newport Beach.
Our most significant investment will be for all the complete rooms bathrooms and corridor renovations of the 807-room Renaissance Washington D.C.
which we are budgeting at $25 million.
Overall we expect to incur approximately $3 million to $5 million in renovation-related revenue displacement during 2012 just roughly $1 million to $3 million higher than the displacement we incurred in 2011.
In 2012 our asset management team will continue to roll out our successful gastro-bar concepts at the Westchester Renaissance which will result in the addition of 5 000 square feet of function space as well as the Tysons Corner Marriott both of these will occur in Q4 of 2012.
Throughout 2012 we expect to complete total hotel energy audits at 50% of our portfolio which we expect to result in between $5 million to $7 million of energy-related ROI investments.
With that I'll turn the call over to John.
John please go ahead.
Thank you Marc.
Good morning everyone.
Today I'll give you an overview of several topics including first our liquidity and access to capital; second recently completed and anticipated finance transactions; and third details regarding our earnings guidance.
With respect to liquidity Sunstone ended 2011 with just over $218 million of cash including $150 million of unrestricted cash.
We expect to utilize the bulk of our excess cash during the course of 2012 primarily to fund debt production according to our stated plan to methodically de-lever our balance sheet.
In addition to our strong cash position we have an undrawn $150 million line of credit and 12 unencumbered assets that collectively generated $40 million of EBITDA in 2011.
Our unrestricted cash balance of $150 million exceeds the $90 million total of all of our debt maturities through early 2015.
As detailed on Page 20 of our investor supplemental these near-term debt maturities include the $32 million mortgage on the Renaissance Long Beach which matures this July and the remaining $58 million of Exchangeable Senior Notes which are likely to be put to us next January.
As detailed in our press release earlier this month we repurchased 4.5 million of our exchangeable notes at a price of 101.5% of PAR.
While the transaction was very small it is consistent with our objective of reducing leverage.
Furthermore we've been maintaining a higher-than-normal cash balance in order to pay off both the Renaissance Long Beach mortgage and the remaining exchangeable notes within the next 12 months.
At the end of the year Sunstone had $1.57 billion of consolidated debt which includes 100% of the $238 million mortgage secured by the Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
Adjusting for the debt attributed to our minority partners in this asset and the transactions completed subsequent to the end of the year our pro rata debt balance is currently $1.51 billion.
Our debt has an average term to maturity of nearly 6 years and average interest rate of approximately 5% and our variable rate debt as a percentage of total debt stands at 27%.
Our $90 million of debt maturities through early 2015 represents approximately 3% of our current enterprise value and again we hold more unrestricted cash than the sum of all of our near-term debt maturities.
Now let's turn to our updated earnings guidance.
This quarter we've expanded our practice to include guidance for the upcoming quarter in addition to providing guidance for the full year.
A full reconciliation of our current guidance can be found on Pages 16 and 17 of our supplemental as well as in our earnings release.
We expect first quarter 2012 RevPAR growth of 3% to 5% with adjusted EBITDA between $38 million and $40 million and adjusted FFO per share between $0.07 and $0.09.
Based on the quarter-to-date RevPAR figures that Ken noted earlier we are biased towards the high end of our first quarter guidance range.
Keep in mind that our first quarter is typically our softest quarter in terms of seasonality and property level cash flows.
Furthermore while our first quarter has some identifiable holes in group business our second and third quarters are looking particularly strong from a group perspective.
We expect full-year 2012 RevPAR growth of 4% to 6% with adjusted EBITDA between $223 million and $235 million and adjusted FFO per share between $0.90 and $1.
As Marc noted we expect full year RevPAR will be negatively impacted by isolated factors including soft group business in both Washington D.C.
and Baltimore as well as approximately $3 million to $5 million of hotel revenue displacement from our 2012 renovations specifically the Renaissance D.C.
and the Renaissance Westchester.
This compares to revenue renovation disruption of approximately $2 million in 2011.
That said we remain optimistic regarding the outlook for revenue and profit growth in 2012 as a result of positive group booking pace strong group booking production and healthy pricing pressure in many cities stemming from a high number of sold-out room nights.
Moreover as occupancy strengthens into 2012 in a backdrop of anemic supply growth pricing pressure is likely to intensify which is likely to result in a re-acceleration of RevPAR growth in the future.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Ken to wrap up our prepared remarks.
Thank you very much John.
I'd like to spend my last few minutes on our operating cash flow allocation policy.
As we've stated we believe we will maximize shareholder returns by gradually reducing our leverage and smartly growing our portfolio scale and quality.
Paying cash flow out of the system would be directly counterproductive to those goals.
Accordingly in addition to naturally de-leveraging through improving operations going forward we intend to utilize a significant portion of our operating cash flow to repay debt rather than pay significant cash dividends.
While this approach will distinguish us from many of our peers as most of you understand cash dividends do not create value they simply transfer value.
And in our case retaining that value within the system is the most prudent course.
In our opinion significant cash dividends make sense for companies that are mature stable and have achieved their growth and balance sheet objectives.
In our case directing as much operating cash flow as possible toward debt prepayment obviously while adhering to the REIT rules will clearly maximize the benefits to our stockholders as this approach will drive additional equity value rather than equity returns will de-risk the company and will directly offset the need for us to turn around and raise expensive capital to fund growth and de-leveraging.
Clearly this is the right course for a growing capital-intensive company like Sunstone.
To wrap up I want to thank the entire Sunstone team for all they've done and continue to do to advance our business objectives.
As I said we couldn't be more confident or enthusiastic about our future.
Sunstone's value proposition is compelling industry fundamentals are improving and we have the right plan portfolio and team to drive significant value going forward.
We thank you all very much for your time and your interest in Sunstone.
And with that let's open up the call to questions.
Amaryllis please go ahead.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Joseph Greff with JPMorgan.
Sorry Joe we can't hear you.
[Technical Difficulty] The next question comes from the line of Smedes Rose with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> It's Smedes.
I was just wondering if you -- you talked about some of your results without D.C.
in 2012.
I'm just wondering what do you think your RevPAR would have been if you x-out the weakness in D.C.
for this year? Would it be higher than that 4% to 6% range I assume or? Hi Smedes.
Yes D.C.
in particular is impacted by 2 factors.
First of all as we've talked before and others have spoken about as well D.C.
and Baltimore are showing soft years.
And election year in D.C.
city rates are down significantly in both markets and so you just got a cyclical trough in terms of group demand.
In the first quarter I noted that our RevPAR numbers are off probably 300 basis points just due to the impacts of softness in D.C.
and Baltimore.
We've got additional impacts in D.C.
as a result of our renovation work which we expect will result in roughly $3 million worth of revenue displacement.
So there's several hundred basis points of RevPAR impediments if you will in the D.C.
and Baltimore assets.
Just to be safe I'd say between 100 and 150 basis points on the gross side.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I just wanted to -- I think we've kind of figured this out but on your RevPAR guidance of 4% to 6% what is the sort of implied I guess margin expansion that you're expecting? So good question also Smedes.
We are expecting margin expansion this year ranging from anywhere from 30 to 100 basis points.
Certainly as I mentioned in my comments we could see margins expand at a more market pace during the course of the year.
But we think at this point caution is just the prudent way to approach our guidance.
And our next question comes from the line of Andrew Didora with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Ken just a quick question with regards to the transaction environment especially as you may look to sell some assets over time.
What does the market look like right now just in terms of the pool of buyers that are out there? Look I think the pool of buyers even the buyers for acquisition or assets hotels in particular over the last couple of years have been the lodging REITs themselves primarily.
It depends on what types of assets you're selling but there are some significant pools of private capital that are looking to invest in lodging kind of based on the same thesis that we talked about on our call today that we are at the front end of a recovery in our industry.
We've got great fundamentals and frankly you can get some fairly decent yields on lodging assets today given where things are trading on cap rate terms.
So we expect the buyer universally expand out a little bit during the course of 2012.
That said as you're aware deal flow hasn't been that robust as REITs continue to revalue and again as private buyers get more confident in the fundamentals on our business you'll see more of those buyers emerge.
Andrew it's John Arabia here if I could add on.
Today you're seeing a lot of private equity smaller private equity players come in particularly being attracted to assets that have -- that are good assets and also have in place assumable financing.
That's something that really helps enable a transaction from public to private.
And so I would say that that level of interest is in general is pretty robust.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful John.
And then one last question maybe digging down on the margin question from earlier.
What would your margin growth be in 2012 if you stripped out D.C.
and Baltimore? We didn't give those figures.
But as you can expect D.C.
and Baltimore are as we touched on impeding the top line growth.
And on the bottom line growth as well the 30 to 100 would certainly be higher if D.C.
and Baltimore were firing on all cylinders as we expect them to be in 2013 and beyond.
But we didn't provide specific guidance on margin performance x D.C.
and Baltimore.
And our next question comes from the line of Patrick Scholes with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just want to make sure I heard you correctly.
In your prepared remarks you talked about not having or not expecting cost increases unless you had significant occupancy increases.
Was that correct? Did I hear that correctly? No we do expect to see continued increases in cost at our property base.
It's just there are natural inflationary pressures on the cost side.
We do think our team and our operators have done a very good job of driving new efficiencies into our portfolio.
But I don't think it would be appropriate to say that we don't expect additional cost to creep into the system absent additional occupancy.
There's naturally going to be growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just with your portfolio now about how many points of occupancy are you away from your peak occupancy? So last year we finished at 74.
-- a little bit over 74% in occupancy.
Peak occupancy is 78% -- 76% I apologize.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just a couple of points left in there.
And our next question comes from the line of Enrique Torres with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to know if you could give us a bit more color on your specific disposition plan regarding the assets that were mentioned in real estate alert.
Can you comment on that article? Enrique it's our policy to report on any asset sales once we have a binding agreement or once we've closed the sale.
So at this point we have nothing to report on on the asset sales front.
If we were to pursue sale transactions it would likely entail single assets or portfolios of assets that are smaller geographically-isolated more heavily leveraged hotels.
So stay tuned on that front but we have nothing to report today.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then in terms of -- I noticed like in 4Q there was a specific weakness in the beach cities from Long Beach down to Del Mar as well as in Rochester.
Other than renovation impacts and maybe the international travel that you mentioned for Rochester last quarter is there anything else impacting those numbers? And what's your outlook for those markets compared to your portfolio RevPAR for next year? Yes.
So starting with Rochester Rochester was throughout the course of 2011 impacted by softer international business that tends to trickle down to our entire portfolio in that market.
We certainly are very bullish long-term on those assets but clearly softness throughout the course of the year just in the absence of that anchor international business in the market.
As far as Long Beach Long Beach was softer than expected due to primarily group decreases in the fourth quarter.
There's also a shift of business in the hotel from ADR to occupancy as demand in that general market decreased a little bit.
So Long Beach was simply a group rotation issue.
And then on the Fairmont Newport Beach I think that was one of the other properties you mentioned.
Fairmont is a hotel where we're working through the transition of a significant piece of contract business that had been in that hotel for many years.
We made the right decision we believe with that hotel during the course of this year to take the contract business out which is low-rated and essentially force the hotel to fill itself up with higher-rated [ph] group and transient business.
It's a lengthy transition whenever you make that kind of a change.
And clearly in the fourth quarter we saw continued turbulence in the numbers of the Fairmont as that transition stood.
Marc do you have anything else to add on those particulars...
No I think the rotation in Long Beach was one significant citywide group that left the market after having been in the market for 3 years in a row.
And it moved out of the market it outgrew Long Beach.
That was really the significant issue caused us $20 decrease in group rates because of that one group.
It was hugely impactful.
And the Fairmont again we're rotating out of Air France which used to be in the marketplace and had been at the hotel for a decade and really just made a final decision that the market is strengthening; occupancies particularly Tuesday Wednesday Thursday nights and we feel this will be very positive for us over the next 3 to 5 years.
And in Rochester mostly international business really with a significant decrease out of the Arab spring more than anything else.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then finally what's your outlook for non-room revenue spend for 2012 compared to like your RevPAR estimates? Are you guys seeing an uptick in or expecting an uptick in spend versus kind of how it was compared to like the lagging performance in '11? Great question Enrique.
I think you heard us talk throughout the course of 2011 about F&amp;B spend in particular lagging the trend on the room side.
We did see some signs of recovery on the F&amp;B side in the fourth quarter.
In particular banquet revenue was up $1.1 million to last year.
And more importantly banquet revenue per group room was up on a year-over-year basis which was a reversal of the trend we've seen during the course of the year.
So total portfolio banquet sales per group room night in 2011 did end up positive.
It was up about $108.86 versus $103 in 2010.
So positive trend a reversal of the trend we saw during the earlier part of the year on banquet sales.
We do expect to see those numbers continue to improve as group business on a higher-rated format gets tight-fitted [ph] into our hotels as opposed to some of the group business that we saw last year and certainly in '09 with some of the lower-rated group that just weren't picking up the additional banquet business.
Yes.
And then I guess this is for me I mean we're up 5.7% in group -- food and beverage per group room night full-year.
It's actually the first year that we've had a positive change when you go all the way back to '09.
So this change reflects the strengthening group production the strengthening group demand and is following what would be a normal cycle as you start to see corporate America spend more back in their functions.
Yes Enrique just very quickly adding on to that.
You can see that in the back of our earnings release in the comparative analysis.
In the fourth quarter just full food and beverage revenues up 4.5% roughly versus the year.
It was up 27% so we're seeing an acceleration in that.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just going back to Enrique's question there.
If you were to sell the 5 assets that are mentioned in real estate alert would the preference be to pay down debt at this point or would it be would you guys look more to reallocate that in acquisitions? I think it's a combination.
As I've stated in my prepared remarks we're looking to achieve a broad range of objectives for our company.
One is improving our portfolio quality and scale and certainly concentrations in key growth markets.
We are also looking to de-leverage the company.
I think the 5 assets that were mentioned in real estate alert are hotels that all have some significant debt in place.
And so certainly the sale of those hotels would be de-leveraging in and of itself.
The equity proceeds that would come in through a transaction such as that deal we would likely look to put those proceeds either through debt -- either toward debt repayment or toward the growth of our portfolio in terms of high-quality assets and markets where we believe growth will achieve the national norm.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
In addition to the Long Beach there is there any other debt that is prepayable without penalty at this point? The exchangeable notes are only senior debt.
As we mentioned we bought in $4.5 million of the exchangeable notes during the first quarter.
That is technically prepayable because it's just a publicly traded piece of paper.
It becomes puttable back to the company in January of 2013 so we view that as debt that we'll likely look to proactively retire to the extent that we've got excess liquidity reserves to deploy toward that.
Beyond that very little of our debt is actually prepayable without some sort of accounting.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
In '12 just going back to your dividend comments was there any taxable net income generated? And then in '13 based upon your guidance is there an expectation that you will generate taxable net income? Or is it a wash at this point? So starting back with 2011 we did generate a very minor amount of taxable income in 2011.
We utilized approximately $3 million of net operating loss carry forwards to address to satisfy that taxable income.
Based on our guidance in 2012 we expect our taxable income to range somewhere in the $25 million range.
And then obviously it would grow from that point forward into 2013 and beyond if our expectations on the cyclical recovery are realized.
So there is -- we are certainly shifting into a position where we're generating taxable income.
It'll grow fairly meaningfully from this point forward.
And as we noted in our comments we'll look to address our taxable income in ways that help to advance our other corporate objectives including de-leveraging and growing the quality of our portfolio but that are highly consistent obviously with the REIT rules.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
Really appreciate the color.
And the final question just because of D.C.
and Baltimore were a drag in 2012 can you give us -- and I realize this is preliminary but can you give us a sense that -- give us what you're seeing in terms of maybe group demand for 2013 just in light of the renovation if you're expecting a pretty good pick up in those markets? Yes.
I would -- the comment would be is that we're very very very confident about 2013.
And as a matter of fact we're pacing at this point in Baltimore for 2013 we're up 71% in pace.
And in D.C.
we're up 77% in pace.
And we expect to have very positive years in both of those hotels.
That's one of the reasons why we planned the renovation in D.C.
this year is we knew it was a significantly off-year market.
The market in whole is going to be down and the least amount of displacement for us would be in the back half of the year which is when we're doing it.
And our final question comes from the line of David Loeb with Robert W Baird.
Research Division</strong> John I just want to dive into the guidance a little bit more.
I've heard your comments about increased displacement but also about more pricing power and where the flow-through was last year.
I just don't get how you come up with only 3.6% growth in adjusted EBITDA off of your trailing 12 months pro forma when you're saying at the low end 4% RevPAR growth.
That would seem to imply about a 25% flow-through below your margins last year.
Yes David good question.
At the low end of our guidance yes it's 4% RevPAR.
And keep in mind that is the low end of our guidance.
We believe it'd be tough to really drive significant margin growth because remember at 4% at a 4% increase in RevPAR total revenues are probably growing somewhere less than that.
I think that was Enrique's or somebody else's question earlier just about food and beverage and ancillary spend.
And particularly at that 4% we still believe that we'd have some occupancy lift.
So there'd be some incremental cost.
There are also as somebody else asked earlier on there are incremental costs and wages benefits insurance and the like.
So at the low end of that guidance which might be conservative as you would typically think at the low end of guidance we don't think that the margin expansion will be all that material.
Research Division</strong> But Ken did say 30 basis points at the low end of the margin expansion not negative.
So I guess I'm wondering is this overly conservative as opposed to just your usual cautiousness? David this is Ken.
Let me jump in by saying you're absolutely and astutely I think pointing out the conservative aspects of our guidance.
As we noted in our comments our expectations are biased towards the high end of our guidance.
Though we see very little value at this point in the year and certainly at this point in the scope of the other sort of already announced guidance for the year and coming out and being overly aggressive and overly ambitious in our guidance our goal here is to be conservative but realistic in our guidance.
And therefore you're making a fair question about the low end of our guidance and to beat or certainly meet our guidance going forward rather than find ourselves in a situation where we're having to explain why we didn't achieve our guidance.
So we are certainly biased to the positive on the guidance.
We're also certainly biased towards conservatism as we have put forth our forward projections.
David I want to make sure are you driving down to corporate level EBITDA? Research Division</strong> Adjusted EBITDA based off of the pro forma to the adjusted EBITDA in your guidance.
Yes so just clarifications there.
We could still have modest margin growth in that low conservative assumption of RevPAR growth.
But keep in mind that our corporate overhead which has been slashed pretty materially since 2007 we anticipate our corporate overhead to be up maybe $1 million or $2 million this year as we had numerous enhancements to the team.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That makes sense.
And just to be clear John was referring to himself as the enhancement to the team.
And we have a follow-up question from the line of Smedes Rose with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just think you said before but can you just remind us what was the or what do you see is -- what was I guess the peak EBITDA out of this portfolio? I know you have to sort of make some assumptions about the San Diego asset because it wasn't around the last peak but what was that number? So the peak EBITDA and look this is subject -- I want to be real careful about how I explain this one.
Peak EBITDA for our portfolio if you cherry pick the peak EBITDA production from each of our hotels plus you make a regular cyclical assumption for our San Diego property as if it had existed ranges somewhere upwards -- up towards $300 million for our portfolio.
So that's not scientific.
I would not state that that is anything other than a data point.
Our view is that our portfolio should not only reattain prior peak levels but should meaningfully exceed prior peak levels as this recovery ensues.
And our primary point during our prepared remarks was that we see obviously huge upside just in getting back to the prior peak numbers.
And I'm showing no further questions.
Please continue.
Great.
Thank you Amaryllis and thank you all for joining us today on the call.
We look forward to seeing many of you over the next couple of weeks and we'll speak to you again on the conference call in May.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the conference call for today.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Sunstone Hotel Investors First Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Thursday May 3 2012.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to Bryan Giglia Senior Vice President of Corporate Finance of Sunstone Hotel Investors.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Patricia.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
By now you should have all received a copy of our first quarter's earnings release and supplemental which were released yesterday after the market closed.
If you do not yet have a copy you can access it on our website at www.sunstonehotels.com.
Before we begin this call I would like to remind everyone that this call contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties including those described in our prospectuses 10-Qs 10-Ks and other filings with the SEC which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
We caution you to consider those factors in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
We also note that this call may contain non-GAAP financial information including EBITDA adjusted EBITDA FFO adjusted FFO and hotel EBITDA margins.
We are providing that information as a supplement to information prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
With us today are: Ken Cruse President and Chief Executive Officer; Marc Hoffman Chief Operating Officer; John Arabia Chief Financial Officer; and Robert Springer Senior Vice President of Acquisitions and Dispositions.
After our prepared remarks the team will be available to answer your questions.
I'd like to now turn the call over to Ken.
Ken please go ahead.
Thanks very much Bryan and thank you all for joining us today.
On today's call I'll start by covering some of the high points from our first quarter and our acquisition of the soon to be named Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile.
Marc will then cover operations in detail and John will discuss our balance sheet finance transactions and guidance before I wrap up our prepared remarks and open up the call for questions.
So let's get started.
In spite of expected and isolated softness in certain of our hotels the Renaissance Washington D.C.
in particular our portfolio performed well in the first quarter.
We're seeing continued strength across a broad range of leading indicators including group booking productivity group pace and business trends in demand.
In short the turbulent macroeconomic backdrop is having little to no discernible impact on the lodging business trends.
In fact lodging industry fundamentals are currently as good as we've seen.
As a result we expect to realize continued growth in our operations through the remainder of 2012 and for the next several years.
Drilling down on our first quarter as compared to Q1 2011 our corporate revenues grew by 29% to $205.2 million.
Property level revenue growth was driven entirely by occupancy gains as we worked to push our portfolio to peak occupancy levels before aggressively driving rate.
Our adjusted EBITDA grew by 33% to $43.1 million and our adjusted FFO per diluted share grew by 71.4% to $0.12 in the first quarter.
In Q1 our hotel EBITDA margins improved by 120 basis points this is adjusted for credits and assessments to 24.5%.
While this was a nice step in the right direction especially considering of that -- all of our revenue growth was driven by occupancy we know our hotels are capable of generating stronger performance.
For reference our Q1 margins in 2007 the prior peak and this is excluding the Hilton San Diego Bayfront and the JW Marriott New Orleans were 27.4% or 290 basis points higher than our level in Q1 of this year.
Marc will discuss various steps we're taking aimed at not only re-attaining prior peak margins but exceeding prior peak levels as this recovery continues.
As a result of the strength we saw in Q1 and the positive leading indicators we have increased our 2012 guidance.
We are now projecting our full year RevPAR to increase between 5% and 7% adjusted EBITDA to come in between $229 million and $238 million and adjusted FFO per diluted share to be between $0.96 and $1.04.
In addition to generating decent operating performance in the first quarter of 2012 we're also making solid progress against a number of our 2012 corporate initiatives.
As we've stated before our overall goal is to achieve industry-leading stockholder returns by improving our portfolio quality and scale while gradually deleveraging our balance sheet.
The transaction we announced yesterday solidly advances each of these objectives.
Our acquisition of the 417-room Wyndham Chicago for a net acquisition price of approximately $212 000 per key represents a value-additive real estate deal with clear upside at a very attractive price.
Post-renovation and repositioning we expect our all-in investment will equate to approximately $250 000 per key which we estimate will result in a run rate EBITDA multiple inside of 10x once we complete planned renovations and the hotel stabilizes.
We were able to achieve attractive deal turns in part because the seller the Blackstone Group rather than selling the hotel to us outright is taking back the bulk of the purchase price in our stock at a price of $10.71 per share a 3% premium to yesterday's close.
In short we're acquiring a high-quality hotel with significant growth potential at a very attractive price and Blackstone is acquiring a nearly 5% interest in Sunstone at a price we both believe represents a very compelling value given our team portfolio and strategy and growth prospects.
Typical acquisitions are zero-sum game 1 side wins and 1 side loses.
In this case both sides are in a position to win and we couldn't be more excited about having Blackstone as a major stockholder and potential strategic partner going forward.
A few more details on the transaction.
First immediately upon acquisition we will re-brand the hotel the Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile.
Both we and Hyatt see a tremendous upside in this asset and Hyatt clearly represents the best brand for the hotel given Hyatt's strong demand base and market representation.
Hyatt has provided a very attractive package of terms in exchange for the flag and we are thrilled to expand our relationship with Hyatt -- the Hyatt organization.
Second later this year we will commence a comprehensive renovation and repositioning program aimed at making the Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile one of Chicago's top business destinations.
Sunstone has an outstanding in-house design and construction team and we have a high degree of comfort with our ability to execute on a full repositioning of this hotel that will fundamentally change its character and materially improve its attractiveness as a business hotel.
Finally there will be no debt on the hotel.
And so coupled with the repayment of the mortgage on the Renaissance Long Beach which we completed last week we will have 13 unencumbered hotels with an estimated value approximating $700 million to $800 million and we have maintained full access on our undrawn $150 million credit facility.
As John noted in our release at this point we are comfortable with our low-rated well staggered leverage.
In our opinion while we remain committed to gradually deleveraging over the next several years we firmly believe our capital structure is an asset at this stage in the cycle.
We own an outstanding portfolio of institutional grade upper upscale hotels and 1 of the best portfolios in our space and we are appropriately levered for the recovery.
Subsequent to our acquisition of the Wyndham Chicago our average hotel size will be 413 keys the majority of our hotels are recently renovated and in very good condition and our primary exposures are to the top urban growth centers in the U.S.
While we continue to trade at a discount EBITDA multiple to most of our peers we couldn't be more confident in Sunstone's upside opportunity in terms of earnings growth from this point forward.
Looking ahead we are highly committed to unlocking our portfolio's full potential and as you saw this quarter we're confidently executing on a strategic plan or into the ramp [ph] of proactive portfolio management intensive asset management disciplined external growth and measured balance sheet improvement.
With that I'll turn the call over to Marc Hoffman to discuss our portfolio operations in greater detail.
Thank you Ken and good morning everyone.
And thank you for joining us today.
I will review our portfolio's first quarter operating performance in greater detail review some of our asset management initiatives aimed at recapturing peak profitability and provide an update on our major 2012 CapEx projects.
All hotel information discussed today unless otherwise noted is for our 32-hotel portfolio which includes on a pro forma basis all 2011 acquisitions including the Doubletree Guest Suites Times Square the JW Marriott New Orleans and the Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
Chicago the Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile is not included in the statistics I am providing today.
For the first quarter our portfolio RevPAR was up 5.5% to $117.45 driven by a 6% increase in occupancy which grew to 73.8%.
17 of our hotels generated double-digit RevPAR growth including our hotels of Marriott Houston Doubletree Guest Suites Minneapolis Marriott Quincy Courtyard LAX Marriott Long Wharf and Sheraton Cerritos just to name a few.
From a total room segmentation standpoint in Q1 group revenues were up 0.8% with a 5.9% growth in rooms and 4.9% decrease in group ADR.
Q1 transient room revenue increased 9.2% to last year with a 6.4% increase in room nights and a 2.6% increase in ADR.
In Q1 our hotels had 431 sellouts compared to 278 sellout nights in the first quarter of 2011.
Based upon a 98% occupancy standard which shows the continued signs of strengthening demand in our portfolio.
Similar to the trend we saw in Q4 the highest number of sellouts in 5 years for Q1 indicating our portfolio is operating at occupancy levels that will enable our operators to compress rates and capture a higher percentage of premium-rated business going forward.
The Hilton Times Square Marriott Houston Courtyard LAX and Sheraton Cerritos all saw significant increases in sellout room nights.
As we have previously discussed Q1 RevPAR was negatively impacted by soft group calendar in Washington D.C.
Our 807-room Renaissance which like other convention group houses in Washington D.C.
depends on citywide conventions to fill their rooms was meaningfully impacted by a weak convention year causing Q1 RevPAR to decrease 17.4%.
This 1 asset brought the portfolio RevPAR down 230 basis points.
Said another way excluding the worth of the Renaissance Washington D.C.
our portfolio RevPAR would have been up 7.8% in Q1.
We expect this weakness to continue through 2012 especially as we commence on our complete bathroom guestrooms suites and corridor renovation in Q3.
The good news is that in stark contrast to 2012 the mid-term outlook for D.C.
is outstanding.
2013 is particularly shaping up to be a banner year in D.C.
We will have a completely new product and our group pace is up a strong 66% to 2011.
And we are active in more mini citywide conventions in the market.
We expect 2013 to be a fantastic year for the market in our hotel and our outlook for 2014 and beyond is also very positive.
The 13 hotels we renovated in 2011 to continue to ramp up very nicely with Q1 RevPAR up 14%.
As many of these hotels completed their renovations in Q2 through Q4 of last year we expect to see continued quarter-over-quarter growth as we realize return on the invested capital and these hotels continue to improve their performance.
As noted our 2012 group pace is up 8.2% over 2011 levels.
With all growth coming from additional group room nights.
You may recall that last quarter we noted that 2 000 [ph] group pace was up 4.5%.
Our sales teams have been booking significant business resulting in a 3.6% increase in pace.
Looking farther out our booking pace for our 4 convention group hotels is up an outstanding 22% for 2013.
In Q1 our group booking production for all current and future years was up significantly 52.4% compared to Q1 of last year.
This was our highest first quarter group booking production in the last 5 years for these 32 hotels.
For the first quarter group production for these 32 hotels was 231 105 group rooms.
In addition to the positive pace trends in our group hotels a number of our transient hotels especially our hotels in New York Chicago and Boston will benefit from strong convention calendars in those cities as those cities experience considerable compression.
As an indication of both our operators' ability to shift business into higher-rated segments and the continued recovery in the business demand in the first quarter our revenues from premium demand sources were strong with premium revenues increases 10% with premium ADR increasing 5.7% and premium room nights increasing 4%.
As hotels continue to mix shift their business into higher-rated segments our corporate negotiated business increased slightly at 2.1% in Q1.
As we were able to close out our lower-rated corporate negotiated channels and in some of our higher occupancy hotels pushed those customers into premium-rated segments.
Our asset managers continue to work closely with our managers on a weekly basis to maximize hotel room strategies and profits through nimble rate and occupancy shifts depending on the changing market conditions street corner by street corner.
In addition we continue to work with all our operators to ensure that as RevPAR increases operating expenses do not creep back in unless significant occupancy increases justify higher costs and we as an asset management team agree to those increases.
As Ken noted our focus is not only re-attaining prior peak margins but exceeding them.
To this end specific profit initiatives include our continued execution of a portfolio-wide retro-commissioning energy improvement program as well as our ongoing gastro bar F&amp;B refinements.
Moving to CapEx during the first quarter we invested $21.8 million in our portfolio.
For the full year 2012 we expect to invest between $85 million and $100 million into the portfolio including major renovations of our Renaissance Westchester and our Hyatt Newport Beach.
Additionally 2 of our most significant projects will be the complete room bathroom and corridor renovation of the 807-room Renaissance Washington D.C.
which we are budgeting at $25 million and ordering in the initial phase of the conversion and reinvention of the Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile.
The majority of work done in Chicago will be in 2013 but we will begin to place deposits and immediately work towards the end of 2012.
Overall we expect to incur approximately $3 million to $5 million in renovation-related revenue displacement for the entire portfolio during 2012 which is roughly $1 million to $3 million higher than the displacement we incurred in 2011.
In 2012 our asset management team will continue to roll on our successful gastro-bar concepts at the Renaissance Westchester which will result in the addition of 5 000 square feet of function space as well as the Marriott Tysons Corner.
Both of these will occur in Q4 of 2012.
Throughout 2012 we expect to complete total energy audits at 50% of our portfolio which we expect to result in between $5 million to $7 million of energy-related ROI investments.
With that I'll turn the call over to John.
John please go ahead.
Thank you Marc.
Good morning everyone.
Today I'll give you an overview of several topics including: first our liquidity and access to capital; second recently completed and anticipated finance transactions; and third details regarding our earnings guidance.
With respect to liquidity Sunstone ended the first quarter with $198 million of cash including $126 million of unrestricted cash.
Subsequent to the end of the quarter we used $32 million to repay maturing mortgage secured by the Renaissance Long Beach.
We expect to utilize the bulk of our significant cash position during the remainder of 2012 to fund the cash portion of the Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile acquisition for CapEx and for debt reduction according to our stated plan to methodically delever our balance sheet.
In addition to our strong cash position we have an undrawn $150 million line of credit and we'll have 13 unencumbered hotels once we close the Hyatt Chicago that collectively generated roughly $50 million of EBITDA in 2011.
Our pro forma unrestricted cash balance exceeds the $58 million of all of our debt maturities through early 2015.
As detailed on Page 20 of our investor supplemental our only near-term debt maturity is the remaining $58 million of Exchangeable Senior Notes which will likely to be put to us next January.
At the end of the quarter Sunstone had a $1.56 billion of consolidated debt which includes 100% of the $237 million mortgage secured by the Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
Adjusting for the debt attributed to our minority partner in this asset and the transactions completed subsequent to the end of the first quarter our pro rata debt balance is currently $1.47 billion.
Our debt has an average term to maturity of nearly 5 years at an average interest rate of approximately 5% including the effect of our interest rate derivative agreements.
Our variable rate debt as a percentage of total debt stands at approximately 27%.
The $58 million of debt maturing through early 2015 represents less than 2% of our current enterprise value and again we hold more unrestricted cash than the sum of our near-term debt maturities.
Our liquidity is strong our near-term debt maturities are few and we have access to several sources of attractively priced capital.
We will continue to enhance our already strong financial flexibility over time as is evidenced by the highly equitized Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile acquisition and the repayment of the mortgage on the Renaissance Long Beach.
Now let's turn to our updated earning guidance.
A full reconciliation of our current guidance can be found on Pages 16 and 17 of our supplemental as well as in our earnings release.
We expect second quarter 2012 RevPAR growth of 5.5% to 7.5% with adjusted EBITDA between $65 million and $68 million an adjusted FFO per diluted share between $0.30 and $0.33.
I should note that quarter-to-date through April 30 our portfolio RevPAR is up approximately 8%.
As Ken noted our first quarter performance has led us to increase our full year 2012 RevPAR growth by 100 basis points to 5% to 7%.
Accordingly we have increased the midpoint of our adjusted EBITDA guidance by $4.5 million to a range of between $229 million and $238 million.
And we have increased the midpoint of our guidance for adjusted FFO per diluted share by $0.05 to a range of $0.96 to $1.04.
We expect full year RevPAR to be negatively impacted by isolated factors including soft group business in Washington D.C.
and Baltimore as well as approximately $3 million to $5 million of hotel revenue displacement from our 2012 renovations specifically at the Renaissance D.C.
and the Renaissance Westchester.
This compares to revenue renovation disruption of approximately $2 million in 2011.
That said we remain optimistic regarding the outlook for revenue and profit growth in 2012 as a result of positive growth booking pace strong group booking production and healthy pricing pressure in many cities stemming from increased occupancy and a high number of sold-out room nights.
Moreover as occupancy strengthens into 2012 in a backdrop of an anemic supply growth pricing pressure is likely to intensify which is likely to result into a reacceleration of RevPAR growth into the future.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Ken to wrap up our prepared remarks.
Great.
Thank you very much John.
Some final comments.
As you've heard us say before our goal is to achieve industry-leading stockholder returns by improving our portfolio's profitability quality and scale while gradually deleveraging our balance sheet.
We hit on all of those objectives this quarter.
Operations continue to improve and the Chicago acquisition will enhance the portfolio quality while deleveraging our capital structure in a way that's clearly additive to our stockholders.
Looking ahead lodging industry fundamentals have materially strengthened over the past year and are now highly constructive.
Supply trends and capital costs are at historic lows while lodging demand continues to build.
With groups booking and business travelers hitting the road in record numbers the lodging industry's leading indicators unquestionably point toward prolonged growth over the years ahead.
Our company is well positioned to capitalize on strong industry fundamentals and we as a team are confidently and enthusiastically executing on our plan.
We sincerely thank you for your interest in Sunstone.
And with that we would like to open up the call to questions.
Patricia please go ahead.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Ian Weissman with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly with respect to the Blackstone deal maybe you can give us a little bit of background color on how that deal sort of came to your table and Blackstone has got a lot of real estate they would like to sell and have they committed to doing more deals with you in the future? Good question.
The deal with the Blackstone Group is kind of typical of the deals that we've done over the last year.
Last year we acquired $900 million worth of hotels all through privately negotiated relationship-based transactions.
We've had a fairly strong relationship with the Blackstone Group although we haven't done any significant transactions with them over the last few years.
But we know the guys well we have a mutual respect between our 2 firms.
And so when this opportunity came up it was clear to both sides that this fit squarely within our strategy and our objectives.
And so it certainly made sense for both sides as was evidenced with the way we restructured the deal.
As far as commitments to sourcing arrangements or other transactions going forward there's nothing formal here I would tell you that both sides obviously would love to do more together and -- but there's no formal commitment there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally just the last question if you look at the pipeline of deals so far this year there's maybe have been $2 billion or $3 billion worth of transactions 80% of them had been concentrated in gateway cities and that's clearly the markets at which you're targeting.
But you also have 4 or 5 assets on the market for sale.
Can you maybe talk about what the investor bid is for assets outside of gateway cities and what your interest you've seen so far on those -- or at least give us a status update on those asset sales? Sure.
And what I'd like to say first and foremost is that our policy is do not comment on any pending transactions before there's a formal go hard.
And so at this point we have no specific details to provide on any potential asset sales.
What I will tell you is based on our observations historically obviously secondary and tertiary markets do command higher cap rates and then -- and correspondingly lower values.
That said you need to look at all the facts in any given transaction what are the growth potential? What is the growth potential the upside potential of specific assets? What is the capital structure that may be stapled to the deal? For example if hotels are being sold with legacy indebtedness that is at a very low rate and high LTV that can be attractive to certain buyers and that can certainly add to valuation.
So at this point I'd say the value of I think that any seller would realize on a secondary or tertiary market asset in today's environment is going to be a product not just of the market but the asset upside potential the quality of the assets and the capital structure itself.
And the next question comes on the line of Eli Hackel with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> 2 buckets of questions 1 related to the deal and 1 related group pace.
Just on the deal it seems like it's just a little bit of a different franchise deal given its upper upscale brand in a major city.
Just curious how much of the reason to go with Hyatt was the brand itself and how much was related to the money that Hyatt was willing to put in towards the renovation? And then also just on the hotel's location I think it's maybe a block or so off of Michigan Avenue.
Does that matter at all? I'm not sure it does.
And then just second on the group booking pace you noted a very big pickup in bookings in the quarter.
Just some color on that is that corporations associations any industry call-outs any help there would be great as well.
Sure Eli.
First on your question about the brand.
If you look at the Chicago market Hyatt obviously is based in Chicago.
Hyatt also happens to be somewhat underrepresented in Chicago relative to the other major brands.
And yet if you look at the demographics of travelers to Chicago there's a great depth of Hyatt loyalists who travel to that market.
So from our perspective the Hyatt brand was kind of a no-brainer in terms of where to put or what brand to put on this particular asset in this particular location with all the business trends and qualities that we expect to capitalize on once we finish with our repositioning program.
We can't comment on specifics in terms of the economic enhancements that Hyatt provided.
In any case when we're changing the flag on a hotel certainly that the brand enhancements will be considered but that was not the deciding factor in terms of going with Hyatt.
We couldn't be more pleased about growing our relationship with the Hyatt brand.
As far as the location you're exactly right.
This is about a block off of Michigan Avenue very -- what we would consider to be a kind of an A- B+ location within the Chicago market.
And the hotel's orientation around a growing and vibrant medical complex within the city is 1 of the I think unique qualities that attracted us to the asset.
It's interesting how that particular high-rated business is not currently being penetrated to the level that we believe the hotel is capable of.
And so part of our business plan is to reposition this asset to firmly and squarely capitalize on that business.
And then with respect to your group pace question let me turn it over to Marc Hoffman for that one.
Group pace the pickup in the year so far for the year really has been short-term corporate around the country and additional pickup at our large convention hotels with the blocks coming in larger.
In our current pace for 2012 breaks down we were up 0.5% in Q1 we're up a strong 12.5% in Q2 and plus 7.3% in Q3 and up 2.3% in Q4.
And our Q1 just as a separate note our Q1 sales production was strong for the quarter just for currents and futures over our last year plus 39% almost 40%.
So -- and as we said in the pre -- the original remarks the bookings were the strongest in our portfolio for 5 years.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Just on -- are you getting any concerns from corporations it seems like maybe there's still able to book short-term and no one is really being priced out -- are they starting to build any concerns within corporations that maybe if they don't start booking a little bit further out there won't be space for them? I think that's a good comment.
I mean look we were starting to see very strong occupancies.
We had good very good occupancies in Q1 and we do have some hotels that are -- don't have much of space left in places.
So that would be naturally be the next curve in the growth of being able to grow ADR future out would be that there'll be less and less space available and then people will have to book further out.
Our next question comes from the line of Smedes Rose with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you with your deal with the Blackstone is there any thought that they would take a seat on your board? And also what do you think their sort of end game is here? I mean is there any sort of -- are they committed to being the long-term holder of your stock? Is there any kind of holding agreement I guess or just kind of maybe -- I'm just sort of interest a little more in your relationship with that company going forward.
Smedes first of all there's no board seat contemplated at this point and Blackstone will be a regular shareholder.
There's no lockup there's no piggyback rides so really no special bells and whistles on this investment.
Our view from management's perspective is that Blackstone's taking an investment in the company based on what they perceive is a very attractive value.
And from our perspective it's our job to continue to unlock that value.
So as long as we continue to do our jobs I would expect Blackstone will remain a stockholder and if their investment philosophy or desires change they'll probably move out of the shares but there's no artificial lockup.
We prefer to have a free-market system here and it's in [ph] our own merit if you will.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I mean there's no -- you could potentially do a similar kind of deal with them again I guess in the future I mean they obviously hold a lot of hotels? Absolutely.
We could do a similar deal with Blackstone or any number of other institutional holders of assets.
We think that our currency if employed in an acquisition that's attractively and appropriately priced is probably the best way to capitalize the deal.
And our next question comes from the line of Enrique Torres with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Ken your comments on the company being appropriately levered for the recovery and the capital structure being a strength right now? It seems to have a little different tone in kind of the deleveraging emphasis you guys have placed in the past.
Does that imply that you're going to be looking to strengthen the balance sheet or delever later in the cycle? So Enrique good morning.
Look our comments -- my comments today I think are highly consistent with what we've been saying all along.
And that is that if you look at our capital structure which is single assets secured financings very well staggered very little REIT-ed [ph] with a great deal of coverage as I mentioned on the call we have $700 million to $800 million of unencumbered assets and undrawn credit facility great access to capital and we believe we believe we're at the front end of the cyclical recovery.
So the comment that we're comfortable with our capital structure at this point is absolutely accurate and it's absolutely the fact that we believe our capital structure is a strength and a competitive advantage currently is also an accurate comment.
That does not mean that our plan has changed to gradually and methodically de-leverage our balance sheet so that as the cyclical peak approaches we are at the very low-leverage level with high liquidity so that we can capitalize on opportunities as the next cyclical trough ensues.
As you know in our business the value is created at the inflection point in the cycle.
If you hit the peak of a cycle with very low leverage and very strong liquidity massive opportunities tend to present themselves during the trough for those companies are appropriately capitalized.
So for where we are in the cycle right now we're very comfortable for where we -- but that does not mean that we're going to stop deleveraging from this point forward.
We'll gradually continue to execute on de-leveraging initiatives and like the one we announced today that are additive to our stockholders.
Enrique it's John.
Let me add emphasis to that.
I agree absolutely with Ken there's no change in tone or direction for our balance sheet management.
Over time we will continue to gradually delever the balance sheet and add in incremental flexibility.
I think the 2 transactions you've seen out of us over the past in this recent announcement solidify the types of things that we will continue to do forward so that we can gradually reduce leverage while being incredibly mindful of maintaining shareholder value.
Ken's comments regarding being comfortable where we are as we have built in significant amount of liquidity and also made sure that our near-term debt maturities are very few.
So while our leverage is a little bit higher than some of our peers or where we want it to be eventually we are comfortable with our capital stack and we don't believe that there are really any potential defensive costs that we could incur as a result.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It looks like the markets kind of pretty hungry for equity.
I mean here's the deal this morning just got upside and another company deals when they've issued equity to pay down their pref have been pretty well-received.
Is that something that you guys would consider? Hey Enrique this is Ken.
As you saw today we announced the transaction that was funded with attractively priced equity in order to acquire an attractively priced hotel.
So I guess we answered that question with the deal we announced today.
We're going to do it in a smart way but certainly as we mentioned in the past we think the most elegant way to achieve our leverage objective is by improving the quality and scale of our portfolio by carefully acquiring hotels using equity in a way that's additive to our stockholders.
So long-winded answer but for the right deals at the right price and when it's additive to our stockholders we would certainly consider deploying equity.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess by my comments also was targeted at the pref and if you think that is at the appropriate level in terms of the percentage of the capital structure.
In terms of preferred equity? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
We consider preferred equity to be more debt-like than equity-like.
So our view is that it's -- we certainly got a sufficient amount of preferred we would not be looking to tap the preferred market as a first choice currently and my guess is over time you'll see us whittle down the preferreds.
And our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Donnelly.
LLC Research Division</strong> Actually I apologize for the delay but maybe you gave us in your remarks I just missed it.
But can you share with us what the FTR index was for the Wyndham I guess it's going to be high that you acquired maybe for 2010 or 2011 and maybe talk about where you think that could get to down the road post renovation? Sure.
I will give you a little bit of color on that one.
First of all it's important to note that the hotel that we acquired today is clearly not representative of the asset that we're underwriting.
There's a big change in that hotel going forward.
So historical RevPAR penetration for the hotel is somewhat disconnected with our long-term aspirations.
And so first of all we're looking to change the competitive set for the hotel.
It's historically running an index for its current set that's right around 100%.
But its current set includes some hotels that -- it includes the Doubletree Chicago the Crowne Plaza the Millennium Knickerbocker the Allerton and then the Embassy Waterfront.
We have a new competitive set that we think is much more representative for what the aspirational quality and characteristics of the hotels would be going forward.
Our model shows our hotel being well below 100% on the competitive set which includes the W Chicago Lakeshore the Sofitel the Omni the Intercontinental Magnificent Mile and the Conrad.
Those are much more representative of the quality of the hotel that we'll ultimately execute on.
For that comp set we see the hotel approaching 100% after renovation.
Our model shows that gradually gravitating toward that level certainly not hitting 100% on day 1.
LLC Research Division</strong> When you say well-below do you mean 90 or do you mean 60? Oh to the current comp set? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes -- or to your new comp set like how it might have done in the past versus that new comp set? Where we're currently versus our new comp set we're at about you -- we call it between 75% and 80% penetration.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you touched on this earlier but marketing to the medical community there are lessons that you can take from the killer portfolio and apply them here? I'm just -- I'm curious what maybe some of those examples are if it's something about the room product itself or is it just really more on the marketing side? Jeff it's Marc Hoffman.
Yes I mean absolutely.
I mean look we've learned a lot from our relationships up at Mayo.
I mean first and foremost there are some clients in the building that have been very clear with us that have several thousands of room related in the medical business that they stop using that hotel because of its current condition those clients are very high-rated and we see as good impact.
In addition to that there's a new children's hospital opening up very very close literally across the street from the building.
And we know from our learnings at Mayo particularly around incoming doctors incoming association business incoming corporate pharmaceutical business that will be -- being involved in the rollout of the new hospital and then on the transient side absolutely.
Knowing what to do with patients and how to handle patients and we will be looking at doing a couple of family suites in the room based upon the children's hospital as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's great.
If I could ask a question or 2 also about that transaction Ken.
How did the concept of taking stock come about? I mean was it something that was pursued by Blackstone or something that you guys offered? And I guess also how was the $10.71 determined? Sure.
The concept of using our stock to acquire assets is something that we advance in all of our conversations or we try to in all of our conversations around acquiring hotels.
And in part that's probably why we are more inclined as is shown by the deals -- the last 4 deals that we've done privately negotiated transactions.
So we look for deals where we can use our equity as currency.
And obviously we look for counter-parties who share our view in terms of the relative upside in our company and that was clearly the case here with the Blackstone deal.
As far as the structure of the -- a video on how we came up with the $10.71 price it was pretty straightforward.
When we negotiated the deal terms we have a typical due diligence period which expired yesterday.
At the end of the due diligence period we had a decision.
We could either go hard or lock from the transaction.
And upon going hard the pricing of the consideration would be determined and that was set at a 3% premium on our close on the day we went hard.
So it just happened to be we closed at $10.40 3% up was $10.71.
And our next question comes from the line of Wes Golladay with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> You mentioned margin expansion opportunities driven partly by expense controls.
Outside of energy where are you seeing cost savings or more moderating expenses? Particularly we're seeing a good improvements with what we've done in food and beverage.
We now have 7 of these gastro-bars where we are consolidating restaurants and bars together and really creating social bar living spaces that happen to serve breakfast lunch and dinner and that's where we've seen significant improvement.
We continue to work through our housekeeping area in reinventing housekeeping with a third-party company where it re-does how housekeeping is done in the guestrooms between -- difference between whether extended-stay customer or a single-night customer those types of things and even based upon profiling of customers with larger families or individuals.
So those are really the base areas and then the energy program really is a -- we see as a significant process.
We have been working through this for a few years.
We have a couple of test cases that have been huge wins and we will be creating relationships formal relationships with 2 energy engineering audit companies that will perform audits on all 32 of our hotels over the next 6 months and then we will roll out this retro commissioning throughout all of our portfolio in '13 and expect to see very measurable results.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And now going back to the acquisitions what you guys are seeing in terms of pipeline at the moment? I guess with the nice movement in the stock today what do you guys seeing from there as far as you guys to be more active in the second half of the year? Wes I've said that we're going to be -- we'll maintain the same level of discipline and take a very measured approach on acquisitions going forward.
Frankly we didn't see a real fall off on the types of deals that we were inclined to pursue over the last few months.
Again we tend to pursue relationship-based negotiated transactions more so than the marketed deals.
I think to your question you probably will see more assets being marketed through the typical channels the typical brokered channels as REITs in general start to get back up to more appropriate evaluations as we would say.
You'll see the REITs in general becoming more inclined to buy.
And therefore sellers being more inclined to bring assets to the market.
So I think from that side of the picture you'll probably see more marketed deals.
But from us our pipeline remains relatively full with attractive opportunities that we continue to vet out and getting deals done that are priced appropriately and structured appropriately is something that we view as being very very important to pursuing any transactions.
So you could see us do 1 or more deals this year or you could potentially see us do no more deals this year.
It's going to come down to getting the right deals at the right time.
And your next question comes from the line of Bill Crow with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> John I'm going to direct 1 to you here.
You guys had a great first quarter you beat your mid by 4-plus-million dollars.
You raised guidance for the balance of the year by $4.5 million at midpoint.
And in the meantime you picked up $90 million asset in Chicago that's really going throw some EBITDA.
So where's the offset given your bullish comments on group business et cetera? It seems like the balance of the year should be theoretically coming up more? Bill keep in mind that the guidance does not include the impact of the Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile yet.
So that has been excluded from that guidance.
Once we close that transaction we'll be able to layer in new guidance to include that to include that acquisition.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But even without that the balance of the year is relatively unchanged is that fair? Am I missing something? No we took it up a little bit Bill.
I mean we took it up a little bit.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> $0.5 million.
And I think that there's still some pockets of identified weakness out there particularly again in the D.C.
maybe in the third quarter when we start the renovation.
And so we are still in the mindset of being somewhat conservative when we set our guidance.
I think it's a realistic guidance range but given a couple of the items still there it's a little bit on the conservative side.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's fair understandable.
There's no divestiture built into that though...
No no...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's incremental...
No it would -- if we were to sell assets we would update the guidance as well.
And our next question comes from the line of Nikhil Bhalla with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get your sense on the outlook for Chicago market in 2013 and 2014 and also if you could maybe give some color on how in the last couple of years I believe there have been some management changes at the MacCormick Center and how that may be changing the dynamics for the Chicago market a little bit? Nikhil as far as the Chicago market the 2012 and 2013 2014 performance is in part going to be a product of some fairly weak performance that the market has seen over the last 2 or 3 years.
Chicago certainly had some softness that exceeded the softness we saw in other major markets.
At this point going forward the trends for the Chicago market that we're seeing look pretty positive.
You're going to get some PKF data for example that they would imply Chicago over the next 5 years is likely to have stronger growth trends than the average U.S.
market.
A minute from us [ph] our acquisition decisions are certainly we start with market but we also we end with street corner by street corner decisions and in this case the location of the asset and the brand upside potential and certainly the repositioning potential for the hotel all in our opinion point to significant upside relative to the current run rate.
So part of it is positive market dynamics a lot of it was asset-specific opportunities.
Research Division</strong> So no real positive benefit from MacCormick so to speak? I wouldn't say it that way.
I think the MacCormick -- there have been some changes to the MacCormick Center I think their approach to conventions in that market is likely to ultimately help broader market trends.
Remember this hotel is a business transient property when the market compresses to citywide we benefit.
And so our view is that certainly the MacCormick Center stood to improve in the way it was booking citywide into the market over the last few years.
We think they're making steps in the right direction and that's helped our conviction that this market is likely to be a strong one going forward.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's what I thought.
And 1 last follow-up question on any accretion from this asset in 2012.
I apologize if you've talked about this already and I missed it.
You're not assuming anything to come in from this asset for this year correct? We have not as John just mentioned we have not incorporated the impact of this hotel in our full-year guidance.
I would tell you just based on the time here that the [ph] year on seasonality it will probably be a push on FFO basically flat.
And that will benefit us of course on the leverage and on the coverage ratios.
And our next question comes from the line of Tim Wengerd with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Quick question on 1Q.
I'm looking at F&amp;B expense -- or F&amp;B revenues they were up a little over 4% in the quarter expenses hardly increased at all.
I'm wondering is that it's really good flow through on F&amp;B and I'm wondering if that's because of the gastro pubs or is that something that we should expect to continue? Yes.
I mean look compared -- as you said compared with revenue the revenues were up 4.2% in Q1.
We had strong lounge revenue up 5%.
We also had a good mix of higher quality catering.
So what I would tell you is I think we had strong flow in Q1 we'll continue to have a flow in the outer months but you have to take into the fact that we're continuing to benefit from these conversions taking restaurant and lounges out and adding meeting space particularly at Long Wharf we've added this 5 000 square foot ocean front space and have been doing very well with that incrementally.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then moving on to just development costs and what you guys think.
Where do you think development cost are for say a 300- or 500-room upper upscale-type product in markets like San Diego or New York or DC? Sure.
Obviously having just -- or being in the process of acquiring a hotel in Chicago we spent a fair amount of time looking at development costs in that market.
And it's ultimately going to -- it's going to come down to a lot of the characteristics of the property but a typical hotel like the hotel we just acquired we're in the process of acquiring the starting point is recent data points.
So you look at the JW Marriott in Chicago for example which was just built at a price that we believe was somewhere in the $600 000 to $700 000 per key.
There was a Renaissance conversion in the market also that was somewhere in the $450 000 per key.
So for an upper upscale hotel in a major market you're anywhere from $400 000 to let's call it $800 000 depending on land cost and specific features of the hotel.
And our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Paul [ph].
From the GSA scandal if you guys are seeing any kind of cancellations or even inquiries on cancellations.
And then finally how much of your business is from government group bookings? So we missed the first part of your question I think it was related the GSA scandal and any impact on bookings.
And the answer there is [indiscernible] none.
And then as far as government business goes that's also kind of an interesting market-by-market dynamic where using the D.C.
market for example government is available at basically as needed.
So hotels when they need to fill up they can access the government trends pretty well at Tysons and the DC Renaissance and then other market governments is less impactful.
But if you look at our full portfolio government comprises 3.8% of the total demand base in terms of our segmentation.
And there are no further questions in the queue at this time.
I'll now turn the call back over to Ken Cruse for any closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you very much Patricia and thank you all for joining us on our call today.
We look forward to meeting with you in the weeks and months to come and thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you again for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Sunstone Hotel Investors Second Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Friday August 3 2012.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to Bryan Giglia Senior Vice President of Corporate Finance of Sunstone Hotel Investors.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you John.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
By now you should have all received a copy of our second quarter's earnings release and our supplemental which were released yesterday after the market closed.
If you do not yet have a copy you can access it on our website at www.sunstonehotels.com.
Before we begin this call I'd like to remind everyone that this call contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties including those described in our prospectuses 10-Qs 10-Ks and other filings with the SEC which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
We caution you to consider those factors in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
We also note that this call may contain non-GAAP financial information including EBITDA adjusted EBITDA FFO adjusted FFO and hotel EBITDA margins.
We are providing that information as a supplement to information prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
With us on the call today are: Ken Cruse President and Chief Executive Officer; Marc Hoffman Chief Operating Officer; and John Arabia Chief Financial Officer.
After our prepared remarks the team will be available to answer your questions.
I'd like to turn the call over to Ken.
Ken please go ahead.
Thanks Brian and thank you all for joining us today.
On today's call I'll start by reviewing some of the high points from our second quarter.
I'll then discuss our recent transaction activity.
And finally I'll provide our perspective on industry fundamentals and Sunstone's positioning.
Marc will then cover operations in detail and John will discuss our balance sheet and finance transactions as well as our updated guidance before I conclude our prepared remarks and open up the call to questions.
To start we're pleased with our Q2 results which came in above the high end of guidance and Street consensus.
As compared to Q2 of 2011 our comparable RevPAR growth accelerated in the quarter improving by 7.6% to nearly $143.
Our comparable hotel EBITDA margins improved by 110 basis points to 32.6%.
And when considered on a same-store basis our Q2 margins were just 100 basis points below by our peak levels achieved in 2008 implying that as the recovery ensues our portfolio is on track to materially exceed prior peak EBITDA production.
Our adjusted corporate EBITDA improved by approximately 12% in the quarter to $71.1 million and our adjusted FFO per diluted share improved by approximately 17% to $0.35.
And as compared to Q2 2011 our consolidated debt to total booked capitalization improved by 910 basis points to 43.8%.
In short our ongoing focus on proactive asset management smart reinvestments into our portfolio are helping to drive solid improvements in our operating performance.
In addition to our intense focus on operations we continue to execute on other aspects of our business plan as well.
As we stated before our overall goal is to achieve industry-leading stockholder returns by improving our portfolio quality and scale while gradually deleveraging our balance sheet.
During and after the quarter we have taken a number of positive steps in this direction.
First in June we closed on our acquisition of the 417-room Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile.
We completed a master plan for this hotel and we've initiated a comprehensive renovation program into positioning the Hyatt as one of downtown Chicago's top business transient facilities.
The renovation will be complete next summer and will result in a complete redefinition of the hotel's restaurant and bar public spaces meeting spaces and guest rooms.
The renovation will result in a net addition of 2 keys bringing the hotel to a total of 419 keys when complete.
Second in July we closed on our acquisition of our third downtown Chicago asset the 357-room Hilton Garden Inn Chicago Downtown/Magnificent Mile.
The hotel's strong urban location superior RevPAR and EBITDA per key efficient urban select service model and close proximity to our other downtown Chicago hotels make this a highly complementary addition to our portfolio.
As previously announced we're proceeding with our plan to capitalize on meaningful synergies across our 3 hotel Magnificent Mile portfolio through coordinated revenue management and by combining operations management of the Hilton Garden Inn with our Embassy Suites Chicago which is located directly across the street.
From a portfolio perspective the Hilton Garden Inn generated RevPAR of approximately $169 in Q2.
This was roughly 20% higher than our portfolio average.
As you may have seen when we announced the deal the price of which we acquired the hotel was 11.7x 2012 forecasted EBITDA before adjusting for synergies with the Embassy Suites.
This purchase multiple was a full turn below the EBITDA multiple at which we issued shares to fund the acquisition based on consensus estimates for our 2012 EBITDA.
The third transaction we've recently completed is the previously announced sale of the 284-room Marriott Del Mar for $66 million.
The transaction is in the final stages of rating agency approval and we expect the sale to close within the next few weeks.
This divestiture will eliminate approximately $47 million in mortgage debt and will improve our portfolio quality by removing a smaller lower RevPAR hotel.
From a portfolio perspective the Del Mar Marriott generated RevPAR of $107.80 in Q2 which was roughly 24% below our portfolio average.
The price at which we're selling the Marriott Del Mar equate to approximately 13.7x 2012 forecasted EBITDA which is a full turn above EBITDA multiple at which Sunstone shares currently trade based on consensus estimates for 2012 EBITDA.
So these 3 transactions 2 well-priced equity funded urban hotel acquisitions and 1 disposition and a highly leveraged low RevPAR suburban hotel are 100% consistent with our stated strategy of improving the quality and scale of our portfolio while methodically deleveraging our balance sheet in a highly shareholder-friendly way.
I'll spend a minute now on industry fundamentals.
While it’s difficult to say how much stronger the U.S.
lodging industry might have been absent the ongoing macroeconomic turbulence over the past 12 months it is clear that the macroeconomic concerns have not translated into any measurable degradation of lodging industry fundamentals.
In fact industry fundamentals have remained highly constructive over the past year and continue to improve.
Our belief that the lodging industry is in the first half of a potentially prolonged recovery is supported by the following: First businesses are investing.
Traditionally U.S.
corporate capital investing trends have been highly correlated to U.S.
travel times.
In short the conditions that lead U.S.
corporations to make investments in their businesses often also spur U.S.
corporation to send their employees on the road to meet customers and drive commerce.
Year-over-year U.S.
business capital investments were up 7.2% in Q2 following an increase of 5.4% in Q1.
This is a positive harbinger for lodging demand.
Second groups are booking.
Our portfolio produced more group per room nights booked for all future periods in the second quarter of 2012 than in any other second quarter in the past 5 years.
For Q2 as compared to the second quarter of 2011 our group production increased 13.3% and our 2013 pace is now up 13.5%.
Third supply trends remain muted.
Hotel supply is expected to grow by approximately 1% per annum till at least 2014 which is roughly 50% of the long-term average and materially below the supply levels that helped to magnify prior cyclical declines.
In light of such muted supply trends we expect both rate and occupancy to improve even if we see a moderation in growth of demand for lodging.
And Finally innovation will drive profit growth.
We continue to work with our operators to implement new programs and initiatives throughout our portfolio and to driving operational efficiencies and greater profitability.
Examples include a portfolio-wide energy efficiency program we implemented in the first quarter ongoing steps to consolidate and modernize food and beverage operations and increasingly streamlined staffing models with respect to both labor and overhead.
We continue to take meaningful steps to improve our portfolio quality and scale while deleveraging our balance sheet in a shareholder-friendly way.
Our balance plan is working as evidenced by Sunstone's material outperformance in terms of shareholder returns since our new leadership team was finalized last fall.
And yet we recognize we have a great deal of wood to chop to achieve our long-term objectives.
Sunstone now enters very well positioned institutional grade upper upscale portfolio.
Our average hotel size is 415 keys.
The majority of our hotels are recently renovated with strong appeal to business transient travelers and our Asset Management team continues to find ways to drive profitability while holding our operators accountable to achieving their goals our primary exposures at the top urban growth centers in the U.S.
And yet we continue to trade at a discount EBITDA multiple to most of our comparable peers in spite of our strong growth and attractive gearing in the context of what we believe will be a sustained U.S.
lodging recovery.
We see this as a material opportunity to deliver strong returns to our investors over the foreseeable future.
We couldn't be more confident in our plan or ability to unlock Sunstone's full potential in terms of earnings growth and shareholder returns from this point forward.
With that I'll now turn the call to Marc Hoffman to discuss our portfolio operations in greater detail.
Thank you Ken and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
I will review our portfolio second quarter operating performance in greater detail and provide an update on our major 2012 CapEx projects.
All hotel information discussed today unless otherwise noted is for our 32 Hotel portfolio which includes on a pro forma basis all 2011 acquisitions including the Doubletree Guest Suites Times Square the JW Marriott New Orleans and the Hilton San Diego Bayfront and includes on a pro forma basis the 2012 acquisition of the Hilton Garden Inn Chicago Downtown/Magnificent Mile which is not included in our earnings release since we did not acquire the hotel until after the quarter's end.
The Hyatt Chicago which is currently noncomparable and the Marriott Del Mar are excluded.
For the second quarter our pro forma comparable portfolio RevPAR was up 7.7% to $143.53 driven by a 3.7% increase in occupancy and a 3.8% increase in ADR.
12 of our hotels generated double-digit RevPAR growth including the Renaissance Orlando Courtyard LAX Hilton San Diego Bayfront and the Hilton North Houston to name a few.
From a total room segmentation standpoint in Q2 group revenues were up 8.9% with a 3.5% growth in ADR driven primarily by the Hilton San Diego Bayfront Renaissance Orlando Marriott Long Wharf and the JW Marriott New Orleans.
Q2 transient-only room revenue increased a strong 7.7% to last year with a 4.6% increase in ADR.
Q2 transient room revenue benefited from strength at the Fairmont Newport Beach Hilton Times Square and Courtyard LAX which was offset by weaknesses at the JW Marriott New Orleans the Renaissance-LAX and The Kahler Grand.
In 2002 -- in Q2 our hotels had 657 sellout nights compared to 496 sellout nights in the second quarter of 2011 showing the continued signs of strengthening demand in our portfolio.
Similar to Q1 this is the highest number of sellouts in 5 years for Q2 indicating our portfolio is operating at occupancy levels that will enable our operators to continue to compress rates and capture a higher percentage of premium rated business going forward.
Marriott Long Wharf Chicago Embassy suites and Courtyard LAX also had significant increase and sellout room nights.
The Renaissance DC was able to achieve a RevPAR growth of 1.7% in the second quarter.
This is stronger than the negative minus 17.5% experienced during the first quarter.
We expect the second quarter to be the strongest quarter of the year for this hotel as Q3 and Q4 will be greatly impacted by the displacement from rooms and renovation from our -- and a soft D.C.
market.
The renovation is currently in full swing which we expect to result in $3 million to $4 million of displacement during Q3 and Q4 of this year.
2013 is still looking strong in DC with group pace up 46.7% and we continue to expect 2013 to be a stellar year at the DC Renaissance.
The 12 hotels we completed significant renovations at in 2011 continue to ramp up nicely with Q2 RevPAR up 11.4%.
As many of these hotels completed the renovations in Q1 to Q4 last year we expect to see continued comparable growth in the third quarter as we realize the return on our invested capital.
As noted our 2012 group pace is up 6.1% over 2011 with all the growth coming from additional group room nights.
On a comparable portfolio basis our group pace at the end of Q1 was up 7.7%.
Our pace growth declined between Q1 and Q2 is because our hotels have less availability in the back half of the year.
In Q2 our hotel group sales departments production for all current and future group bookings excluding the Hilton Garden Inn and the Hilton San Diego Bayfront was up 12.2% compared to Q2 last year which is the highest group bookings in the last 4 years.
Group production including the Hilton San Diego Bayfront was down minus 3.3%.
As a mega hotel the Hilton San Diego Bayfront is likely to have larger swings in group production from quarter-to-quarter that will skew our entire portfolio.
Year-to-date our comparable portfolio including the Hilton San Diego Bayfront is up 21.8% in group production.
As an indication of both our operator's ability to compress business into higher-rated segments and the continued recovery in the business demand in the second quarter our revenues from premium demand sources were strong with pro forma comparable revenues increasing 8.4% and the majority of that coming from ADR increasing 7.6% and premium room nights increasing 0.8%.
As hotels continue to mix shift their business into higher-rated segments our corporate negotiated business increased slightly up 1.3% in Q2.
We have continued to be more aggressive on both shifting out of the lower-rated channels particularly the discount channels as well as taking higher-rated business from these channels.
We saw a 7.3% rate increase in our discount business in the second quarter.
Our asset managers continue to work closely with our hotels and operators on a weekly basis to maximize hotel room strategies and profits through nimble rate and occupancy strategies depending upon the changing market conditions street corner by street corner.
In addition we continue to work with all our hotel operators to ensure that as RevPAR increases operating expenses do not creep back in unless significant occupancy increases justify higher costs and we as asset managers do agree to those increases.
Moving to CapEx.
During the second quarter we invested $26.7 million in our portfolio.
For full year 2012 we expect to invest between $85 million and $100 million in the portfolio including major renovations of the Renaissance Washington D.C Renaissance Westchester and the Hyatt Regency Newport Beach hotels.
Two of our most significant investments will be the complete rooms bathrooms and corridor renovation of the 807-room Renaissance Washington D.C.
which we are budgeting at $25 million and the ordering and initial phase of the conversion of the Hyatt Chicago.
The majority of the work for the Hyatt Chicago will be done in the first half of 2013.
We'll begin to place this deposit and start some work towards the end of 2012.
Overall we expect to incur approximately $3 million to $5 million in renovation-related revenue displacement during 2012 which is roughly $1 million to $3 million higher than the displacement we incurred in 2011.
With that I'll turn the call over to John.
John go ahead.
Thank you Marc.
Good morning everyone.
Today I'll give you an overview of several topics including: first our liquidity and access to capital; second our leverage profile and recently completed and anticipated finance transactions; and third details regarding our earnings guidance.
With respect to liquidity Sunstone ended the second quarter with approximately $278 million of cash including $205 million of unrestricted cash.
Subsequent to the end of the quarter we closed on the acquisition of the 357-room Hilton Garden Inn Chicago for almost $92 million resulting in the adjusted unrestricted cash balance of approximately $113 million.
In addition to our strong cash position we have an undrawn $150 million line of credit and 14 unencumbered assets including the Hyatt Chicago and the Hilton Garden Inn Chicago.
In 2011 these unencumbered hotels collectively generated approximately $55 million of EBITDA.
Our unrestricted cash balance exceeds the $58 million total of all of our debt maturities through 2015.
At the end of the quarter Sunstone had $1.48 billion of consolidated debt which includes 100% of the $236 million mortgage secured by the Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
Adjusting for the debt attributed to our minority partners in this asset our pro rata debt balance is currently $1.42 billion.
Our debt has a weighted average term to maturity of nearly 5 years and an average interest rate on all of our debt including the effects of our interest rate derivative agreements is just under 5%.
Our variable-rate debt as a percentage of total debt stands at 28% and $58 million of debt maturing through early 2015 represents less than 2% of our current enterprise value.
Over the past quarter we made considerable progress towards our goal of reducing leverage in a methodical and shareholder-friendly manner.
As a result of the repayment of the Long Beach Renaissance mortgage the issuance of roughly $185 million of equity and the acquisition of our 2 unlevered Chicago hotels our ratio of net debt and preferred to trailing pro forma EBITDA now stands at 7x.
This figure represents a 90 basis point reduction from where we stood at the end of the first quarter of 2012 and a 190 basis point reduction over the past year.
Furthermore we expect to end 2012 with a ratio of net debt and preferred EBITDA of 6.6x following the sale of Marriott Del Mar.
Despite recent progress we'll continue to reduce our leverage in a manner that protects or enhances shareholder value as we look to sell highly levered assets and issue equity to fund hotels when the value of our currency properly reflects the intrinsic value of our portfolio.
Now let's turn to our updated earnings guidance.
A full reconciliation of our current guidance can be found on Pages 16 and 17 of our supplemental as well as in our earnings release.
We expect third quarter 2012 RevPAR growth of 3% to 5% with adjusted EBITDA of between $57 million and $60 million and adjusted FFO per diluted share between $0.20 and $0.23.
As Ken noted our second quarter performance has led us to increase our full year 2012 guidance adjusted for acquisitions and equity issuances.
We have increased the midpoint of our adjusted EBITDA guidance by $2.5 million to a range of $239 million and $245 million and  increased the midpoint of our adjusted FFO guidance by $0.02 per diluted share to a range of $0.97 to $1.02.
As Marc noted we expect that RevPAR in the second half of 2012 will be negatively impacted by isolated factors including software business in Washington D.C.
and approximately $3 million to $5 million of hotel revenue displacement from our sizeable renovation activity.
Furthermore we are mindful of the relatively soft economic news of late and therefore we have taken a marginally more conservative view towards operating fundamentals in the second half of the year.
That said we remain optimistic regarding the outlook for revenue and profit growth in the remainder of 2012 as a result of positive group booking pace strong group booking production and healthy pricing pressure in many cities stemming from high number of sold out room nights.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Ken to wrap up our prepared remarks.
Thank you very much John.
Just a few closing remarks before opening the call up to questions.
As I noted earlier in spite of the difficult macroeconomic backdrop lodging industry fundamentals have continued to strengthen over the past year and remained highly constructive while as John noted we are conservative in our estimate of the industry fundamentals for the remainder of the year.
Supply trends and capital costs are at historic lows while lodging demand continues to build with groups booking and business travelers hitting the road in record numbers.
The lodging industry's leading indicators clearly point toward prolonged growth over the years ahead.
Sunstone's recently renovated well located portfolio is positioned to capitalize on continued lodging industry growth.
And while we will continue to deleverage in a measured and deliberate way such as by funding acquisitions using equity price to  attract [ph]growth valuations and by using excess cash flow to repay debt rather than funding material cash dividends.
We believe our balance sheet is now attractively geared for the current phase of the cycle especially when considering our low-cost well-staggered single asset mortgage structure and the fact that 14 of our hotels are completely unencumbered by indebtedness.
Apart from our solid portfolio and well-capitalized balance sheet our greatest competitive advantage lies with our team.
Over the past year our carefully selected leadership team has crystalized exceptionally well.
While each of us has room to improve the team's capabilities chemistry discipline and enthusiasm are in my opinion second to none.
We have a lot of be proud of at Sunstone but I am most proud of my association with such a talented group.
As I said earlier our goal going forward is to continue to unlock Sunstone's considerable potential by adhering to our strategy and building a positive track record one smart step at a time.
Thank you for your time today and we greatly appreciate your interest in Sunstone.
And we look forward to meeting with many of you over the next couple of months.
With that let's open up the call to questions.
John please go ahead.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question today comes from David Loeb from Baird.
Research Division</strong> I thought maybe you could talk a little bit about acquisitions.
I'm particularly interested in how the pipeline looks in pricing.
But I'd also like to hear about your manager relationships and whether that's likely a source of acquisitions particularly since you did some shuffling related to Chicago.
First of all the manager relationships.
If you look at the Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile acquisition actually that was in parts sourced through one of our strong manager relationships with Davidson who was one of our top operators.
We hold that group in very high esteem.
So we've made no secret about it that we want to spend time rewarding managing relationships that have produced well for our company.
And I think we've done -- we've kind of kept our word on that one.
Going forward we'll certainly source acquisitions through a variety of different channels least likely to be the broker channels.
Everything that we've acquired over the past year has been done so as has been acquired through kind of creative relationship based on channels which would include managers.
So the first part of your question as far as the pricing and pipeline we had a conversation about this earlier in the week that pricing has continued to improve the market has continued to I think rationalize in terms of where deals can get done.
If you're smart about it and creative about it you can find some exceptional deals and I would hold on to Hilton Garden Inn Chicago transaction as exactly that.
Once again we were able to leverage our manager relationship.
We were able to provide a contract to the manager of the Hilton Garden Inn in exchange for acquiring that hotel at a very attractive price a full term below the EBITDA multiple at which we issued equity to buy the hotel.
And yet the asset generates RevPAR well in excess of our portfolio average EBITDA per kilo in excess of our portfolio average and has the ability to achieve significantly higher numbers once Marc Hoffman and his team are done implementing their complexing strategy with the management of that hotel and the Embassy Suites across the street.
So yet another example where we have rewarded a manager relationship with a contract in exchange for a smart transaction.
As far as cap rates and valuations go obviously the interest rate environment has continued to improve with the 10-year at record lows.
You're seeing a much better functioning CMBS market better functionality also in the company loan market and the term loan market for that matter.
We're not a user of debt but I think it is a good indicator of the health of the potential acquisitions market.
So while in general at these levels we're probably not an aggressive acquirer unless we can acquire hotels at meaningful discounts to where we are able to issue equity to acquire them we do see deals presenting themselves on a daily basis good pipeline.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then on the flip side of that I understand that dispositions are taking a while I understand how that process works.
But are there more behind that or are there other hotels that you would look at as potential disposition to targets? How many characteristics are like that? Sure.
As we've said before our -- part of our portfolio management strategy is to continue to build an urban core upper upscale institutional grade portfolio compiled of larger hotels generally hotels that are generating RevPAR in excess of what we're currently generating portfolio-wide which for the second quarter was about $143.
So there are a number of hotels you can see in our supplemental that are legacy assets for the company that may not fit within that core strategy.
And over time we may look to place those in homes that are more suited to those asset types.
At this point we're not in a position to comment on any asset sales but I think the angle that you're headed is a good  one as certainly improving our portfolio quality can occur through acquisitions through aggressive asset management through smart deployment of capital into our existing hotels and by pruning certain hotels from the portfolio.
Your next question comes from Eli Hackel with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
Can you just go over some of the synergies you think you can have by clustering the hotels in Chicago possibly maybe even a dollar amount there? Also can you just maybe talk what you think you got in terms of replacement cost? And then finally I think there's some new limited service supply coming into Chicago market next year.
Just wanted to know your thoughts about supplying that market.
So that's one question.
The second one is what's the longer-term strategy related to the preferred especially given how low debt financing is right now.
Great.
I'll touch on both of those and I'll also offer the microphone to both Marc Hoffman for the Chicago fees and then John on the preferreds.
As it relates to the Chicago acquisition you're right.
First of all on the synergies front we did not disclose specifics on the synergies.
We feel it's prudent to kind of hold back on that number until we're able to deliver on it.
As you can imagine we penciled out or more than penciled out a number of direct savings opportunities.
And more importantly or equally importantly we've also identified specific and significant revenue management opportunities.
You can look at the -- look at our supplemental this quarter and you can see how well the Hilton Garden Inn performed in terms of RevPAR versus the Embassy Suites across the street.
And yet the Embassy Suites is the hotel we renovated last year.
And so its -- we would expect that asset to be performing at or above the RevPAR trend on a year-over-year basis than the Hilton Garden Inn.
I think part of what you're seeing there in terms of the disconnect is competition between those 2 hotels whereas going forward you're going to see cooperation and a joint revenue management strategy.
So significant opportunities we believe on the upside in both hotels.
And then on the operations front as you can imagine you've got 2 relatively small hotels that when we combine the 2 we can save quite a bit on running them as a 700-plus room single asset.
They're just across the street from one another.
I'm not going to provide any specifics in terms of the dollar amounts but you can imagine that it's considerable especially relative to the EBITDA that's currently generated by both of those assets.
As it relates to the supply in the market? Absolutely.
There's a 3-plex coming on several blocks up from our hotel that's being developed by White Lodging.
That will be delivered in the next year or so.
It’s further up in the market.
It was highly factored into our analysis when we acquired the Hilton Garden Inn.
The way we see it is we're Magnificent Mile on State St.
That's further up in the market and it’s a very deep Chicago market.
We don't expect that that asset will have significant impact on our hotels any of the 3 hotels that we own in the city.
However we are cognizant of it and we're aware that likely will at least create some turbulence in the supply market for a little while as that hotel is assimilated.
As far as your question on the preferred.
Clearly 8% paper which is trading right at about par at this point with no prepayment penalty is representing a pretty high fixed cost for the company.
As we've stated time and time again deleveraging is one of our core goals.
When you can get rid of expensive paper like that even though it does not have a maturity and do it without the penalty that's obviously high in our list of potential debt paydowns.
That's it.
We have nothing to announce today in terms of repaying preferred.
And also our strategy really is not and I don't believe it will entail issuing equity directly to shift capital on our capitalist stock.
We'd rather deleverage through smart acquisitions like the Hilton Garden Inn like the Hyatt in Chicago rather than just issuing equity straight up to repay debt.
So -- and again we characterize the preferred as indebtedness.
Marc did you have anything else on Chicago or we're good there? And John anything else on the preferreds? John here.
As you probably -- the reason you're probably bringing these questions up is obviously the preferred market has been incredibly strong.
We've seen a number of very well-priced issuances with literally over the past week or 2.
There could be an opportunity there something that we continue to evaluate if potentially able to swap those out with much lower cost paper.
That's all that I would add.
Your next question comes from Ian Weissman with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Quick question for you and I don't know if you'll comment specifically on the progress of the noncore asset sales that we were talking about earlier in the year.
But what would you say has been sort of the biggest impediment to getting those deals done? Biggest impediment to noncore asset sales.
We're not going to sell hotels at fire sale prices.
You've seen a transaction market over the course of this year that's continue to improve.
As you remember 1.5 years ago 2 years ago most of the deals are being done by other REITs.
Now we're starting to see the market broaden out a little bit and the types of acquirers that would be quality candidates to acquire our noncore hotels have materialized over the course of this year.
But our position is well yes pruning the portfolio and harvesting gains on assets that we've executed our full business plan and -- that are no longer representative of the core hotels that we'd like to own.
It's clearly part of our strategy.
We're going to do it in a measured and deliberate and smart way.
And as to the result it takes longer to negotiate deal terms.
And then because these assets are encumbered by  assumable mortgage debt that's actually one of the attractive features for most acquirers it also makes the assumption -- the sale process that much more difficult and time-consuming because you've got to deal with servicers then special servicers and then finally rating agencies.
And as I mentioned on the call the Marriott Del Mar sale is currently at the rating agency level so we've cleared every single approval hurdle at this point then we've got one more rating agency to approve the deal.
And each step of the way can take between 1 to 6 weeks and it takes time.
Research Division</strong> Everyone talks about deals and gateway cities but I'll just make a general question and maybe it fits within your noncore assets.
But do you think you'll see an acceleration of noncore sales over the next 6 months? Not noncore but called Tier 2 Tier 3 assets? Possibly because again you've seen that the mortgage market continue to evolve to a point where acquirers who may be less well capitalized or smaller entities than a public company can access the secured mortgage market at a pretty high LTB level at fairly attractive terms.
This is again about CMBS-like company and even term debt now it's available so yes.
That as I alluded to in my comments was probably going to be a solid driver for this second tier asset sales because again the acquirers themselves have slightly different characteristics than the companies like ours that are selling them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And finally corporate expense came a little bit heavier than we were expecting.
Is there something going on in this quarter? And then what's a good run rate going forward? So sure for corporate expense we did have some deal costs during the course of the quarter.
We spent a fair amount of time and resources exploring a couple of different opportunities that are still kind of in the hopper if you will so we ran a fair amount of acquisitions and pending acquisition costs through the P&amp;L.
We also had some costs with respect to the sale of Del Mar.
Beyond that it was really kind of normal business on the G&amp;A side.
Run rate forecast G&amp;A is still as we indicated I think in the release between $19 million and then $20 million.
Your next question comes from Smedes Rose with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you just if you could maybe just talk about some of your gateway markets kind of meetings calendar for next year.
And specifically in D.C.
it sounds like you are -- transit the Renaissance who are shaping up well but if you look at the convention calendar for the D.C.
Convention Center it's really very weak for next year.
And I'm just wondering kind of what's happening at your property and do you think the city-wide convention calendar will improve next year? And then maybe just sort of touch on Boston and Chicago and some of your other markets what you're seeing for next year? Sure Smedes let me start that off and then I'll give it over to Mark.
Actually D.C.
and Baltimore are both up next year in terms of the number of citywide's.
And D.C you've got the combination of the inauguration and all sorts of other activity that happens on the year following the election.
I got to say we couldn't be more bullish on D.C in 2013 and Baltimore tends to curtail off of what's going on in D.C.
You're right.
Some of the other strong markets this year are city-wides including New York and Boston for example.
and San Diego as well are going to see slightly lower run rate on city-wides next year.
But I think that's one of the benefits of having fairly major group boxes in all of these markets that you see a rotation into one market and out of another.
And -- let me give you over to Marc because you touched some other much more specific information on these assets.
D.C.
2012 citywide's were down significantly as I'm sure you know from the 20 in 2011 to 11 in '12 and total room nights were down -- convention room nights in '12 were down almost 29%.
2013 city-wides are up 3 to 14.
But more importantly they're up 3.
Its where they fall and the types of the city-wides of the 14 conventions 13 of them compress out at more than 15 000 to 20 000 rooms for the city which is very very strong.
Baltimore city-wides in 2012 were down from 21 in '11 to 17 in '12.
And peak city-wide days were down 30-plus percent.
However in 2013 city-wides are back up to 21 with definite pace up almost 30% for city-wides.
Boston was a very strong year in 2012 with 26 city-wides.
And the breadth of those citywide's also north of 7 500 was very strong up from 21 in '11.
2013 the city-wides are back to a more normal run rate of 21.
New York city-wides are up in '12 from 23 to 27.
And in '13 they're sort of back to the normal run rate of 22 to 23.
San Diego.
A very strong year this year 57 city-wide.
We consider city-wide there of anything above 1 500 potential demand.
In 2013 that number's down slightly to north of 50.
In 2015 the current -- 2014 the current pacing for city-wides is around 50 as well.
For our particular hotels we've got very good pace.
Our D.C Renaissance pace is up 47% in '13.
It's down slightly in '14 and then back up 48% in '15.
Orlando's up 9.5% in '13 up a few percent in '14 and up 3-plus percent in '15.
Baltimore is up 39% in '13 '13 and '14 and down about 10 in '15.
And then San Diego is up single digits in '13 '14 and '15.
Your next question comes from Kevin Milota with JPMorgan.
I'm all actually all set.
The product question answered the question.
Your next question comes from Enrique Torres of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could comment on how you think asset values and return expectations have changed if it all in the past 90 days or so given what debt has done.
How have asset values changed in the 90 day s or so? I've got to tell you we don't think that there's been a fundamental change in underlying asset values over the last 90 days.
Definitely do believe as I indicated in my comments that with industry-leading indicators continuing to strengthen and show positivity going forward and then with core interest rates continuing to decline and we kind of look at BAA instead of the U.S.
Treasuries as a better indicator but you'd still see some positive trends on that interest rate.
All of those point to continued strength in asset pricing.
So while we have limited data points and I don't believe there's no valid statistical sampling over the last 90 days of what's happening with asset trends all of the empirical data would point toward continued strengthening in asset prices.
Enrique just very quickly I would add to that.
As Ken said earlier I just want to add emphasis to it that the credit markets are getting a little bit better and you're seeing a little bit more activity more transaction volume that's likely to hit the second half.
And just based on overall pricing chatter and expectations also the number of people that are expected to come to the transaction market I don't think there's been any reduction in asset values over the past 90 days with all the negative economic news.
I think if anything it continues to trickle up.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The improvement in kind of the debt market does that also help with kind of the red tape that you have get through in terms of asset sales and transferring ownership and going to the credit approvals for the new owners? And does it help that process at all or is it really an improvement that market is -- it doesn't -- it's kind of independent of that? Or do they -- or does it make the standards kind of easier to get through the hurdles? I think the process for debt assumption has certainly improved over the last several years.
I mean back in the '08 '09 timeframe it just wasn't going to happen.
And so with that as a reference point certainly the process has improved.
And I agree once there's a more competitive market once acquirers do have viable alternatives to assuming that again if they can repay and replace the debt instead of simply assume it they have a little bit more strength in the negotiation.
So yes you've seen some more rationality pervade the conversation as it relates to loan assumptions.
I don't know how measurable that is but once again certainly the indicators are that that's becoming more high-functioning market.
Your next question comes from Ryan Meliker with MLV &amp; Co.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions for you.
First on group pace that you gave for 2013 of I think up to 13.5% is that revenue or is that rooms? And if it's revenue can you break it up between the rooms and revenue -- and rate? And if its rooms can you give us the rate along with it? It's Ken.
As it relates to fees for 2013 yes we're up 13-plus percent for the whole portfolio.
That's pretty much all rooms.
So rate is slightly up but it’s almost all occupied rooms on our baseline.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> So with that being said maybe this is a good question for Marc are you guys I guess grouping up for 2013? Are you expecting your overall group demand as a portion of your total demand base to be higher in 2013? And are you sacrificing rate to do that in the extent that --  to the extent that there's macro uncertainty and you'd rather be safe than sorry? Yes I mean we saw a group rate increase in Q2 by 3.6% for the 32 pro forma comparable hotels.
And as we talked about we're pacing for group rate basically flat down slightly Q3 Q4.
A lot of the brand the big box houses are talking about strength of group.
The majority of that is really occupancy.
Most of our group pace for '13 that's booked is booked because of contracts signed really as much in '10 and '11.
And somewhat this year we are clearly pushing the rate now for group but I think we want to make sure that we have good base rates that we can continue to drive transient rate which is a huge key.
And as you've seen this year we've got great transient rate growth and we're continuing where we have compression to push group rate very hard.
I think that's a good way to describe that market.
The group pays for  group rooms and limited increase in ADR is part of a mixed management strategy that's enabling our hotels to eliminate these discount channels.
And as the market continues to strengthen as we continue to approach peak occupancy grouping up and filling our hotels even though there's a limited year-over-year increase in rates but filling it with high-rated group business that has terrific ancillary spend in the hotel.
And we're trying to use those that additional base of business to eliminate the discounted channel the hotel they've been accessing over the last couple of years.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> And then just one other quick question and a follow-up to David's question earlier on.
You guys obviously had an incredibly successful arrangement with David.
[ph]You were able to put together a couple of different assets for acquisition.
Are you focused going forward on working with other third party operators as opposed to brands for some of the things that they can bring to the table while you can still maintain some brand relationships? Yes absolutely.
I appreciate you asking that question.
We love the idea of having a competitive stable of top-tier operators running our portfolio.
And as I mentioned in my prepared remarks we also -- while we love to celebrate successes and we want to do a lot of that we also like the ability to hold our operators accountable for achieving the operating objectives that we all set forth.
And so having third-party operators that agree with that approach and are exposed if they don't perform and are rewarded if they do works very well for us.
I should mention that Crestline is the operator of the Hilton Garden Inn in Chicago that we acquired.
When we acquired that hotel from them we kept them in as operator and that's another very strong relationship for us.
Interstate runs a number of our hotels as does Highgate.
It's such that we've got a lot of good third-party operator relationships.
We'd like to continue to build that.
We find that we do have a fair amount of control and interaction with independent operators that in many instances exceeds the level of control that we would have under brand-managed hotels.
And that's not to say that with the brand-managed hotels we don't have a very good aligned relationship.
We made 2 General Manager changes over the last quarter in hotels that have hit our radar screen that's hotels that were underperforming.
They should have done better than what they did.
And working with the manager we made changes to the General Managers.
And those were brand-managed hotels in both cases.
We don't like to follow that course but our managers know across the board whether its brand managed or independent managed that we're going to hold them accountable for strong performance.
Your next question comes from Josh Attie with Citi.
Research Division</strong> The high end of your guidance seems to imply for the fourth quarter RevPAR up 10% is that correct? Am I doing the numbers right? And if it is can you talk about what drives that level of growth at the high end? Sorry actually that's a little bit misleading.
What you're seeing with our numbers is -- we obviously didn't give fourth quarter numbers.
You're right.
If you would just map this thing out across the board you'd end up with a potential for a very significant growth in the fourth quarter.
We're not going to stay that that's not likely or not possible but we're certainly not modeling that level of growth in the fourth quarter.
You're seeing potentially a little bit of conservatism in our third quarter numbers.
But across the board for our fourth quarter numbers we are not showing -- in our current forecast we're not showing a 10% growth in RevPAR.
Research Division</strong> So to hit the high end of your EBITDA and FFO guidance that would be something less than 10% RevPAR growth in the fourth quarter? Significantly less than 10% growth in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay it's just a function of the way the numbers are averaging? Yes yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay and if I could just follow-up on Ian's question on the G&amp;A.
Did you mention that the acquisition costs incurred in the quarter were for pending deals? No it's -- pending deals no.
The pending sale of the Marriott Del Mar yes.
So approximately $1.3 million of acquisitions-related costs for a couple of deals that we went heavy on and ended up concluding they were not the right transactions for the company.
So those were expensed in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay but not for acquisitions that haven't occurred yet? Correct Josh.
Your next question is a follow-up from Smedes Rose with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go back to your commentary on the pace of group bookings for 2013 with rate being flat but demand improving.
So what sort of percentage of your group bookings for next year do you think are on the books now? And is it fair to kind of think about that if maybe you're 50% done that the balance of that you would be more aggressive in pricing so net-net you would expect to see overall group revenues improve next year with higher rate? You're actually absolutely correct.
I mean look the largest percentage of group rooms that are on the books right now are at our 4 big hotels because majority of our remaining hotels are booked within a 12-month booking cycle and we continue to see good rate growth looking at those hotels.
And as I said with us being up 13-plus percent and the majority of it being in rooms we're obviously up in rooms compared to prior year.
And we do expect in our bigger hotels everything being booked inside between now and the end of '13 to have a very solid ADR growth.
We have no further questions at this time.
Please continue.
Thank you John.
Appreciate it.
And thank you all for joining us on the call today.
We look forward to meeting with many of you in the near future.
And we appreciate your continued interest in Sunstone.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
Please disconnect your lines.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Sunstone Hotel Investors Third Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Friday November 2 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Bryan Giglia Senior Vice President of Corporate Finance of Sunstone Hotel Investors.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Alex.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
By now you should have all received a copy of our third quarter's earnings release and our supplemental which we released yesterday.
If you do not yet have a copy you can access them on our website at www.sunstonehotels.com.
Before we begin this call I would like to remind everyone that this call contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties including those described in our prospectuses 10-Qs 10-Ks and other filings with the SEC which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
We caution you to consider those factors in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
We also note that this call may contain non-GAAP financial information including EBITDA adjusted EBITDA FFO adjusted FFO and hotel EBITDA margins.
We are providing that information as a supplement to information prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
With us today on the call are Ken Cruse President and Chief Executive Officer; Marc Hoffman Chief Operating Officer; and John Arabia Chief Financial Officer.
After our prepared remarks the team will be available to answer your questions.
I'd like to now turn the call over to Ken.
Ken please go ahead.
Thanks Bryan and thank you all for joining us today.
First and foremost our thoughts and concerns are with those who have been impacted by the extreme weather on the East Coast this week.
We want to thank all of our team members at our hotels for their selfless work ensuring the safety and welfare of our guests and assets during the storm.
While we were impacted by a fair number of cancellations during the week which we'll discuss in more detail during this call our hotel did not sustain any notable damage from the storm and all of our hotels have remained fully operational.
While travel in and out of select East Coast cities remains challenging we expect things to get back to normal fairly quickly.
Shifting the focus for today's call I'll start by reviewing some of the high points from our third quarter operational results and I'll then provide a status report on our business plan execution.
And finally I'll give some thoughts on our near-term focus items and industry fundamentals.
Mark will then cover operations in detail and John will discuss our balance sheet and finance transactions as well as our updated guidance before I conclude our prepared remarks and open up the call to questions.
With respect to operations our third quarter revenue and earnings met or exceeded the high end of our prior guidance.
Our comparable RevPAR improved by 5.1% to $138.01.
I should note that our comparable RevPAR growth was negatively impacted during the quarter by renovation-related displacement at our 807-room Renaissance Washington D.C.
Our portfolio RevPAR excluding the Renaissance Washington D.C.
was up a solid 6.9% in the third quarter.
Our portfolio RevPAR growth was driven by a $3.47 increase in rate which grew to $171.02 for the quarter and by a 230-basis-point increase in occupancy which grew to 80.7% for the quarter.
At a portfolio occupancy of 80.7% our pricing power is strong and we would expect to see continued improvement in room rates and flow through as the recovery continues.
For the third quarter our comparable hotel EBITDA margins improved by 130 basis points to 28.8%.
This margin performance is just 100 basis points below our prior peak levels for the third quarter also implying that as the recovery continues our portfolio is on track to exceed prior peak EBITDA production.
Our adjusted corporate EBITDA improved by approximately 14.6% to $60.1 million in Q3.
And in the third quarter our adjusted FFO per share improved by approximately 15% to $0.23 and our consolidated debt to total book capitalization has improved by over 17 points from almost 60% a year ago to just over 42% for the third quarter this year.
Turning now to our business plan execution.
Since our last call we've taken a number of steps toward our goal of gradually deleveraging our balance sheet while improving the quality and scale of our portfolio.
For example during the third quarter we completed the previously announced dispositions of 4 highly levered noncore hotels for an adjusted gross sale price of $173.2 million.
These dispositions have enhanced our portfolio and our balance sheet by reducing our indebtedness by approximately $123 million increasing our liquidity by approximately $46 million increasing our average hotel size by 15 keys to 428 keys and increasing our portfolio RevPAR by approximately 2.5%.
In addition to completing 4 noncore asset sales during the third quarter we closed on a previously announced acquisition of our third downtown Chicago asset the 357-room Hilton Garden in Chicago Downtown/Magnificent Mile.
This hotel's strong urban location superior RevPAR and EBITDA per key efficient urban select service model and close proximity to our other Downtown Chicago hotels makes this a highly complementarity addition to our portfolio.
RevPAR at the Hilton Garden Inn Chicago increased by 13.5% in Q3 to $162.87 which was roughly 18% higher than our portfolio average.
As you may have seen when we announced the deal the price at which we acquired the hotel was 11.7x our 2012 forecasted EBITDA.
In other words the purchase multiple for this well-located high RevPAR high-margin hotel was a full turn below the EBITDA multiple at which we issued equity to fund the acquisition.
Clearly an example of a deal that can currently improve our portfolio quality and scale while improving our credit profile in a way that benefited our shareholders.
In addition to acquisitions and dispositions we've continued to make select reinvestments into our hotels.
In October we completed a $25 million renovation of our Renaissance Washington D.C.
As evidenced by the hotel's 22.6% increase in group pace for 2013 the property is effectively leveraging its nearly enhanced physical product and outstanding location to drive higher rated group and transient business.
We've also completed significant public space renovations at our JW Marriott New Orleans as we continue to upgrade the quality of this hotel to build on a strong growth we've achieved since acquiring this asset in 2011.
Just as we have seen solid returns from our 2011 capital investments into properties such as our Marriott Boston-Long Wharf Marriott Quincy Courtyard LAX and Marriott Houston we look to our recent capital investments to drive material returns in 2013 and beyond which makes through a good segue to our near-term focus items.
While we will continue to pursue high quality acquisitions using our shares as currency when such acquisitions can be executed at attractive valuations relative to our cost of equity given the current weakness in our shares acquisitions are not a priority at this moment.
Instead we're employing a number of other tools for improving our portfolio quality while gradually deleveraging our balance sheet.
These tools include our ongoing intense involvement in all areas of hotel-level operations potential levered or noncore asset sales and additional transformational investments into portfolio.
With respect to investments into our portfolio we've initiated several new renovation and repositioning projects.
During the first quarter of 2013 we expect to invest approximately $15 million into our Hilton Times Square to fully renovate all 460 guest rooms bathrooms and corridors creating a rich and appealing new rooms product to further enhance the business transient appeal of this premier asset.
In 2013 we also expect to invest approximately $25 million on the previously announced complete repositioning of our 417-room Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile.
The complete repositioning which will include all public spaces guest rooms and bathrooms is designed to elevate the hotel to a sophisticated destination catering to high-rated business transient and group travelers.
We are well underway with this project.
The model rooms have been approved the renderings of the public spaces look outstanding and we expect to complete the renovation of our Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile in the third quarter of 2013.
Our other significant Q4 and 2013 repositions include a $12 million renovation of all 403 guest rooms and certain function and resort spaces at our Hyatt Newport Beach.
Also in 2013 we'll do a $12 million renovation of all 347 guest rooms and public spaces at our Renaissance Westchester.
And finally we're embarking on a full redevelopment of the outdoor resort and function spaces at our Hilton San Diego Bayfront hotel.
Just as we've seen with our other recent renovations these projects will entail some near-term revenue displacement in exchange for what we expect will be ongoing revenue outperformance once the renovation work is completed.
On this point we expect our renovation program to result in roughly $2 million of revenue displacement in the fourth quarter and roughly $6 million to $8 million of revenue displacement in 2013.
I'll spend a minute now on the ongoing state of the recovery.
While our attention is naturally drawn to isolated short-term bumps in the road such as the extreme weather events of this week or even the uncertainty surrounding the upcoming election we believe it is important to keep recent isolated softness in perspective and focus on long-term fundamentals which remain very compelling for our industry.
Our portfolio occupancy and margins are approaching prior peak levels and industry dynamics point to continued growth for the next several years.
Specifically given our industry's historic lows supply trends business capital spending strengthening demand in both group and high-rated transient segments and attractive capital costs we are confident that the cycle is fully intact.
Accordingly we believe the lodging industry is facing a potentially prolonged recovery characterized by continued moderate economic growth strong pricing power and solid earnings expansion in the quarters and years to come.
And with that I'll now turn the call over to Marc Hoffman to discuss our portfolio operations in greater detail.
Thank you Ken and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
I will review our portfolio's third quarter operating performance in greater detail and provide an update on our major 2012 CapEx projects.
All hotel information discussed today unless otherwise noted is for our 30-hotel portfolio which includes on a pro forma basis all 2012 acquisitions including the Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile and Hilton Garden Inn Chicago Downtown/Magnificent Mile.
For the third quarter our pro forma comparable portfolio RevPAR was up 5.1% to $138 driven by a 2.9% increase in occupancy and a 2.1% increase in ADR.
As Ken mentioned the renovation at our Renaissance Washington D.C.
significantly impacted the quarter.
To help understand the short-term impact of this renovation excluding this hotel portfolio RevPAR for the third quarter would have been up 6.9% to $140 driven by a 4.1% increase in occupancy and a 2.7% increase in ADR.
During the third quarter 9 of our hotels generated double-digit RevPAR growth including our Renaissance Orlando Marriott Long Wharf Hilton Garden Inn Chicago and the Hilton Houston North to name a few.
From a total room segmentation standpoint in Q3 group revenues were up 10.5% driven significantly by an increase in occupancy primarily by the Hilton San Diego Bayfront Renaissance Orlando Marriott Long Wharf Marriott Houston North Hilton Houston North and the JW Marriott New Orleans.
Our ADR per group for the third quarter was impacted by the Renaissance Washington D.C.
and Renaissance Baltimore.
Q3 transient-only room revenue increased 3.7% to last year with a 4.4% increase in ADR.
Q3 transient room revenue benefited from the strength of our Marriott Portland Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile Courtyard LAX which was offset by weaknesses in our Renaissance Washington D.C.
Hilton Houston North and the Kahler Grand.
During the third quarter our 30-hotel portfolio had 716 sellout nights compared to 554 sellout nights in the third quarter of 2011 showing the continued signs of the strengthening demand in our portfolio.
Similar to Q1 and Q2 this is the highest number of sellouts in 5 years for Q3.
It also is the highest number of sellouts in any quarter indicating our portfolio is operating at occupancy levels that will enable our operators to continue to compress rates and capture a higher percentage of premium rate in business going forward.
Marriott Long Wharf Embassy Suite Chicago Marriott Portland all saw significant increases in sellout room nights.
Our Renaissance Washington D.C.
witnessed a RevPAR decline of 23.2% in the third quarter.
We expect Q3 to be the weakest quarter of the year for the hotel as it was significantly impacted by the displacement from the rooms' renovation and a softer D.C.
market.
Q3 was impacted by approximately $2 million of displacement in rooms and food and beverage.
This displacement impact will continue through the first half of Q4.
2013 is very very strong at our Renaissance Washington D.C.
with group pace up 23% with more rooms on the books for the -- for next year 2013 than any other year back to 2007.
We continue to expect 2013 to be a stellar year at the D.C.
Renaissance.
The 11 hotels we completed significant renovations in 2010 and 2011 continue to ramp up nicely with Q3 RevPAR up 12.5% on average.
As we completed our renovations at many of these hotels in the first half of last year the continued growth in RevPAR for these hotels is related to the enhanced product and competitiveness of these assets.
Our 2012 group pace is up 2.7% over 2011 with all of the growth coming from additional group room nights.
Our current 2013 group pace is up 8% driven by a 7% growth in room and a 1% growth in rate.
Our 4 big-box hotels are plus 7% for 2013 driven by a 17% increase at our 3 big-box Marriott but offset by a 1.9% loss at our Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
Our JW Marriott New Orleans is strong for next year driven by strong citywide year and the Super Bowl.
In Q3 our hotel group sales department production for all current and future bookings excluding the Hilton San Diego Bayfront was down 7.6% compared to Q3 last year.
However at 225 000 booked rooms it is the second-highest group bookings in the last 4 years for Q3.
Year-to-date our comparable portfolio including the Hilton San Diego Bayfront is up 6.4% in group production.
As our hotels have expanded both their group occupancies and contract base our operators have focused on increasing transient revenues through rates with mixed shifting and compress.
In Q3 our revenues from premium demand sources were up slightly at 1.4% driven significantly by a 2.9% growth in ADR.
Our corporate negotiated business increased slightly up 1.3% in Q3 with a 4.7% growth coming from ADR.
We have continued to be more aggressive on both shifting out of the lower-rated channels particularly the discount channels as well as taking higher-rated business from these channels.
We saw a 5% -- we saw a 5.7% increase in ADR in our discount business in the third quarter.
We continue to work closely with our hotels and operators on a weekly basis to maximize hotel room strategy and profits through nimble rate and occupancy strategy depending upon the changing market conditions street corner by street corner.
In addition we continue to work with all our hotel operators to ensure that as RevPAR increases operating expenses do not creep back in unless significant occupancy increases justify higher costs and we as asset managers do agree to these increases.
As Ken mentioned we'd like to thank all of our operators who have been diligently working this past week to keep the hotel associates guests and assets safe and well taken care of.
Our 8 hotels that were directly impacted by Hurricane Sandy did not suffer notable property damage.
The short-term financial impact of the hurricane has been seen across our portfolio at almost every hotel and we expect the hurricanes to have 100  to 150-basis-point impact on our RevPAR for the fourth quarter.
Our biggest losses came from our hotels that had a large amount of groups on the books for this week.
Moving to CapEx.
During the quarter we invested approximately $28 million in our portfolio.
For the full year 2012 we expect to invest between $85 million and $100 million in the portfolio.
With that I'll turn the call over to John.
John go ahead.
Thank you Marc.
Good morning everyone.
Today I'll give you an overview of several topics including first our liquidity and access to capital; second our leverage profile and recently completed finance transactions; and third details regarding our earnings guidance.
With respect to liquidity Sunstone ended the third quarter with approximately $241 million of cash including $164 million of unrestricted cash.
In addition to our strong cash position we have an undrawn $150 million line of credit and 15 unencumbered assets including the recently acquired Hyatt Chicago and the Hilton Garden Inn Chicago.
On a trailing 12-month basis these unencumbered assets collectively generated approximately $62 million of EBITDA.
At the end of the quarter Sunstone had $1.0 billion -- excuse me $1.40 billion of consolidated debt which includes 100% of the $236 million mortgage secured by the Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
Adjusting for the debt attributed to our more minority partner in this asset our pro rata debt balance is currently $1.34 billion.
Our debt has a weighted average term to maturity of 5.3 years and the average interest rate on all of our debt including the effects of our interest rate derivative agreements is just under 5%.
Our variable rate debt as a percentage of total debt stands at 30%.
We have limited near-term debt maturities as only $58 million of debt matures through early 2015.
This figure represents roughly 2% of our current enterprise value and equates to only 35% of our current unrestricted cash balance.
Over the past quarter we continued to make considerable progress towards our goal of reducing leverage in a methodical and shareholder-friendly manner.
During the third quarter we issued roughly $127 million of equity to fund the acquisition of the Hilton Garden Inn Magnificent Mile and sold 4 highly levered assets to collectively have $123 million of debt.
As a result of these transactions and transactions completed earlier this year our ratio of net debt and preferred to trailing 12-month EBITDA declined to 6.6x at the end of third quarter.
This figure represents a 150-basis-point reduction from where we stood at the end of 2011 and a 230-basis-point reduction since the second quarter of 2011.
We believe that this meaningful reduction in leverage and sizable increase in our overall liquidity has materially reduced the company's risk and comment to cost of little-to-no NAV dilution.
While leverage reduction is a priority to our company increasing shareholder value remains our primary goal.
Therefore we will remain patient continue to sell highly levered assets when pricing is attractive and continue to issue equity to fund acquisitions but only when expected risk-adjusted returns are well in excess of our cost of capital.
Also during the quarter we amended our undrawn $150 million credit facility which was scheduled to mature in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The amendment extended the term of the credit facility by 2 years reduced the borrowing cost and unused fees and provides less restrictive covenants.
The credit facility provides us with access to incremental liquidity.
However we do not currently expect to use the line to fund external growth.
Now let's turn to our updated earnings guidance.
A full reconciliation of our current guidance can be found on pages 16 to 18 of our supplemental as well as in our earnings release.
We expect fourth quarter 2012 RevPAR growth of 1.5% to 3% which includes 50 to 75 basis points of renovation disruption and an estimated 100 to 150 basis points of disruption from Hurricane Sandy.
This translates into fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA between $58 million and $63 million and adjusted FFO per diluted share between $0.23 and $0.27.
As a result of softer-than-anticipated growth in certain markets we have lowered the top end of our full year 2012 guidance.
Our updated adjusted EBITDA guidance now ranges from $232 million to $237 million and our adjusted FFO guidance ranges from $0.93 to $0.97 including approximately $0.02 per share of disruption from Hurricane Sandy.
While we have tempered our growth expectations for the remainder of 2012 we remain optimistic regarding the outlook for revenue and profit growth 2013 and beyond as a result of positive group booking pace strong group booking production and healthy pricing pressure in many cities stemming from a higher number of sold-out room nights.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Ken to wrap up our prepared remarks.
Thank you very much John.
I have just a few closing remarks before opening up the call to questions.
As I noted in my opening comments in spite of recent turbulence our views on lodging fundamentals and the future growth prospects for our industry remain very positive.
While as John noted isolated factors warrant a moderation of our growth estimates for the third quarter our industry's leading indicators clearly point toward prolonged growth over the quarters and years ahead.
Lodging supply trends are in historic lows as our interest rates while business transient and group demand continue to improve.
And across our industry occupancy rates and profit levels are approaching prior peak levels.
In spite of these compelling factors most public lodging companies now trade not only at significant discount to replacement cost but also at steep discounts to private market values of their portfolios.
Sunstone's recently renovated is well positioned to capitalize on continued lodging industry growth.
And while we will continue to deleverage in a measured and deliberate way such as by funding acquisitions using equity priced at attractive relative valuations and by using excess cash flow to repay debt rather than funding material cash dividends we believe our balance sheet is attractively geared for the current phase of this cycle especially when considering our significant liquidity position our low cost well-staggered single-asset mortgage structure and the fact that 14 of our 30 hotels are completely unencumbered by indebtedness.
Looking ahead we couldn't be more competent in our plan or our ability to unlock Sunstone's considerable potential in terms of earnings growth value appreciation and shareholder returns.
We will achieve this by adhering to our disciplined strategy for improving the quality and scale of our portfolio while gradually deleveraging our balance sheet and by building a positive track record one smart step at a time.
Thank you for your time today.
We greatly appreciate you interest in Sunstone and we look forward to meeting with many of you at NAREIT later this month.
With that let's open up the call to questions.
Alex please go ahead.
The first question comes from Ian Weissman from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> 2 questions.
You talked about group pace being up 8% maybe you can just give a little bit more color on how that trend relates across the portfolio? Are you seeing similar paces in all your markets? Sure Ian.
You said you had 2 questions.
One was pace? So I'll start with that.
Research Division</strong> Well I guess -- yes well and then I have a second follow-up question.
Okay sure.
Well first of all on the pace trend we are -- the 8.1% improvement in pace is primarily in occupancy.
We're about 7.1% up in rooms and about 1% growth in rate.
Marriott brand pace is up considerably for '13.
It's up about 17.5% and that's primarily in rooms.
there's a little bit of benefit in rate.
Our pace trends are offset a little bit by San Diego for example and this is a major group hotel.
You'll see years where pace is strong and pace when -- years when pace is off a little bit.
Next year is a slower year for the San Diego property.
So nice offsetting factors there with the Marriott portfolio.
Research Division</strong> I guess my question is are you seeing similar trends across all your markets? Or if you look across -- is that 8% driven by 1 or 2 markets in particular? Yes I'd say off -- Baltimore and D.C.
are very strong whereas San Diego as I was mentioning is weaker next year.
So it's certainly not a smooth trend across the portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my next question is given the position of the balance sheet today you have a lot of cash on the balance sheet the stock trades at 20-plus percent discount NAV it sounds like transactions are off the docket for now.
What is your view of potentially buying back stock there? Good question.
We'll continue to monitor valuations and as I noted in my comments and John did as well deleveraging the portfolio in a gradual measured way is a priority for the company.
That said the #1 priority is maximizing shareholder value.
So should values continue to erode significantly from the current levels that would  certainly be a tactic that we would consider.
The next question comes from David Loeb from Baird.
Research Division</strong> I think this is probably more for John but can you give us a little more color about how you got to the Sandy disruption numbers? They were by far more detailed than we heard from pretty much all other companies that had hotels with significant presence in the markets that were impacted.
So how did you come up with that? Sure and appreciate the question.
I'll start with this and maybe Marc and John can jump in with additional color.
But we're very very deeply in tune with what's happening at the property levels throughout our portfolio and we've got a full property-by-property buildup of direct impacts we've seen from the hurricane last week.
In particular we saw some significant cancellations in some major hotels.
D.C.
for example lost close to $1 million of business last week.
Specific cancellations and that businesses likely are hopefully going to rebook at some point during the quarter.
But at this point we're not fully confident that that will take place.
Baltimore had a similar impact and believe it or not Hilton Bayfront in San Diego had fairly significant cancellation that was really attributable to the weather as people couldn't travel to the meeting and the meeting group concluded that canceling that session was appropriate.
So we've done a fairly detailed buildup.
I will tell you that our hope is that we've been conservative in what we provided to the Street as an estimate for the impacts.
But it is based on a fairly detailed buildup property-by-property throughout our portfolio.
Research Division</strong> That's actually very helpful.
One of my associates wondered if you were Sandy-banking.
Sandy-banking.
Our hope is that you look back in the quarter and say "Those Sunstone guys they stand-back." We think it's prudent though at this point given everything we've seen and our buildup to provide the guidance that we have.
And again we're going to endeavor be very slated trying to build back that business throughout our portfolio.
Research Division</strong> And that helps.
Can you just talk about those cancellations if there's an offset in terms of cancellation fees or if there's any insurance that will help you with that kind of cancellation? I would not count on that.
A couple of things it's a policy typically that are weather-related events cancellation attrition is often not pursued.
More likely the hotels are going to work to rebook the business and we've already seen that in several of our properties that had major meetings canceled this week.
They're already looking to set those meetings back in later on either this year or in quarters to come.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one more different topic if you don't mind.
I appreciated information about common dividend in the release.
Can you give us some insight on how long those losses that you can carry forward will last? Do you expect that you're burning off most of that with 2012 and are you starting in 2013 with kind of normal taxable income with little to shelter it? Well the NOLs have a shelf life that extends out to 2030 I believe so.
So in terms of the expiry of the and NOLs that's not an issue.
For us it's more of when do they burn off I think that's your question.
Research Division</strong> Yes when do you use them up? We will use a portion of them this year.
We will certainly carry forward some of the NOLs into next year but our expectation is taxable income next year will likely exceed the level of NOLs that we have available to us to offset that income.
Research Division</strong> And so it will likely exceed preferred as well? So are you likely to be in a position where you have to make a decision about common dividend how to pay things like that? Correct.
Research Division</strong> And when is that likely -- decision likely to be made? Well the dividend requirement is an annual one so that decision is likely to occur later in the course of 2013.
The next question comes from Eli Hackel from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I've got 2 questions.
First you saw a large concentration in several big-box hotels and I know you said you -- and you have been very disciplined in terms of selling equity but if another large-box hotel came on the market that was in the target market of yours I would be curious if you take a look at it even where your stock is trading at now just given it couldn't make strategic sense.
And then the second question is it sounds like you're looking for a better '13 and fourth quarter.
Specifically in New York and D.C.
why would you think it accelerates especially in New York just given there's going to be a little bit more supply coming aligned in that market? Sure.
So taking your first question first on the big-box question.
We've been pretty well served as a team to-date being very disciplined around acquisitions and the deals that we've done this year that were equity funded were frankly projects that we timed I think appropriately and in retrospect we firmly believe that.
And at the same time we walked from a number of deals that we didn't feel -- what we thought that those assets were quality and hotels would have been nice assets to have in our portfolio.
We clearly made the decision that deploying equity at a value well below NAV was not going to be additive to our investors and so we've walked from them.
As we sit here today the question is given the spot value of our equity I think we'd be hard-pressed to pursue an acquisition of a big-box hotel or frankly a smaller hotel in any market using our equity.
Is there a hypothetical scenario that we can construct where our valuation is just so compelling in the strategic importance of the acquisition is so compelling that we would be inclined to issue equity to do it possibly? I would just say it's not on the top of our list in terms of what we're doing.
And John go ahead.
Yes and I would add on to that in that hypothetical which we were able to pull off for example with the Hyatt Chicago it's just getting a lot more difficult to find those bargains as private equity comes back more into the fold in the transaction market and as the debt market heats up.
I think for maybe the past couple of years you've seen REITs being the dominant buyer and given the health or given what's happening with the trends the debt markets you're really seeing more private equity coming into the fold.
Thanks John.
And then with respect to your question on New York and D.C.
trends let me shift it over to Marc.
He'll give you some specific information about our performance relative to the broader D.C.
market as well as what we're seeing in the New York market.
Sure.
Thanks Ken.
Typically and generally speaking when you have a year following a major election in Washington D.C.
it's usually a pretty solid year.
Obviously we expect to perform very well in Washington given our current pace.
As it relates to New York I believe BKF forecasts are currently running around 3.6%.
Obviously our Hilton Times Square will fall below that because of our renovation in the first quarter and that will have displacement.
DTS or Doubletree should fall in line generically with the New York City market but maybe slightly below our portfolio's overall RevPAR growth in line and due to what your comment with the extra supply coming into the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like New York is likely -- will trail your overall portfolio in 2013? That is correct.
The next question comes from Jeffrey Donnelly from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm curious you said as far as the New York City market goes.
Do you think New York could see some sort of lingering impact either to the positive or negative I guess depending on whether or not you think travelers who just stay away because there's some disrupted transportation or just maybe displaced residents occupying hotel rooms longer than just say this past week? Yes I think our general take is that the storm is a negative for New York.
We also feel that it's going to be fairly short-lived in terms of its impact but our view is glass is half-empty as it relates to New York.
LLC Research Division</strong> But nothing that mean that we'll be talking about its impact 3 weeks from now? We shouldn't be.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
And I mean -- and I'm curious Ken because you kind of touched on your remarks why is it with so many cities at or above historical peak occupancy in their CBD do you feel that we're just not seeing the ADR and ADR growth that's consistent with prior recoveries? I guess what do you think is restraining ADR? And do you think that as you set your own expectations for 2013 and 2014 does that maybe give you some pause and cause you think that maybe results could be a little lower than otherwise people might think? A couple of comments on that one.
I want to shift over to Marc as well he's very in tuned with this.
As far as the ADR growth goes a lot of what you're seeing in our business is this recovery was fueled during the early phases with the business transient recovery and group just wasn't there.
So our hotels didn't have the group based on the books to have the confidence to drive rate and compress people into these higher-rated segments.
We're seeing a lot more of that as we go forward.
And as you saw in the third quarter our RevPAR growth was pretty balanced between occupancy and rate.
But still you've got group rooms on the books that were largely put in place 1 year ago 18 months ago or longer.
And so the rate turn on the group side has not kept pace with the occupancy trend.
We think as group based continues to build and we have a bigger and bigger base of group business in the hotels you'll see better and better compression into the higher-rated segments.
We're already seeing really good compression not only in the higher-rated segments but also within the lower-rated segments where we're pushing the discount channels to much higher rates.
So the rate strategy is working it's just taking a much longer time to unfold this cycle than we've seen in past.
And again that's largely a product of the dynamic that was at play where group business just wasn't there for us early in the cycle.
Marc? Yes.
I think Ken you're very much right there.
And what I would tell you is that as we take a look at our preliminary roll-ups for 2013 you are going to see a significant move towards the higher percentage of all the growth coming from ADR versus coming from occupancy.
So you are starting to see that occur albeit a little slower.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just maybe a last question is it might be a little obtuse but the large conventional hotels tend to compete more regionally than I guess in the city.
For instance I think on a property -- or when you want to stay ahead of the competitors a convention hotel in San Diego the GM once told us that one of his top direct competitors is actually the Gaylord Texan in Dallas 1 500 miles east not necessarily a hotel down the street.
So I know it might be atypical but do you think that Marriott taking over the Gaylord brand could present some impact at the margin for your convention-focus product in San Diego New York Orleans particularly a Marriott-managed product? No.
I don't think that's going to happen.
I mean if you actually -- and having had a lot of experience with those products and having some chance to look deeply inside of them if you look at the group customers that are currently on that Gaylord property list what you would find is 85% of those customers -- or already 90% of those customers are already Marriott customers.
So I don't think there's going be any major shifting around.
If you look at the success in the occupancies given the public information of Gaylord's nature you'd find that they already run very high occupancies for group hotels of that size.
So we're not overly concerned about it at all and just think that it's part of those large ships in the sea and they're all moving around the sea at different places and the businesses just keeps moving around.
LLC Research Division</strong> Actually Marc can you just repeat the answer to an earlier question? I think in response to Ian you were talking about just which convention markets you can see being stronger or weaker in 2013 versus '12 I just missed that.
Yes I mean we certainly expect D.C.
to be stronger.
We expect our Baltimore areas to be stronger Orlando to be stronger.
We think the West Coast for group hotels will be stronger as well.
San Diego will be down slightly that kind of thing Boston is neutral to down slightly.
The next question comes from Ryan Meliker from MLV &amp; Co.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick question with regards to the guidance and kind of how trends are looking and correct me if I'm wrong but if I recall from back in August you guys reported earnings the implied guidance for 4Q was somewhere around 4% to 10% with the midpoint around 7%.
RevPAR growth and the pre-Sandy numbers here looked like it's closer to 2% to 4%.
That's -- it's a 3% midpoint that seems to be just a massive shift over 3 months since you guys last talked about how trends are looking.
Can you just give us some color in terms of what changed during that 3-month time period that's making you so much more cautious around in 4Q? Yes.
Ryan I think what I would -- the way I would characterize it as our -- we never gave fourth quarter guidance up until now.
We've always been fairly conservative on the fourth quarter end and as such we gave a very wide range leading into the quarter.
The factors that have come to play and have impacted business trends in the fourth quarter that we talked about a little bit on the call today I include uncertainty around the election.
A lot of -- and I think that unfortunately the driver and a factor in business sentiment confidence trends and so on and our expectation is once the election takes place irrespective of the outcome we'll likely to see that obviously we'll see the uncertainty go away and we're likely to see the negative impacts on confidence go way as well.
But that was something that I don't think we anticipated as clearly as it's been felt in the later periods of the third quarter and going into the fourth quarter.
So election uncertainty and I think the continued prominence of the fiscal cliff and sequestration and the implications of all that are kind of tied up in that concept.
Beyond that we're seeing positive trends as we noted on today's call in terms of the leading indicators for our industry group booking's pace is looking good negotiated accounts are looking good for 2013.
So fourth quarter I think we were well advised not to provide guidance for the fourth quarter earlier in the year and we did provide a very broad range for the fourth quarter earlier in the year and now we're -- we've brought a little bit more fine detail in the fourth quarter at this point.
But the factors with the economy the storm the election et cetera have all I think impacted the fourth quarter a little bit.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then as you talk about the uncertainty around election I apologize if I missed it earlier in the call your group pace is up pretty strong for next year.
Where have you seen that impact your trending? Is it in transient? Or is it just that groups are holding off booking and you'd actually have a higher group pace setting into 2013? That would be helpful.
So Ryan I apologize.
I'm not sure I heard the question.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
So -- and I apologize if I missed it earlier in the call.
But with regards to uncertainties surrounding the election and some of the things that are going on that it caused you to take a more conservative outlook towards 4Q where is that having the biggest impact is it group or transient? I mean group is obviously up pretty strong for 2013.
so are you seeing that more in transient than groups delaying their bookings? Got it.
No it's clearly a transient impact.
And could we see some better trends on the group side? Certainly.
I think it factors all layers of our demand but the near term impact especially affecting the fourth quarter are much going to transient side.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> So you're not really seeing groups taking a more measured approach to booking out into 2013 even though you're seeing transient do that? What I would tell you is that if you look back to last quarter our pace in '13 was up 13%.
Our pace is now up 8% still a very healthy level.
But you have seen a bit of a slowdown in group activity going into 2013.
And once again once the uncertainties are resolved we expect that that productivity in pace will pick back up.
The next question comes from Smedes Rose from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just another question on group I'm afraid.
But what percent of your group bookings are now on the books for 2013 and specifically for D.C.
because it seems like it'll be a big swing property for you next year.
What percent of your group bookings are on for next year? So for -- so one way to think of this and then we have some more specifics as to where we are for next year for the big-box hotels in terms of pace trends we're at about -- well obviously we're ahead at 8.1% in pace for next year.
For 2012 we've got 98% of our group trends on the books for this year.
The smaller-box hotels tend to not cross over the year with more than 50% of their group trends on the books and then the larger hotels come across the year at about 80%.
Marc do you want to give some specifics as to some of the larger hotels where they are now versus where we need them to be or want them to be at the end of the year? Sure no problem.
Thanks Ken.
Our D.C.
hotel has a very high number.
I mean they're going to cross over the year at approximately 85%-plus of the rooms on the books that they need to get the number.
We're thinking about our Baltimore hotel will be at approximately 65%.
Our Orlando hotel will be approximately 75% to 80% and our Hilton San Diego Bayfront hotel will be almost at 92% 93%.
So total portfolio we will cross the year very close to 70-plus percent on the books.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so with the pace of bookings moderating from the second quarter because I think you said it was up 13% so that is normal just because you have -- you're essentially filling in I guess on the group that you want to have on the books at this point? That's right Smedes.
Essentially what we're doing our operators are endeavoring to do is to book in higher-rated business which is a shorter window bookings because they had such a healthy pace on the books already.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just wanted to ask you when you do these room renovations like you talked about the one on the Hilton Times Square is that because you need to adhere to sort of raise demands from the brands? Is there anything going on on that side? Or is it just that they've -- they're just due for renovations? Good question Smedes.
The reality is what we've seen with our renovation work over the last couple of years I mean a brief note to it is that smart well-timed capital investments into our portfolio tends to generate significant returns on our invested dollars.
With the Times Square property for example you do give up some offset in terms of short-term displacement but what we expect will be significant growth post renovation.
If you've been to that hotel recently the rooms are dated.
They're what I would call vintage.
We still fill the hotel up at a very very attractive rate.
Our view though is once we've completed this renovation and we'll do it in a surgical and as quick a manner as possible we'll end up being able to charge an even better rate especially for those high-rate business transient travelers midweek.
So in each case the renovation work is kind of on-cycle renovation.
It's primarily motivated by our desires as an owner to maximize the returns in our real estate investments less motivated by brand standards.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And am I right in thinking that the Hilton Times Square -- do you have the right to change the brand coming up? Or is that something that's -- am I not remembering that correctly? We do currently have some flexibility there.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And is that something you would consider? Or are you happy with the Hilton family? We would -- we always consider our options.
There might be -- there are several different angles we're pursuing on that hotel right now.
It may ultimately be the best course to keep it as a Hilton-branded hotel and we will let you know when we would conclude that process.
The next question comes from Nikhil Bhalla from FBR.
Research Division</strong> When you look in the third quarter results it doesn't seem like you had any major impact from the shift in holidays in September.
If you can just explain that a little bit.
Well we -- I think everybody was affected a little bit by a shift in the holidays.
We didn't isolate out the various factors that were unique in the third quarter that impacted operations.
I think in general as we stated our numbers came in at the high end or above our guidance and so we knew in the holidays we are going to take place when we gave our guidance and so that was already factored for in our guidance but I wouldn't say that there was no impact by that on a year-over-year basis.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And when you look towards the next year are there any specific quarters that are tracking a little bit stronger than the others and especially when it comes to group demand? So we haven't given guidance for next year and we can certainly give a little bit of color on the group trends for next year because we have some insights into quarter-by-quarter numbers.
We're going be very careful what kind of range you hear for this call.
Marc why don't you give the...
Yes.
At this point obviously we have -- everyone knows the Super Bowl is in New Orleans and that will help our first quarter as well as some strength in D.C.
and our third quarter in general also looks to be very solid.
The next question comes from Bill Crow from Raymond James and Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Have you seen any change in the pace of group bookings related to government defense anybody that's sitting there looking at the fiscal cliff and not sure it's going on? Sure.
I think the same factors that have slowed down the booking pace a little bit across our portfolio on nongovernment businesses also affected government business.
And once the uncertainty of the election is resolved and the sequestration issue sorts itself out a little bit more you'll; probably see better trends there.
Marc would you say we've seen a more profound impact on the government side than any other aspects of group business? There's probably been a little bit more moderating would be the word I would use of bookings and it's probably been more of a moderating in the rate than necessarily in the occupancy.
Obviously as everyone knows they have frozen government rate for next year so that obviously is a piece and then there has been some moderation of the types and the amounts of groups we're seeing go up into '13 for government at this point.
We'll just have to wait and see hopefully that will change.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And any attempt on those groups parts to negotiate a way of cancellation fees just given that there is some certainty out there? Not that we're aware of no.
Bill I think the way we would characterize it is that any curtailments of bookings from the government side has taken place to-date and our view is again once the political picture sorts itself out a little bit and some of the fiscal reform sort themselves out as well you'll start to see some improved trends not a degradation in trends as it relates to government bookings.
The next question comes from Josh Attie from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I got a few questions.
First can you tell us what RevPAR growth has been quarter to-date in the portfolio? Sure we'll provide you quarter-to-date RevPAR.
Excluding D.C.
our RevPAR quarter-to-date is up 7.4% and then for the entire portfolio our RevPAR is up a little over 4.5%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And for disruption that you mentioned in group meetings business this week had any of those groups rescheduled for later in the quarter? And have you collected any cancellation fees? So we covered that a little earlier but just to reiterate in D.C.
we probably had the biggest -- we didn't probably we did have the biggest impact on group cancellations in D.C.
Our policy our operator's policy is typically when it's a major weather-related catastrophe that attrition isn't directly collected but rather a rebooking of that business takes place.
And so in D.C.
in particular they are working to rebook some of the business that was lost this week into either later this quarter or into subsequent quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And separately I think you have a -- I know it's a small number but I think you have a small debt investment in Atlanta that matures in November.
Can you tell us the status of that? And if that's an asset that would be strategic and you'd be happy owning in the portfolio.
Oh yes.
We have a very small B note investment in -- a property known as Twelve Atlantic Station.
It's in a 99-room hotel in Atlanta.
The B note sits behind $17 million of senior debt.
The note is -- we're working with the borrower at this point to kind of accomplish an amicable resolution if you will to the maturity of that loan which occurred on November 1.
And in the end no that's not an asset that we would necessarily want to own.
we certainly believed that there's value in there well into our note which we have an economic basis of 0 in.
I think our book basis is something like 200 000 so fairly small investments.
We think it will be resolved favorably and we'll give you some more color on that over the next months and quarters to come as it works itself out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you mentioned earlier in your prepared remarks that you thought the balance sheet attractively geared and I think in the Q&amp;A you said that you'd consider buying back stock if the value erodes and I know you're also committed to delevering the balance sheet my question is how should we think about deleveraging? Should we think about it as being a straight line where each quarter is a little lower than the last? Or are you willing to lever up temporarily to do things like buy back stock if the value is at a level that's attractive to you? Sure.
And I probably could've been even more direct in my comments about share repurchases.
Never say never I think is the guiding principle there.
But I think it would be close to never in today's world that we would look to buy back shares at the current level.
So we're certainly trading below NAV but we believe our other balance sheet objectives take precedence over buying back shares certainly at today's level.
If it were to drop down precipitously from here we have significant excess liquidity and we would consider that.
But I want to make sure that my comments aren't characterized as though not something that we're currently considering doing just like we're not currently considering deploying equity to acquire hotels.
That could change in a week or month but at today's levels that is not what we would consider an option.
As far as the deleveraging plan our goal is slow and steady I think is maybe a good way to characterize it.
One smart step at a time as I mentioned in my comments.
We've got a long-term financial plan that John and Bryan developed which is very detailed very specific in terms of annual milestones on deleveraging.
I'm proud to say that John and the team have done a great job of achieving those milestones to-date and we'll continue to take a measured approach to achieving our deleveraging objectives over the next 3 4 years.
It's important that we don't go too quickly on some of these things and take steps that would be shareholder-dilutive and would hurt shareholder value in order to more rapidly achieve some of our leverage objectives.
And that said if we find opportunities to "rip the bandaid off " that are shareholder-friendly we'll do so.
John you want to provide more color on that? Yes absolutely.
Josh thanks for the question.
Look never say never is right as Ken said but as we're standing here today with all the facts presented to us today share repurchase is not on the table.
We'll continue to delever the company very methodically.
As we have we've been very patient take a look at the Hilton Garden Inn Chicago.
We sat around that asset for the better portion of the year and waited till the equity got to the right price to make sure that there wasn't any dilution and I think it was a great execution on that front.
We need to remain patient.
As Ken said we'll continue to look particularly with given where the share price is now continue to look at highly levered dispositions when the timing is right.
As I said in my prepared remarks we made considerable progress towards our deleveraging goal in a shareholder friendly manner.
Well we have more room to go there.
And also just a follow-up to your first question Josh I just wanted to emphasize that the quarter-to-date numbers were through October 26.
There are no further questions at this time.
Well great.
We want to thank everybody for joining us for our call today.
And as I mentioned we look forward to seeing many of you at NAREIT.
We are hosting a reception on Monday evening and we hope to see you all there.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This concludes Sunstone Hotel Investors' Third Quarter Earnings Investor Call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Sunstone Hotel Investors Fourth Quarter and Full Year Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Wednesday February 20 2013.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to Brian Giglia Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Sunstone Hotel Investors.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Ron and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
By now you should have all received a copy of our fourth quarter's earnings release and our supplemental which we released yesterday.
If you do not yet have a copy you can access them on our website at www.sunstonehotels.com.
Before we begin this call I'd like to remind everyone that this call contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties including those described in our prospectuses 10-Qs 10-Ks and other filings with the SEC which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
We caution you to consider those factors in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
We also note that this call may contain non-GAAP financial information including EBITDA adjusted EBITDA FFO adjusted FFO and hotel EBITDA margins.
We are providing that information as a supplement to information prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
With us today on the call are Ken Cruse Chief Executive Officer; Marc Hoffman Chief Operating Officer; and John Arabia President.
After our prepared remarks the team will be available to answer your questions.
I'd like to turn the call over to Ken.
Ken please go ahead.
Thanks a lot Bryan and thank you all for joining us today on today's call.
I'll start by reviewing our fourth quarter and full year earnings then I'll touch on the progress we've made against our business plan during 2012 and so far this year.
And finally I'll provide some perspective on our 2013 guidance and objectives including our plan to put our sizable cash balance to work through acquisitions and value adding capital improvements.
Marc will then cover our operations in detail and John will discuss our balance sheet and completed capital markets transactions then Bryan will discuss our Q1 and full year 2013 guidance before I conclude our prepared remarks and we open up the call to questions.
First with respect to our earnings.
As we preannounced a few weeks ago all of our fourth quarter and full year earnings metrics meaningfully exceeded the high end of our prior guidance.
Our stronger-than-expected performance was in part due to better-than-anticipated portfolio-wide business trends following Hurricane Sandy as well as lower-than-expected renovation displacement during the fourth quarter.
As the details of our quarter are fully spelled out in our release 10-K and supplemental I'll just touch on a couple of key takeaways from our report.
For 2012 our portfolio ADR grew by $3.15 to $175.78 while our full year occupancy grew by 280 basis points to 79.2%.
Our hotels achieved full sellouts on 22.5% of the nights during 2012 which was a 20% increase in sellout nights over 2011.
Our comparable fourth quarter hotel EBITDA margins improved by 120 basis points to 30.2% and our full year hotel EBITDA margins increased by 110 basis points to 28.9%.
Our continued margin improvement implies that as the recovery continues our portfolio is well positioned to exceed prior peak EBITDA production.
In fact for 2012 our portfolio generated hotel EBITDA per key of $20 982 with a number of our hotels already exceeding prior peak EBITDA per key production.
While we continue to identify and execute on opportunities to improve the efficiency of our hotels our strong EBITDA per key is a clear indication that our continued efforts to improve hotel level profitability are producing measurable results.
Finally as it relates to our balance sheet.
We've improved our consolidated debt to total book capitalization by 13 percentage points since 2011 from 54% to just 41% at the end of 2012.
Notably we've achieved this material improvement in our credit profile while delivering north of 31% total shareholder returns in 2012 underscoring the fact that when carefully administered materially deleveraging our balance sheet can be accomplished while delivering strong shareholder returns.
As you may have made heard me say before Sunstone's goal is simple: drive significant shareholder returns by carefully improving the quality and scale of our portfolio through disciplined capital allocation while gradually deleveraging our balance sheet.
As I just stated we made good progress against this plan last year and thus far in 2013 we've continued on the path.
So far this year we've completed the sale of 4 non-core hotels and a commercial laundry facility at an attractive valuation and we've continued to reduce our financial leverage through the repayment of our exchangeable senior notes and the pending redemption of our 8% Series A preferred security which is a good segue into this year's plan.
Our 2013 business plan remains very similar to the one we established in 2012 with a strong emphasis on disciplined improvement of our portfolio quality continued property level innovation and gradual reductions of our financial leverage.
As we currently hold a considerable cash balance sourcing and executing high-quality hotel acquisitions is an important near-term objective.
As noted in our press release we intend to invest between $250 million and $300 million of our excess free cash into high-quality hotel acquisitions.
We are currently screening a number of acquisition targets based on strategic fit upside opportunities and of course transaction structure and pricing.
That said I do want to make it clear that we will not sacrifice deal quality in favor of speed of execution.
Also with respect to our continuing goal to improve our portfolio quality currently we have several renovation and repositioning projects underway.
We are investing approximately $15 million into the Hilton Times Square to fully renovate all 460 guestrooms bathrooms and corridors creating a rich and appealing new rooms product to further enhance the business trends and competitiveness of this hotel.
We are also currently investing approximately $25 million on the previously announced complete repositioning of our 417-room Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile.
This project encompasses every facet of the hotel all public spaces food and beverage venues meeting rooms guestrooms and bathrooms.
The repositioning is designed to elevate the hotel to a sophisticated destination catering to high-rated business transient and group travelers.
We expect to complete this project in the third quarter of this year.
Our other significant 2013 repositionings include a $12 million renovation of all 403 guestrooms restaurant recreational facilities and certain public spaces at the Hyatt Regency Newport Beach.
We are also currently investing approximately $12 million to renovate all 347 guestrooms and public spaces at the Renaissance Westchester and we are underway with a full redevelopment of the outdoor and recreational spaces at our Hilton San Diego Bayfront hotel which will improve the hotels competitiveness with respect to both high-end groups and leisure travelers.
Given the attractive long-term demands projections we have also accelerated rooms renovations at our Renaissance Long Beach and our Renaissance Orlando.
Both of these renovations will begin during the fourth quarter of 2013.
Just as we've seen with our other recent renovations our 2013 projects will result in some near-term revenue displacement followed by what we expect will be ongoing revenue outperformance once the renovation work is completed.
As noted in our guidance we expect our first quarter results to be impacted by approximately $6 million to $7 million of renovation displacement and we expect our full year 2012 will be impacted by approximately $8 million to $10 million of renovation-related displacement.
For example the Hilton Times Square runs at approximately 98% occupancy on a full year basis so it's impossible to conduct a renovation of this premier asset without displacing a fair amount of demand.
On the flip side once the work is complete we expect to see material outperformance from our renovated properties.
For example our recently renovated 807-room Renaissance Washington D.C.
is already driving material outperformance in 2013 as evidenced by the hotels 450 basis point improvement in STR index year-to-date and its 21% increase in group pace for 2013.
We are seeing similar strength among the various hotels we renovated in 2011 and 2012.
We realize that between our current renovations and our pending capital deployment we've provided a fairly complicated guidance package for 2013.
We have a lot of positive moving parts.
Bryan will go through the specifics in a moment but before that I want to make a few key points clear.
First our business is strong.
In 2013 we expect our core hotels to exhibit continued growth and top line performance and bottom line profitability and asset values.
Second as previously indicated our current renovation program will result in a very compelling trade-off between near-term displacement and post-renovation outperformance.
And finally we believe our significant investment capacity represents upwards of $18 million to $23 million of incremental adjusted EBITDA and between $0.11 and $0.15 of incremental FFO per share on a full year pro forma basis.
This built-in EBITDA and FFO potential is not reflected in today's guidance although the underlying common shares are.
I'll spend a minute now on the ongoing strength of the lodging recovery.
In short we're seeing a lot of  green lights associated with industry fundamentals and our portfolio.
Given our industry's historic low supply trends strengthening demand in both group and high rated business transient segments and attractive capital costs we are confident that the lodging recovery is not only intact but that the risks are firmly weighted toward multiple years of continued operations growth characterized by continued moderate improvements in the broader economy strong hotel level pricing power and meaningful upside in both earnings and asset values.
Many of our hotels are now at or above prior peak occupancy and margin levels.
As evidenced by the $20 982 of the hotel EBITDA per key our portfolio generated in 2012 we have improved the quality and efficiency of our hotels to the point where same-store profitability should meaningfully exceed prior peak levels as the recovery continues.
And we are by no means finished with our efforts to improve the profitability of our assets.
For example as Marc Hoffman will discuss in a moment we are implementing a broad range of efficiency measures and property level innovations including a portfolio-wide energy improvement program which should further reduce cost per occupied room across our entire portfolio.
And with that I'll now turn the call over to Marc to discuss our portfolio operations in greater detail.
Thank you Ken and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
I will review our portfolio's fourth quarter and full year operating performance in greater detail and provide a brief recap of our capital investments.
All hotel information discussed today unless otherwise noted is for our 26 hotel portfolio which includes on a pro forma basis all 2012 acquisitions including the Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile the Hilton Garden in Chicago Downtown Magnificent Mile and excludes the 4 hotels from the Rochester portfolio that we recently sold.
For the fourth quarter our pro forma comparable RevPAR was up 3.6% to $137.02 with a 2.3% growth in ADR and a 90 basis point improvement in occupancy.
As Ken noted in the fourth quarter our RevPAR was impacted by the completion of the rooms renovation at the Washington DC Renaissance and the beginning stages of the complete reinvention of our Hyatt Regency Newport Beach.
To help understand the impact of these renovations on our portfolio excluding these hotels RevPAR for the fourth quarter would have been up 5.2% driven by a 2.6% increase in occupancy and a 2.5% increase in ADR.
During the fourth quarter 5 of our hotels generated double-digit RevPAR growth including our JW Marriott New Orleans and our Fairmont Newport Beach.
From a total room segmentation standpoint in Q4 group revenues were up slightly at 1% driven by a 2% increase in ADR and a slight decrease in group rooms.
Hotels that saw increases in ADR include the JW Marriott New Orleans Marriott Long Wharf Chicago Embassy Suites to name a few.
Our group revenue for the fourth quarter was impacted by approximately $1 million from Hurricane Sandy at the Renaissance Washington D.C.
and the Renaissance Baltimore.
Q4 transient only room revenue increased 4.4% to last year with a 3% increase in ADR.
During the fourth quarter our 26 hotel portfolio had 489 sellout nights or 20.7% of the Q4 room nights.
This is an improvement over the 459 sellout nights we achieved during the fourth quarter of 2011.
This is the highest number of sellouts in 5 years for Q4 and our seventh consecutive quarter of sellout night increases.
As our hotels have established better base business through group contract our operators have focused on increasing transient revenue through rates with mix shifting and compression.
In Q4 our revenues from premium demand sources were up 6.3% driven significantly by an 8.8% growth in the premium occupancy segment.
We have continued to be more aggressive on both shifting out lower rated channels particularly the discount channels as well as taking higher rated business from these channels.
We saw a 3.5% increase in ADR and a 2.6% decrease in occupancy in our discount business in the fourth quarter.
For full year our pro forma comparable portfolio RevPAR was up 5.6% to $139.22 which was negatively impacted 60 basis points of revenue displacement.
For 2012 7 of our hotels generated double-digit RevPAR growth including our Courtyard LAX JW Marriott New Orleans and Marriott Long Wharf again to name a few.
From a total room segmentation standpoint in 2012 group revenues were up 4.4% driven by a 4.4% increase in occupancy and flat ADR.
Full year transient only room revenues increased 6.7% to last year with a 3.6% increase in ADR.
Our full year transient room revenue benefited from the strength at our Hilton Times Square Marriott Long Wharf which was offset by weakness in our Renaissance Washington D.C.
Overall for full year 2012 our portfolio had a 20% increase in sellout nights as compared to 2011.
This was the fourth consecutive year of sellout room nights growth.
22.5% of room nights were sellouts during 2012 which is our peak for the 26 hotel portfolio.
As we have stated over the last few quarters our operations have focused on increasing transient revenue through aggressive revenue management mix changes.
For full year 2012 we saw a 7.8% increase in our premium demand business driven by a 6.2% increase in premium occupancy.
Full year 2012 our 26 hotel comparable portfolio is down 2.3% in group production driven by 20% decrease in production at the Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
The Hilton Bayfront was materially impacted by a decrease in citywide bookings related to the reorganization within the CVB and the CVB sales department.
With the completion of the city's reorganization our expectations are that the citywide contracts that were delayed during 2012 will be closed in the coming quarters.
Additionally the hotel has had such strong bookings over the last 3 years.
And with the current positive status of 2014 through 2016's group room nights pace the hotel is correctly more focused on growing ADR for future years and being more selective as they should be.
We continue to seek opportunities to improve the profitability of our portfolio.
To this end energy is a big focus.
During 2012 we completed a comprehensive portfolio-wide energy study using 2 outside consultant companies and have identified numerous opportunities to improve efficiencies and decreased cost at several hotels.
Some of those items were initiated in 2012 helping to drive a 9.2% decrease in our energy cost per occupied room.
These items include installation of in-room intelligent heating and cooling systems variable frequency drives throughout the building's mechanical electrical and plumbing total lighting retrofits chiller maximizations and laundry outsourcing to name a few.
Over the last several years we have redefined hotel F&amp;B concepts throughout our portfolio which has decreased the cost per occupied room by approximately 17% since prior peak.
Much of this decrease is due to the implementation of our gastro-bar concepts and great rooms versus stand-alone restaurants in numerous of our hotels.
Looking forward to 2013 our current 2013 group pace is plus 4.7% driven by 1.8% growth in rooms and a 2.9% growth in rate.
With that I'll turn the call over to John.
John go ahead.
Thank you Marc.
Good morning everyone.
Today I'll give you an overview of several topics including first our liquidity and access to capital; second our leverage profile; and third the impact of recently completed finance transactions on our overall business plan.
With respect to liquidity Sunstone ended the fourth quarter with approximately $236 million of cash including $78 million of restricted cash.
In addition to our strong cash position we have an undrawn $150 million line of credit in 11 unencumbered hotels.
During 2012 these unencumbered assets collectively generated approximately $56 million of EBITDA.
Adjusting for the funds received from both the Rochester sale and our recently completed common equity offering and subtracting our debt repayments and the pending Series A preferred redemption our pro forma total cash position at the yearend was approximately $420 million including again approximately $78 million of restricted cash.
As Ken noted earlier we have cash investment capacity of between $250 million and $300 million which we endeavor to invest into high-quality hotel acquisitions this year.
At the end of the year excluding our January 2013 debt repayments Sunstone had $1.31 billion of consolidated debt which includes 100% of the $235 million mortgage secured by the Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
Adjusting for the debt attributed to our minority partners in this asset our pro rata debt balance was currently $1.25 billion which consists entirely of low staggered non-crossed mortgage debt.
Our debt has a weighted average term to maturity of 4.7 years and has an average interest rate including the effects of our interest rate derivative agreements of just under 5%.
Our variable rate debt as a percentage of total debt stands at 32% and we have no debt maturities through early 2015.
During 2012 we continue to make considerable progress towards our goal of reducing leverage in a methodical and shareholder-friendly manner.
As a result of 2 equity-funded acquisitions the disposition of 4 highly levered hotels and the repayment for amortization of mortgage debt our ratio of net debt and preferred to trailing EBITDA declined during the year to 6.5x before taking into consideration those transactions completed in '13.
Adjusting for our 2013 transactions including the Rochester asset sale the exchangeable note repayment and the Series A preferred redemption our pro forma 2000 debt and preferred to EBITDA ratio would be approximately 5.6x.
This pro forma leverage ratio of 5.6x stands in stark contrast to the nearly 9x debt and preferred to trailing EBITDA witnessed in 2011 has benefited from the elimination of approximately $550 million of debt and preferred securities over the past 7 quarters and has also benefited from the expansion of our asset base.
While we continue to methodically reduce our financial leverage over time the progress made to date on our balance sheet initiatives provides us with greater financial flexibility allows us to contemplate certain acquisitions that may have in place debt and moves us much closer to being in a position to reinstate a well-supported and stable cash dividend in the foreseeable future.
Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to our new CFO Bryan Giglia to review our earnings guidance.
Bryan please go ahead.
Thank you John.
A full reconciliation of our current guidance can be found on pages 16 to 18 of our supplemental as well as in our earnings release.
We expect first quarter 2013 RevPAR to grow 2% to 3% which includes 475 to 500 basis points of renovation disruption primarily from the Hilton Times Square and the Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile.
We expect first quarter adjusted EBITDA to come in between $36 million and $38 million and we expect first quarter adjusted FFO per diluted share to be between $0.07 and $0.09.
Our full year 2013 adjusted EBITDA guidance ranges from $224 million to $236 million and our full year adjusted FFO per diluted share ranges from $0.84 to $0.92.
It is important to note that our 2013 guidance does not include the effect of the planned investment of our significant excess cash balance.
We have approximately $250 million to $300 million of investable cash which we expect to deploy this year.
In order to help investors evaluate the hypothetical future earnings impact we have included in our assumptions to our guidance a range of adjusted EBITDA we would expect potential 2013 acquisitions to produce.
To reiterate while at this time we cannot make assurances as to the specific impact of future hotel investments if we assume the potential future acquisitions are completed at current market multiples between 13x and 14x stabilized EBITDA and assuming these such acquisitions are unencumbered of debt the deployment of our investable cash will generate between $18 million and $23 million of additional adjusted EBITDA and approximately $0.11 to $0.15 of additional adjusted FFO per diluted share on a full year pro forma basis.
Depending on the timing of our acquisitions and the actual acquisition multiples our actual reported 2013 results will only include our ownership period and will not include the pro forma amounts I just noted.
We will provide all metrics of future acquisitions if any when we announce the deal.
Again these amounts are not included in our $0.84 to $0.92 of adjusted FFO per diluted share guidance or our $224 million to $236 million adjusted EBITDA guidance.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Ken to wrap up our prepared remarks.
Thank you very much Bryan.
I have just a few closing remarks before opening the call up to questions.
As I noted in my opening remarks we made decent progress over the last 18 months in terms of improving portfolio quality and reducing leverage while generating significant total shareholder returns.
Sunstone is a far different and frankly a far better company today than it was 2 years ago in large part because the team has executed well on many aspects of our business plan.
As part of the continued development of our leadership team it gives me great pleasure to announce a number of highly deserved promotions.
First John Arabia was promoted to President.
John joined us nearly 2 years ago and in that time he's added considerable value to many of Sunstone's core discipline.
John has been instrumental in developing and implementing our long-term finance plan which helped drive material improvements in our balance sheet.
Most importantly these balance sheet improvements have been executed in ways that were consistently beneficial to our shareholders.
As President John will continue to oversee Sunstone's finance Investor Relations and strategic planning functions and he will be responsible for a broad range of additional value adding initiatives and transactions.
I should note that Marc Hoffman will continue his exceptional leadership of all aspects of our operations division which includes asset management and design and construction and both John and Marc will continue to report directly to me.
Also as John noted Bryan Giglia was promoted to Chief Financial Officer.
You all know Bryan and I've had the pleasure of working with him for the past 8 years.
Bryan has a great command of all of our finance-related functions and is indefatigable in his work ethic.
As CFO Bryan will directly oversee all facets of Sunstone's corporate finance accounting and tax functions.
Additionally Robert Springer was promoted to Chief Investment Officer.
Robert joined the team in May of 2011 and has made huge improvements to our acquisitions and dispositions disciplined by adding additional decision-support tools enhancing our screening techniques and by improving the interdepartmental communications and deal review process.
Lindsay Monge has been promoted to Chief Administrative's Officer Secretary and Treasurer.
Lindsay ably runs a number of disciplines including treasury risk management human resources and Information Technology and is a critical member of our senior leadership team.
And finally David Sloan was promoted to SVP and General Counsel.
While David capably runs all aspects of Sunstone's legal function in my opinion he's far more than a corporate attorney.
David possesses a practical business judgment which has often helped to facilitate the accomplishment of our business objectives while minimizing corporate risk.
Each of these senior leadership promotions is very well deserved and these announcements largely cement the leadership structure of the new Sunstone.
Without diminishing the significance of these promotions I would like to recognize the strong and continued execution of the entire Sunstone team.
I realize I may be slightly biased but I truly believe that we have the deepest and most talented team in the business.
While we've made pretty good progress over the past year or so we are by no means done and we recognize that we as a team have considerable work ahead of us in order to accomplish our long-term corporate goals.
And now more than ever sound judgment discipline and quantitative rigor must underlie all of our business decisions.
To reiterate John's comments while we will continue to deleverage in a measured and deliberate way such as by funding acquisitions using equity price at attractive relative valuations and by using excess cash flow to repay debt.
We believe that our balance sheet is approaching the point where a recurring stable cash dividend will be supported.
We do at this point believe the introduction of a well supported recurring cash dividend in 2014 is a realistic scenario.
With that as a backdrop we couldn't be more confident in our plan or our ability to unlock Sunstone's full potential in terms of earnings growth and shareholder returns.
Thank you for listening today.
And with that let's open up the call to questions.
Ron please go ahead.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Bill Crow from Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Lots of work over the past couple of years.
A couple of questions here.
With the preferred redemptions it seems like that would put pressure on your common dividend.
And I guess why wait until '14 to announce some sort of dividend or to reinstate given where the balance sheet is today? Sure.
Bill as far as the preferred redemption you're exactly right.
Paying off the preferred which has an 8% coupon certainly does increase the corporate cash flow reduces our balance sheet leverage and puts the company as both John and I stated much much closer to reinstituting a common dividend.
As we've stated many times in the past as a capital intensive business with continuing credit objectives in front of us retaining cash flow and utilizing a significant portion of our generated cash flow toward continuing to de-risk the company and improve our -- the quality and skill of our portfolio while reducing leverage remain objectives -- key objectives for the company.
We do believe that reinstituting a well supported very stable cash common dividend is a critical objective.
Given where we are in 2013 in terms of taxable income production and what's going to progress against our corporate credit objectives we believe that 2014 is probably the right time frame to reintroduced the cash dividend although depending on how things work in 2013 in terms of operations and other transactions that reinstitution of the common dividend could occur sooner.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Let me go a different direction here you have a reasonably sizable part of your portfolio in -- sitting in the path of some new supply.
We know New York is going to face significant supply next year Washington DC has the big convention center and 8 or 9 hotel -- 8 or 9 other properties under development.
And then Chicago was just -- it was just announced they're going to develop a new like convention center hotel.
Does that impact your desire to increase your portfolios in those markets or would you be looking elsewhere to acquire assets? Well Bill supply is certainly one consideration that we analyze when we look at any investment targets.
I would tell you just going down the list we really like the Manhattan market you're absolutely right that there will be significant supply introductions over the next few years.
The greater Manhattan MSA is likely to release roughly 17 000 additional keys or 21% of existing supply over the next 3 or 4 years and Times Square which is really where we're concentrated we'll also see supply introductions roughly to 4 900 rooms through 2015.
So we certainly pay attention to that.
New York but just not to isolate one market but I want to use that as an example.
New York has realized a significant amount of supply over the last 20 years and has done a phenomenal job as a market of absorbing and in fact outperforming that supply.
So we don't think that the new supply introductions represent a long term degradation in the quality of that market or the attractiveness of that market.
That said any acquisitions in the Manhattan market would certainly have to factor for near-term impacts of new supply.
As far as Chicago we like the long-term characteristics for that market as well.
[indiscernible] property will likely help to drive additional demand in that market.
You're seeing a similar situation in Washington D.C.
where the Marriott Marquis is coming on board in a couple of years which will frankly improve the competitiveness of the D.C.
market in terms of a citywide venue.
So certainly supply trends across the U.S.
are very muted.
1.4% is the current PTF projection I think for supply this year that doesn't uptick meaningfully over the next couple of years across the board but you're right certain markets do see new supply and we have to factor for that new supply in our investment decisions and we certainly do.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I got one final question.
You devoted some time talking about the Hilton San Diego Bayfront and your strategy there.
There's a ground lease that has a bump coming up.
Is that -- could you just kind of give me the details on -- give us the details on that? Sure.
So the Hilton San Diego that we own has 790 keys it is subject to a port authority ground lease.
The remaining term is 59 years.
The lease is a little bit unique in that it provides for an annual rent credit equal to 60% of the annual ground rent due and this credit exists through the earlier of the day that the lessee has achieved total combined cumulative rent credits of $46.5 million or December 31 2016.
As we've said on prior calls we believe that the credit will run through 2016.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no material impact until after that date? Correct.
Your next question comes from Joshua Attie from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Can you tell us does the EBITDA guidance that you gave include $3 million of dividend income on the preferred stock that you took back in the Rochester sale? Josh that's correct.
The EBITDA guidance does include that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on this paper you effectively provided seller financing for 10% to 15% of the purchase price.
Can you tell us a little bit about the security? Do you have protection on how much debt can be put ahead of you in the capital stack? And also how do you expect to monetize this paper over time and get back to $25 million? Sure.
We'll give you some specifics there.
So the Rochester sale which we concluded at a 6.9% cap rate for the assets was obviously an attractive transaction for the company.
The buyer who's asked to remain anonymous at this point put in roughly $53 million of equity into the transaction and then -- and put in place $145 million of mortgage in mezzanine financing.
We bridged the gap with the $25 million preferred investment.
The preferred investment has an 11% coupon and that 11% coupon is superior to any distributions that would come out to the common equity.
The owner of the common equity cannot take cash out of this system in terms of a refi cash out proceeds from a refi without redeeming the preferred and so there we have plenty of restrictions in terms of the ability to put additional encumbrances in front of the preferred.
It's actually pretty attractive piece of paper.
We've been approached by 1 or 2 third parties in terms of buying the paper.
At this point we like the yield and we like the position in the assets.
Research Division</strong> Thanks.
And on the common dividend it sounds like you'll use your remaining NOLs this year to offset taxable income do you expect to be required to have a common distribution in 2014.
That is the direction that we're headed.
Anything can happen between now and 2014.
But -- and frankly we haven't finalized our taxable distributions projections for 2013.
There are a number of moving parts as we noted on the call so any number of items may push that distributable income up or frankly down during 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess one more question on acquisitions.
I know you've been focused on buying assets below your current trading multiple which is probably around 13x today.
Are you seeing deals in the pipeline that fit this criteria? And if not would you consider at all distributing the Rochester gain to shareholders through a special dividend? Josh I really appreciate you asking that question.
We've got a very robust pool of targets that we're currently underwriting and that pool of targets has been fairly dynamic.
As quickly as we put assets on the list we pull them back off as I said on the call.
Discipline and rigor around our underwriting decisions and doing the right deal not the most timely deal is critical for us.
And so our view at this point is that while we do have $145 million that is in an exchange facility at this point if we don't find the right deals we are certainly not going to force a transaction in order to preserve that to 1031 like-kind exchange.
The reality is just as we did with the Century Plaza there are a number of different ways we can address significant gains on sale transactions outside of a 1031 and we would make a judgment at the end of the year as to whether we would do a significant distribution out to the shareholders or some other form of satisfaction of the taxable gain on the Rochester portfolio.
At this point Plan A is certainly to execute the 1031.
Research Division</strong> Yes I think you mentioned in your prepared remarks that with respect to acquisitions that you were evaluating things like structure should we expect you to do 100% owned acquisition? Or are you also looking at JV structures? Our preferred approach Josh would be to acquire urban institutional grade branded assets with 400 keys or greater RevPAR north of $150 million EBITDA north of $10 million be simple and 100% ownership by Sunstone.
Those are kind of our full body -- that's the full body of our  screening criteria.
I would tell you very few acquisitions meet 100% of this screening criteria.
So you could see us evaluate a broad range of opportunities but our preference would strongly be on the simple institutional grade assets that have no debt in place and that are wholly owned by the company.
Your next question comes from Ryan Meliker from MLV &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions that I had.
First one I guess a little bit of a bookkeeping item.
Looks like the net other assets increased materially in the fourth quarter to the tune of about I think that's $230 million.
Any color on what's going on there? Let's see the net other assets during the fourth quarter increased for a couple of reasons.
We have a number of hotels that were earmarked for sale so those were disco ops.
And so those end up in the other -- that was the Rochester portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's probably a majority of it than.
Just wasn't sure there and then the second question I have with all the promotions going on should we expect G&amp;A to move up materially in 2013? I'm also glad you asked that question.
While I believe we have the deepest and most talented team in the space we also have the -- one of the cheapest teams in the space.
So G&amp;A as we indicated in our guidance this year will be between I think $20 million and $21 million and that's not a material change from prior year levels.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I'll -- now that sounds pretty good.
And then just one more question I had was I don't know what type of color you could provide without any giving specifics because I'm sure you can't.
Are you close to being able to put to work the capital that you've got on your balance sheet? That would obviously increase your NOI and FFO.
Or would you think that might be more of a back half of the year type scenario? Our efforts and our focus is on putting that capital to work as efficiently and effectively as possible.
On today's call I can't give you any specifics on timing but our focus isn't getting that capital put to work quickly.
We do see a number of attractive targets that do fit our criteria so stay tuned.
Your next question comes from David Loeb from Baird.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple.
Just to circle back on the acquisition question again.
Could you talk about the markets that you're targeting? And then also you already have a bunch of hotels that are very much group dependent but looking for 400 keys or larger it sounds like you're really looking for more group intensive hotels.
What do you -- is it fair that you very much like the group business? And what do you think the outlook is for that given your exposure? Well first of all David we do like diversity among our portfolio up in terms of the geography as well as asset types.
So as you've seen over the last couple of years we have acquired a couple of hotels that were more group-centric than the typical business transient assets that we have in our portfolio.
That said as I mentioned a minute ago our screening criteria what like 400 keys and up.
Our average hotel right now is roughly 450 keys and our business base is roughly 32% group with the rest being business transient and so we have a significant percentage of our business in the hotels that we currently own is business transient.
I would tell you most of the targets that we're looking at our roughly fitting within that mix roughly 30% group and somewhere in the 70% business transient range.
We're good at those hotels we think.
Marc and his team are very effective at the business transient model Marc and several of the asset managers also have deep experiences that relates to group hotels.
So we think we can do both well.
I will tell you we haven't isolated -- our focus on one type versus another but I think if I were to have confidence with things I'd tell you we probably do more acquisitions that are business transient oriented than group oriented.
Research Division</strong> And how about the markets? As far as the markets we are looking at core gateway markets.
Now core gateway markets by our definition is probably a little different from others.
We own an asset in New Orleans it's performing extremely well.
And we like the idea building out a nucleus of assets within the markets where we already own hotels so I could see us certainly moving into bigger exposures within whether it's the Boston or Washington D.C.
market or even Manhattan.
Again all subject to underwriting standards that do take into account the supply trends in that particular market.
So we're looking at a broad group of market it's probably a little bit beyond the top 25.
So as I mentioned before because one of our screening criteria is high RevPAR we think that's a great indicator of quality it's not the only indicator but it's a good one.
You're not going to find a $150 RevPAR hotel in most of the secondary and tertiary markets so hence we continue to focus our efforts on those main Gateway markets.
Research Division</strong> And one for your new CFO.
Bryan can you talk a little bit about your asset type preferred as you look at the next round of capital whenever that is? Would you consider now that you're shrinking your preferred base would you consider issuing preferred as opposed to common or clearly I know you want to delever so likely less -- less likely to be debt? The -- we just redeemed our -- or in the process of redeeming our Series A so obviously the higher priced and that was an above market preferred.
Our intention was to take that out.
And looking long term we'll continue to focus on preparing the balance sheet and getting us to a position to hit our long-term leverage goals.
Going forward depending on pricing at that time and when we look at adding additional debt capital and that's how we view preferred depending on the pricing and the difference between that and mortgage debt we would evaluated it at that time.
But right now there's really no intention to add additional preferred where we sit today.
Your next question comes from Rich Hightower from  ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I don't know if you listened in Marriott's call this morning but a lot of time was spent talking about the sequestration in Washington and then more broadly speaking how that might impact lodging demand.
And I know that your guidance except for the renovation displacement is actually pretty solid and I'm wondering if you guys have seen any weakness related to the sequestration and general lack of cooperation amongst our politicians.
If that's showing up in demand at your hotels yet? Well Rich I think in general the backdrop over the last 2 years has been unfortunately impacted by whether it's called sequestration or macroeconomic risks or other forms of extrinsic economic concerns.
Business trends have been relatively muted over the last few years as a result of that.
If you look at industry fundamentals and where we are in the cyclical recovery prior cycles would imply that you'd see much much stronger trends in terms of traveler's willingness to pay higher rates.
So we haven't factored sequestration specifically into the guidance that we've provided this year.
I think more generically we've just factored for an overall economic environment that is characterized by uncertainty and somewhat muted travel trends as a result.
It's not necessarily an unhealthy dynamic.
Again as we said before the idea of slow and steady growth in the context of very low interest rates and low supply trends across our industry probably bodes for a very healthy prolonged and sustained recovery in our industry.
So long-winded answer but we don't see the sequestration as necessarily changing the landscape in the 2013 to a point that's any different from what we saw in '12 or '11 which in both cases we have decent single-digit growth on the top line.
Research Division</strong> Secondly on the acquisition side we keep hearing that private equity is becoming more aggressive and obviously the CMBS market continues to get better by the day.
Are you seeing the REITs generally? And maybe in your own experience being priced out of some of these acquisitions that may have been completed let's say a year ago because of the additional competition? So far we've seen private equity participate in the I'd say the lower quality assets in fact some of the deals that we sold last year.
I'm sorry the private equity some of the deals that we sold to private equity last year were double-digit RevPAR secondary tertiary markets that were relatively higher risk but also came with some fairly high LTV stapled financing.
I think you can still see the risk appetite for private equity focused on those types of assets rather than the core city center stabilized or marginal value add assets that we tend a focus in on.
That said I wouldn't be surprised at all as the CMBS market continues to improve and as capital pools from the private equity base has continued to increase but we'll see more activity and more traffic in the areas that we want to invest in with the private equity guys.
But today I wouldn't call it a significant change in the competitive landscape.
Your next question comes from Lukas Hartwich from Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Ken are there any assets or markets left in the portfolio that you consider non-core? Yes.
If you look at our supplemental there are a couple you know between 2 and 4 assets within our portfolio that generate RevPAR fairly consistently that's below where we would like to see our portfolio.
On a branded asset if you're generating double-digit RevPAR it's very difficult to drive significant cash flows given that you have to maintain the very same brand standards that you would if that asset were generating $200 of RevPAR.
So we tend to look at those assets especially if they are markets that are mature or secondary tertiary markets we tend to look at those assets as candidates.
We don't have anything on our announcement today in terms of assets to be sold but over the next couple of years there's a fairly limited number of hotels within our portfolio that would likely be sale candidates between 2 and 4.
There are no further questions at this time.
Please continue.
Great.
Thank you very much.
We appreciate everyone's time today and your interest in Sunstone and we look forward to speaking with you in the next couple of weeks.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Q1 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I'd like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today Tuesday May 7 2013 at 9:00 a.m.
Pacific Standard Time.
I'll now turn the presentation over to Bryan Giglia.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
By now you should have all received a copy of our first quarter's earnings release and our supplemental which we released yesterday.
If you do not yet have a copy you can access them on our website at www.sunstonehotels.com.
Before we begin this call I'd like to remind everyone that this call contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties including those described in our prospectuses 10-Qs 10-Ks and other filings with the SEC which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
We caution you to consider those factors in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
We also note that this call may contain non-GAAP financial information including EBITDA adjusted EBITDA FFO adjusted FFO and hotel EBITDA margins.
We are providing that information as a supplement to information prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
With us on the call today are Ken Cruse Chief Executive Officer; and John Arabia President.
After our remarks the team will be available to answer your questions.
Before I turn the call over to Ken I'd like to remind everyone that with the beginning of this year we adopted calendar quarter reporting periods for our 10 Marriott-managed hotels similar to the rest of our portfolio which also reports on a calendar basis.
Last year reporting for our Marriott-managed hotels was based on a 13-period fiscal calendar.
As a result of this calendar shift our revenues net income adjusted EBITDA and adjusted FFO for Q1 2013 include 9 additional days of operations for our Marriott-managed hotels as compared with Q1 2012.
With that I'd like to now turn the call over to Ken.
Ken please go ahead.
Thanks Bryan and thank you all for joining us today.
On today's call I'll start by reviewing our Q1 earnings and the 3 transactions we announced today.
I'll then give a status update on our 2013 capital expenditure program and I'll wrap up by reviewing our perspective on industry fundamentals.
Our operations discussion on today's call will be handled by John as Marc Hoffman our COO is currently out of the office on a brief medical leave.
Following John's discussion Bryan will review our Q2 and updated full year 2013 guidance before I conclude our prepared remarks and open up the call to questions.
First I'd like to frame today's discussion by noting that as expected major renovations at 4 of our hotels skewed our operating metrics in the first quarter.
The 4 hotels under renovation during the quarter were the Hilton Times Square where we have recently completed a full rooms renovation; and the Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile; the Hyatt Regency Newport Beach; and the Renaissance Westchester in each case where we are wrapping up full hotel repositioning programs.
We're very pleased with the results of these renovations which we believe will meaningfully enhance the competitive positioning of these hotels.
We'll try to isolate the short-term effect of these renovations as we discuss our Q1 operations in order to give you a better picture of our portfolio's core operating fundamentals.
As the details of our quarter are thoroughly spelled out in the materials we released last night I'll just touch on a few key takeaways from our Q1 report.
Our first quarter RevPAR finished at the lower end of our guidance while our adjusted EBITDA adjusted FFO and adjusted FFO per diluted share all came in at or above the high end of our guidance range.
Our portfolio ADR grew by $6.55 in the quarter to $168.25 while our Q1 occupancy declined by 140 basis points to 74.2%.
The decline in occupancy is attributable to renovation displacement.
Excluding the 4 hotels under renovation our portfolio occupancy grew by 230 basis points to 77.2% in the quarter which is the highest first quarter occupancy level for our portfolio.
Our comparable first quarter hotel EBITDA margins improved by 10 basis points to 23.3%.
Here again our margin performance was materially affected by renovations.
Excluding the 4 hotels under renovation hotel EBITDA margins improved by 160 basis points in Q1.
As our operators were affected it turns any incremental revenues into bottom line profits.
Also as John will discuss we're benefiting from several ongoing asset management initiatives such as laundry outsourcing and our portfolio-wide energy efficiency program which helped to reduce our energy cost per occupied room by roughly 3.4% in the first quarter.
Moving on to transactions.
Today we announced a series of deals which will effectively complete our tax-efficient recycling of the proceeds we realized from the sale of our Rochester portfolio earlier in the year.
Specifically first earlier in the month we acquired the 250-key Hilton New Orleans St.
Charles.
Second we're currently in the process of acquiring the 1 053-key Boston Park Plaza hotel which we expect will close later in the second quarter or early in the third quarter.
And finally we announced the redemption of the entire $100 million balance of our 6.45% Series C convertible securities as an offset to our planned assumption of the $119 million mortgage secured by the Boston Park Plaza.
This mortgage bears an interest rate of 4.4%.
We expect this redemption to close at the end of the month.
Collectively these transactions are consistent with our stated strategy of improving our portfolio quality and scale while gradually reducing our leverage.
Our weighted average purchase multiple on the 2 hotels is 12.3x 2013 projected EBITDA which compares favorably to the 12.8x multiple we realized on the sale of non-core hotels in Rochester earlier this year.
Moreover the combined transactions will increase our hotel concentrations in 2 high-growth major markets and will reduce our overall leverage and interest expense.
I'll spend a minute now going over the details of each deal and the combined effect of these transactions.
First we acquired a fee simple interest in a 250-room Hilton New Orleans St.
Charles through an off-market deal for a gross purchase price of $59 million or approximately $237 000 per key.
The gross purchase price equates to an 11.4x multiple on 2013 forecasted hotel adjusted EBITDA of $5.2 million and a 7.9% capitalization rate on 2013 forecasted hotel net operating income.
The Hilton St.
Charles is located in the heart of downtown New Orleans near our JW Marriott New Orleans and the Convention Center and the hotel is sandwiched between the 2 largest class-A office buildings in downtown New Orleans and is just a couple of blocks away from the French Quarter.
Based on our experience in this high-growth market we see an opportunity to increase the Hilton's ADR through certain changes in the service model and by investing a modest amount of capital to complete a rooms renovation in 2014.
We estimate our capital investment in the hotel will total approximately $4 million and we believe the renovation accompanied again with certain service-level improvements will better position this hotel to capture a greater share of the market's high-rated transient demand.
We employed a similar investment strategy with our JW Marriott New Orleans which has generated strong returns from -- for us during our ownership period.
Separately we have entered into a purchase and sale agreement to acquire the 1 053-room Boston Park Plaza hotel for a gross purchase price of $250 million or approximately $237 000 per key.
We will fund the Boston Park Plaza acquisition with a combination of cash on hand the assumption of a $119.5 million 4.4% interest nonrecourse mortgage secured by the hotel.
The gross purchase price equates to a 12.5x multiple on 2013 forecasted hotel adjusted EBITDA of $20 million and a 6.6% cap rate on 2013 forecasted hotel net operating income.
The historic Boston Park Plaza hotel is located in the Back Bay neighborhood of Boston and occupies a triangular block formed by Arlington Street Park Plaza and Columbus Avenue.
The hotel is centrally located amid some of Boston's strongest business and leisure demand generators.
We are acquiring this well-located unbranded hotel as is at an attractive going-in yield.
That said we do see the opportunity to create additional upside through certain capital investments into the asset.
Our immediate business plan for the hotel entails a build-out and lease-up of nearly 43 000 square feet of ground level and below-grade retail spaces fronting Arlington Street and Park Plaza.
We also plan to invest in certain upgrades to the hotel's physical plant and infrastructure.
These projects will largely be handled behind the scenes with limited disruption and will in many cases enhance guest experience and improve the hotel's competitiveness and efficiency.
We expect to invest approximately $15 million into such projects over the next 18 months.
Longer term and after further asset and market analysis we may elect to execute a more comprehensive repositioning program for the hotel.
If we decide to execute a full hotel repositioning program we will provide details on investment rationale timing scope and projected total investment at the time we elect to proceed.
Again we are acquiring this well-located unbranded hotel as is at an attractive going-in yield so any future repositioning of the asset will be fully at our discretion.
We've included both the Hilton New Orleans St.
Charles and the Boston Park Plaza in our supplemental disclosures this quarter to give you a better perspective on how these 2 assets fit into our portfolio.
I should note that in January of this year the current owners of the Boston Park Plaza completed a project to split 112 large guestrooms into a total of 224 smaller guestrooms.
As you may expect the net effect of adding 112 keys has been a moderate reduction in the hotel's baseline RevPAR as compared to 2012.
To be clear the expected year-over-year decline in RevPAR for the Boston Park Plaza you see in our supplemental is not due to declining business trends which remain strong for this hotel and for the Boston market in general.
This is simply a year-over-year effect of adding 112 keys.
I should also reiterate that both announced transactions will satisfy the 1031 exchange requirements for the Rochester hotel portfolio we sold earlier this year.
And finally I should note that while we are under hard contract to acquire the Boston Park Plaza and we are proceeding on pace to close the acquisition in the late second quarter or early third quarter as the acquisition entails typical closing conditions and a loan assumption at this time we cannot provide a specific closing date nor can we provide complete certainty that the acquisition will close at all.
We will of course plan to provide information on the close once it occurs.
Now let's turn to our balance sheet.
We've consistently stated that our objective is to improve the quality and scale of our portfolio while gradually deleveraging our balance sheet.
Our plan is to accomplish this primarily through operational improvements the sale of non-core hotels and through equity-funded acquisitions.
As the Boston Park Plaza is currently financed with an attractively priced new mortgage which would be costly to prepay we have elected to assume this mortgage and concurrently repay other more expensive prepayable leverage already on our balance sheet.
Accordingly we are in the process of redeeming our 6.45% Series C convertible preferred securities which have an outstanding principal amount of $100 million.
The combination of our assumption of the Boston Park Plaza mortgage and our redemption of the Series C preferreds will have the effect of increasing our nominal leverage by just $19.5 million.
But more importantly when considered in the context of our 2 hotel acquisitions valued at more than $309 million the combined transactions will be a meaningfully deleveraging event for the company.
Moreover as the interest rate on the Boston Park Plaza mortgage is more than 2 percentage points lower than the yield on the Series C our overall fixed charges will decline by roughly $2 million per annum resulting in a nice improvement in our fixed charge coverage ratio.
Also as the Series C preferreds contain our most restrictive package of corporate financial covenants the elimination of this convertible security will further improve our financial flexibility.
Year-to-date upon completing the Series C redemption we will have eliminated $276 million of corporate leverage at an average yield of 7.4% and we will have added just $119.5 million of single asset secured debt with an interest rate of 4.4%.
We have increased the midpoint of our full year adjusted EBITDA guidance by 4% to $240 million and we have increased the midpoint of our adjusted FFO per share guidance by roughly 7% to $0.94 to reflect the partial year impact of our -- of the hotel acquisitions we announced yesterday and our balance sheet transactions just discussed.
Moving on to hotel renovations.
Year-to-date our design and construction team has made good progress on our 2013 capital repositioning program which is heavily weighted in the first quarter.
To give you a few specifics we have completed the $15 million renovation of the Hilton Times Square fully renovating all 460 guestrooms bathrooms and corridors to further enhance the business transient appeal of this hotel.
We also completed a full rooms renovation in our Portland Marriott in the first quarter.
We are currently wrapping up the complete repositioning of our 417-room Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile.
I was at this hotel on Friday and the project is really coming together well.
The repositioning program encompasses every facet of the property all public spaces food and beverage menus meeting rooms guestrooms and bathrooms to enhance the hotel's appeal to the high-rated business transient and group travelers in the downtown Chicago market.
We expect to complete the work in early July of 2013 and we will be hosting a NAREIT reception in June at the hotel to showcase this project.
Finally we're putting the finishing touches on the comprehensive renovations at the Renaissance Westchester and the Hyatt Regency Newport Beach both of which we expect to complete in the second quarter.
During the first quarter as expected we incurred approximately $7 million of renovation-related revenue displacement.
Most of this displacement occurred at the Hilton Times Square the Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile and the Hyatt Regency Newport Beach.
Just as we've seen with our other recent renovations we expect the revenue displacement we incurred during the first quarter to be followed by ongoing revenue outperformance in the quarters ahead.
For example the recently completed $25 million full guestroom renovation of our 807-room Renaissance Washington D.C.
is already driving material outperformance in 2013.
During the first quarter the hotel's RevPAR was up 25.8% and 2013 full year group pace is currently up 15.7%.
I'll spend a minute now on lodging fundamentals.
In short we believe the lodging recovery that began in December of 2009 remains on track and we remain positive in our longer-term view of the recovery.
Consistent with our prior comments we expect continued gradual improvement in lodging industry fundamentals for the next several years albeit at a more gradual rate of recovery than during prior cyclical recoveries.
The current U.S.
lodging demand-to-supply growth rate spread is roughly 2.6% in favor of demand which is well above historical norms.
This is a positive indicator for the health of our industry and we believe this dynamic is likely to persist for several more years given expectations for sub-2% supply growth across the U.S.
through 2014 and continued growth in demand for lodging which has benefited from the rebound in corporate profits and improving consumer and business sentiment.
Importantly demand for lodging has remained resilient despite persistent ongoing macroeconomic uncertainty over the past several years.
As demand has continued to improve many of our hotels are now at or above prior peak occupancy levels.
Given our high occupancy levels we're working with our operators to be more aggressive at pushing rates which should lead to further margin expansion.
Our portfolio generated well over $20 000 in hotel EBITDA per key in 2012.
And as we have improved the efficiency of our hotels over the past several years we believe same-store profitability should meaningfully exceed prior peak levels as this recovery continues.
And with that I'll now turn the call over to John to discuss our portfolio operations in greater detail.
Thank you Ken and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
I will review our portfolio's first quarter performance in greater detail and then provide a brief recap of our balance sheet and liquidity.
First let's start with group demand.
Group demand continues to grow at a healthy pace as we expect total group room nights on a same-store basis to increase by approximately 3% in 2013.
As many of you are aware group room rate growth has been modest thus far during the cyclical recovery.
For example in 2012 group room rates increase across our portfolio were virtually flat.
Recently this trend has improved as our operators have achieved more instances of group room rate increases and as we burn off lower-rated groups booked during the cyclical trough.
For example group ADR increased over 6% in the first quarter and is expected to increase approximately 3% for the full year 2013.
That said group rate increases remain sporadic and largely based on market-specific factors.
At the end of the first quarter our group pace for the remainder of 2013 was up 2.2% with a 60-basis point decline in group room nights and a 2.8% increase in rates.
Group reduction in the first quarter declined by 13% relative to the same quarter in 2012.
However I should note that in the first quarter of 2012 our group production was positively impacted by the execution of 3 multiyear contracts at the Renaissance Orlando.
From a longer-term perspective our first quarter group reduction of 234 000 room nights was the second strongest first quarter for group bookings in the past 7 years.
In summary group demand in pricing is demonstrating improvement.
Now let's focus on transient demand trends.
While first quarter transient revenues were hindered by lost occupancy at our 4 hotels under major renovation transient demand trends remain relatively healthy and in general transient room rates are advancing at a faster pace than group rates.
With occupancies at or near previous peak levels we expect transient rates to increase by approximately 5% in 2013 as increasing demand allows our revenue managers to remix the business towards higher-rated segments of demand.
During the first quarter the hotels within our portfolio that were not under renovation were sold out 18% of the time which represents a 4% increase in sold-out room nights versus the first quarter of 2012.
As is normally the case the year-over-year operating results vary considerably by hotel.
In addition to the 4 hotels under major renovation during the first quarter we witnessed below average or negative RevPAR growth in a few hotels.
For example RevPAR declined by nearly 2% at the Hilton San Diego Bayfront as expected due to soft citywide convention calendar.
On the other hand several hotels delivered very strong results in the first quarter.
A few examples include first the Renaissance Washington D.C.
which grew RevPAR by almost 26% due to strong group bookings the benefit of our recently completed renovation and the presidential inauguration.
Second the JW New Orleans which witnessed a nearly 17% increase in RevPAR due to the Super Bowl and the strategy to push room rates.
And third the Doubletree Times Square which posted a 12.5% increase in RevPAR due to the continued strength in the Manhattan market and the ongoing benefit of demand generated by Hurricane Sandy-related business earlier in the quarter.
On the expense front our hotel portfolio experienced above inflationary increases in sales promotion real estate taxes and property insurance in the first quarter.
Offsetting this our portfolio benefited from cost containment efforts in both hotel G&amp;A and energy expenses.
As discussed during our previous calls we continue to improve our energy efficiencies and decrease our energy costs through various energy savings initiatives.
These initiatives include installation of in-room intelligent heating and cooling systems installation of variable frequency drives retrofitting hotel lighting installation of more efficient chillers and outsourcing laundry.
Over the past 3 quarters we've implemented new energy efficiencies in 23% of our hotels and as a result these initiatives have helped reduce our energy cost per occupied room by 3.4% in the first quarter.
For example at the San Diego Hilton Bayfront we installed new lighting intelligent thermostats and variable frequency drives and witnessed a 12% decrease in energy cost per occupied rooms during the first quarter.
We are at the early stages of implementing these energy savings programs and we are targeting returns well in excess of 20% on our invested capital.
While general revenue and expense control trends across our portfolio are positive we do expect certain items to create some drag on our property level earnings growth.
For example the revised guidance published yesterday reflects tempered growth expectations for the Doubletree Times Square due to the recent changes to Hilton's HHonors programs which increased the points required for a 1-night stay at our hotel.
We expect that these rules changes will reduce the volume of HHonors redemption at this property which could impede RevPAR growth going forward.
We are highly focused on this matter and are in the early stages of evaluating options to maximize the value of this important and very valuable asset.
I'll now turn to our balance sheet and give you an overview of our liquidity and overall leverage profile.
With respect to liquidity Sunstone ended the first quarter with approximately $417 million of cash including $69 million of restricted cash and $139 million of cash held by a 1031 exchange accommodator.
Adjusting for the 2 acquisitions announced yesterday as well as the redemption of our Series C preferred our pro forma unrestricted cash balance at the end of the quarter would have been $58 million.
These transactions have or will shortly put to work the relatively large investable cash balance held recently.
In addition to our cash position we have an undrawn $150 million line of credit in 12 unencumbered hotels including the newly acquired Hilton New Orleans St.
Charles.
During 2012 these unencumbered assets collectively generated approximately $57 million of EBITDA.
At the end of the quarter Sunstone had $1.5 billion of consolidated debt and preferred securities which includes 100% of the $234 million mortgage secured by the Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
Adjusting for the debt attributed to our minority partner in this asset our pro rata debt balance is currently $1.46 billion which consists entirely of low staggered non-crossed mortgage debt and preferred securities.
Adjusting for the pending assumption of the $119.5 million mortgage on the Boston Park Plaza and our pending redemption of the $100 million of Series C preferreds our pro rata balance sheet leverage approximates $1.48 billion.
Furthermore when adjusting for the assumption of the Boston Park Plaza loan our debt has a weighted average term to maturity at 4.5 years at an average interest rate including the effects of our interest rate derivative agreements of 4.9%.
Our variable rate debt as a percentage of total debt stands at 29% and we have no debt maturities through early 2015.
As Ken mentioned we're in the process of redeeming the entire $100 million balance of the Series C convertible preferred securities.
The dividend rate on the Series C is modestly above market and it contains restrictive financial covenants that limited our financial flexibility during the most recent cyclical downturn.
Retaining the Series C effectively allows us to acquire $310 million of hotels while taking on relatively little net leverage.
While we are comfortable with our current leverage profile we expect to further reduce our financial leverage in a methodical and shareholder-friendly manner in order to maximize our financial flexibility as the lodging cycle continues.
Now before I turn the call over to Bryan I would like to draw your attention to one specific expense recorded in the first quarter.
During the quarter we resolved with the Internal Revenue Service an audit for our taxable REIT subsidiary that has been going on for over 2 years.
The resolution finalizes the audit for the years 2008 through 2010.
As part of the resolution we agreed to pay the IRS $4.7 million and booked a potential noncash tax liability of $1.5 million to account for potential liabilities in 2011 and 2012.
Most importantly this audit has been resolved and we believe strongly that our liability going forward regarding these matters is de minimis.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bryan for a review of our earnings guidance.
Bryan please go ahead.
Thank you John.
A full reconciliation of our current guidance can be found on Pages 17 to 19 of our supplemental as well as in our earnings release.
We expect second quarter 2013 RevPAR to grow 2.5% to 4.5% which includes 75 to 100 basis points of renovation disruption primarily from the Hyatt Chicago which we expect to be completed in July.
We expect second quarter adjusted EBITDA to come in between $69 million and $71 million and we expect second quarter adjusted FFO per diluted share to be between $0.29 and $0.30.
We have increased our full year guidance to reflect the impact of the 2 hotel acquisitions and the Series C redemption we announced yesterday.
Our new full year 2013 adjusted EBITDA guidance now ranges from $233 million to $247 million an increase of $10 million from the midpoint of our prior guidance.
And our new full year adjusted FFO guidance now ranges from $0.90 to $0.98 an increase of $0.06 from the midpoint of our prior guidance.
Again today's guidance reflects our ownership period of the Hilton New Orleans beginning May 1 the redemption of the Series C on May 31 and an expected closing date for the Boston Park Plaza of July 24.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Ken to wrap up.
Thank you very much Bryan.
I have just a few closing remarks before opening up the call to questions.
Industry fundamentals are constructive and we believe the next several years will be characterized by continued moderate improvements in hotel demand high hotel occupancy levels strong hotel level pricing power and consequently meaningful growth in both hotel cash flows and asset values.
Sunstone's high-quality portfolio is well positioned to capitalize on continued lodging industry growth.
Our recently renovated hotels are poised for growth and our business plan is unchanged.
The lodging industry follows a textbook cycle and accordingly we will continue to carefully grow the quality and scale of our portfolio while gradually deleveraging our balance sheet in order to hit the next cyclical peak with low leverage high liquidity and the financial flexibility to play offense during all phases of the lodging cycle.
Thank you for your time today and for your continued interest in Sunstone.
And with that let's open up the call to questions.
John please go ahead.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question today comes from Ryan Meliker with MLV &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions regarding the acquisitions.
I think first with regards to the Park Plaza can you give us some color on group mix versus transient mix? And is there a lot of OTA business there being an independent property in an urban market but at the same time it has a ton of meeting space? So I just wanted to get some color on where the operating business plan was for that property going forward.
Sure.
Thanks a lot Ryan.
The Boston Park Plaza is mostly transient.
It's an urban hotel.
It's run by Highgate who's a terrific operator and they really know how to turn the dial so to speak in terms of revenue managing a highly transient business and leisure-oriented hotel.
You're exactly right that the hotel has fairly limited meeting space relative to its room space so we would expect the hotel to continue to be operated primarily transient.
It does rely on OTAs to some degree to fill up the box.
And while I don't have the exact percentage of the OTA business it's higher than you would see in a Marriott-branded hotel for example which does rely on the Marriott system for additional fill of the hotels.
We look at that -- the unbranded nature and the highly transient nature of the hotel as an opportunity for future growth.
As I noted in my comments we're evaluating right now positioning a plan for the hotel which may entail potentially the use of a brand in the future potentially a shift in the business mix for the asset.
But right now given the yield at which we're buying the hotel we feel very comfortable about the investment in terms of having little downside and plenty of opportunities for upside.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then the $15 million in capital that you're planning to reinvest in that property I'm assuming that's above and beyond an FF&amp;E reserve-type situation.
Was that included in your cap rate metric or no? No the cap rate is based on the in-place cash flows and the upfront purchase price.
You're right that the $15 million is on or after an FF&amp;E reserve.
And the $15 million as I mentioned in my comments entails infrastructure elevators and primarily the build-out of the 43 000 square feet of leasable space that fronts the street level in that hotel.
Keep in mind that the benefits of some of that $15 million is not captured in the income stream as well.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then one last question.
With regards to New Orleans that seems to be a phenomenal valuation for a high-quality asset down in New Orleans.
Was that a market deal? How did you come across it? What made you guys be the winning bidder there? Yes good question.
I appreciate you recognized the fundamentals of that deal.
We're very pleased with the valuation.
This was an off-market deal as technically the Boston Park Plaza was as well.
We've had conversations with the ownership group there for actually over a year as we continue to hang around the hoop as it were with that asset.
As it relates to the New Orleans property Dimension is the operator and we are -- we have a pre-existing relationship there with that group.
They were looking to lighten up their investment but retain management of the hotel which puts us in a good position similar to what we did with the Hilton Garden Inn in Chicago last year with Crestline to give them a retained market-based management contract and yet acquire the hotel at what you correctly characterized as a very attractive purchase price.
Your next question on the line comes from Joshua Attie with Citi.
Research Division</strong> On Park Plaza it seems like a great location with a lot of flexibility in terms of what you can do since it's fee simple and it's not encumbered by a brand.
At the same time it's a very large asset with 1 000 rooms.
The room product seems like it's a little bit older and these things may limit the amount of corporate business the hotel currently does and also the rates being achieved.
It almost seems a little bit like the Park Central in New York.
I guess my question is when you underwrote the property what were some of the capital investment scenarios that you considered in terms of changes to the physical product and branding? And what level of CapEx could we possibly see go into the asset over the next couple of years? Sure Josh I appreciate that question.
As you can imagine our investment memos run roughly 75 pages here and they do entail a number of different investment scenarios.
As we said in our comments today our initial plan simply relates to some of the low-hanging fruit related to the retail and the HVAC and some of the guest systems which will ultimately enhance the guest experience on a fairly straightforward basis.
Once we spend a little bit more time with the asset a little bit more time in the market and basically develop a much more detailed thesis on the investment we could see a scenario where there is a repositioning of the hotel that entails a much more fulsome and comprehensive capital program.
That could run -- given the rooms base it could run $40 million $50 million when all is said and done.
That is not planning as we start -- as we enter into this investment today as I stated.
It's a very good asset with good upside.
It's a 3-star property so -- at the current level so there certainly could be a scenario where we upscale or up-brand the property although we never see it as a luxury hotel.
And given the going-in yields we have very limited downside and we're going to be very careful about developing a more comprehensive renovation program before we embark on something like that.
Most likely that scenario wouldn't even come into play until year probably 3 of our investment and so all I would encourage you to do is to stay tuned.
We're highly cognizant of the implications of taking a big hotel like this offline and repositioning.
And that is not our plan as we sit here today at least not for the foreseeable future.
Research Division</strong> What kind of rates does the Park Plaza currently get versus what you would view the competitive set to be? So last year the hotel did a RevPAR that was north of $140 so it compares very -- fairly favorably to the rest of our portfolio.
It does run a lower index than the balance of its competitive set.
Although if you look at the comp set with some of the compli hotels and some of the other assets in the market it's not exactly -- this isn't a real direct comparable if you will with Highgate as the operator.
The strategy has been to maximize occupancy so we run a higher than 100% occupancy index and we run a lower than 100% ADR index.
It works out to be roughly call it an 80% ADR index and 110% occupancy index.
Your next question on line comes from Ian Weissman with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on the Park Plaza deal.
Can you first describe maybe the landscape of deals over the last 4 5 months that you looked at and then how you came to the conclusion that this was the deal that you want to decide on? Absolutely.
Another good question.
We knew that the Rochester sale was going to take place well in advance of that deal actually crossing the finish line.
So over the last 6 or 7 months we've spent a fair amount of time looking at various deals.
Of course we've looked at all the heavily marketed transactions that have come through the broker channels.
In many instances or frankly as you can see from today's announcement in all instances we for one reason or another concluded that those were not deals that we were competitive in.
We looked at several other assets through relationships that ultimately didn't pencil for us.
They were much much higher multiple transactions in certain markets where we don't currently have a critical mass of hotel investments.
They were deals that were -- that in and of themselves entailed certain additional capital requirements repositioning requirements and additional risk.
And yet instead of being able to acquire them at a weighted average multiple of 12.3x you're looking at mid- to upper teens in many cases.
So most of the hotels we looked at ranged from 300 keys to 500 keys so Boston Park Plaza is certainly on the larger end of the scale and frankly the Hilton in New Orleans was on a smaller end of the scale.
And yet given our knowledge and our desire to build out concentrations of assets in both of those markets these 2 assets fairly quickly gravitated up to the top of our list.
And while neither of these deals is what we would consider a complete walk-off Grand Slam both of them are very compelling investments given our cost of capital the limited downside and the clear opportunities for upside in both cases.
Research Division</strong> Would you say the multiple premiums that you're seeing in the marketplace today have as much to do with the limited supply of properties to buy? Or are you seeing private equity or additional capital getting more aggressive? It's a combination.
Honestly if you look back over the last couple of years early on in the cyclical recoveries the REITs were the only entities at the dance right? And we had a good cost of capital advantage and the REITs were fairly aggressively at acquiring hotels.
Debt has become more and more plentiful as this cycle has continued to evolve and now you're seeing a variety of other institutional players step into the fray especially those who contrary to our strategy are willing to revert back to kind of the prior cycle tactics of putting on heavy leverage taking advantage of the current low interest rate environment.
And as a result they're paying much higher prices than we can pencil on many assets.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 other questions and I'll give up the floor.
The 43 000 square feet of retail that you talked about with buildup and lease -- the build-out and lease-up of the retail it's my understanding a lot of the retail's already leased.
Is there a retenanting opportunity that you see? And is that part of your cap rate underwriting? Yes a couple of things all at once.
There is a retenanting opportunity.
There's also retail space -- or potential retail space that's currently occupied by existing hotel operations whether it's back of the house or office.
We see that as a clear opportunity to move hotel functions out of street front and below street front spaces and utilize those spaces for higher and better use.
So it's a combination of a variety of different uses and opportunities.
So -- but the total is roughly 43 000 square feet of opportunity if you will.
Research Division</strong> And is that part of your underwriting in terms of your cap rate on '13? No it's -- none of the leasing upside is included in our cap rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And finally union or non-union hotel? This is a union hotel.
Your next question on the line comes from Lukas Hartwich with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bryan you're going to own the Hilton New Orleans [indiscernible] but it looks like you're only going to receive 40% of the EBITDA.
Is that because of the Super Bowl? Or what's going on there? It is a seasonality issue with more of the EBITDA obviously coming in in the first quarter and then amplified by the Super Bowl.
And then obviously in New Orleans the summertime is the seasonally slow time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know the Hilton deal was off market but I'm just curious how different the competition is for deals in markets like that versus Boston for example.
How different the competition is for deals in markets like New Orleans versus Boston? I mean clearly the...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I mean my guess is that there's just a lot more people in Boston.
I'm just curious in New Orleans are you the only person in the tent? And I know the most recent deal was off market but I'm just kind of curious.
Yes it's funny.
Traditionally I think you're right.
And certainly during the earlier points of recovery in this cycle the primary gateway markets like Boston New York D.C.
et cetera San Francisco were hotly contested and you saw deals that were fairly crowded in terms of the bidder space.
And we moved into New Orleans fairly early in the cycle fairly limited competition.
This was an unmarketed deal so we didn't face any competition technically on the transaction but we certainly have seen other folks in our space in the New Orleans market and other potential buyers looking to buy.
You've seen several deals by some of our REIT peers in the New Orleans market over the last several months.
Your next question comes from Nikhil Bhalla with FBR.
Research Division</strong> When I look at the pro forma for the Hilton New Orleans it seems like on a full year basis 2013 EBITDA margins would have been like 40%.
What may be behind that if you don't mind sharing? Are you asking if they should be higher or lower? Research Division</strong> No just 40% seems pretty strong and I'm just wondering if there -- is there something specific there that 40%? There's a few things.
It is a 250-room hotel but it's really run as a rooms-only box.
The F&amp;B which is very strong and popular location in the New Orleans market is leased out so we get a decent yield on that without any ancillary overhead.
So that's the biggest piece of it.
It's mostly a transient hotel limited additional overhead associated with the banquets business and then F&amp;B is leased out.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then finally just your outlook on acquisition for the rest of the year or the resale of properties.
I see on your balance sheet you still have about $127 million of cash at the end of the quarter or after everything is done the use of cash.
Thank you.
I appreciate that question because we really didn't hit this point home as well as we might have on the call.
We do not feel at all compelled to aggressively go out and pursue acquisitions over the remainder of this year or going forward.
We'll absolutely be doing exactly what we've done throughout this cycle carefully fostering and developing deals that make sense for the company that could entail us buying several additional hotels over the course of this year or it could result in us not buying anything in the course of this year but we do not feel at all like that's needed as part of our business strategy.
Where we are in the cycle right now is likely to result in some fairly meaningful growth in operational cash flows.
We're very pleased with the progress that we've made thus far on our balance sheet.
And so as we stand today we're certainly not going to stretch or force any acquisitions going forward nor have we to date so we'll be very careful about that.
And once again I can't -- as a result I can't predict what if any transactions we'll complete over the remainder of this year.
Research Division</strong> What about sale of any hotels? We have a couple of hotels on our portfolio let's call it 2 to 4 hotels that are -- that would fall into the non-core category.
If you look at the assets that we've sold over the last several years hotels that have double-digit RevPAR that are in slower growth locations or assets where we've executed on our full ownership business plan are likely candidates to be sold.
So there's literally 2 to 4 hotels within our portfolio that would represent fairly compelling sale candidates.
Once again we're not going to force any sale transactions.
And so inasmuch as the acquisitions market is heated up it's probably a good time for us to put on our seller hat and look to liquidate a couple of these non-core assets.
Nothing to announce today but stay tuned over the next couple of quarters.
Just to add emphasis there.
We do have $128 million of cash but keep in mind that includes restricted cash.
So the unrestricted balance is about $58 million.
Your next question on the line comes from Patrick Scholes with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you could just give me an update on your thoughts for -- or what -- excuse me your thoughts on any dividend.
Thoughts on a dividend.
So we've stated in the past that one of our goals is to establish a well-supported cash dividend that can be available to our investors through all phases of the cycle.
You've also heard us state and this is I think readily apparent to most of our investors that the payment of a hefty cash dividend is contrary to the strategy of our capital-intensive business like a lodging REIT.
It's a volatile class of real estate.
It requires a fair amount of capital.
And as you've seen in the past many lodging REITs who have implemented dividends have had to cut those dividends during cyclical downturns.
We have -- bear no illusions that this is not going to follow a typical cyclical pattern and that there will eventually be a cyclical downside.
So our focus is far more on executing on our long-term strategy of continuing to deleverage the balance sheet continuing to grow the quality and scale of our portfolio and generate strong returns for investors just like you saw last year by -- through appreciating value in our stock rather than through a significant recurring cash dividend.
Again as I stated in the beginning of this response eventually we will be paying a cash dividend.
But based on what I just said you can expect that that cash dividend will be relatively small and well supported.
Your next question comes from Bill Crow with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on Boston acquisition.
First of all the motivation of the seller at this point I don't know if you covered that.
So the Boston I cannot speak for the motivation of the seller but I can tell you that they acquired it at the very early end of the cycle at a time when it was operated by a different operator.
And the seller has been very effective at taking some steps to improve the profitability and cash flow of the property to the point where this is a private seller to the point where they're able to put some points up on the board by selling the asset at this point even at a price that to us is very attractive.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as you look at the market the submarket you talked about potentially branding the hotel as one of your options.
What brands do you think are available based on geographic restrictions and other issues in that market? Sure.
And I just put it out there as a scenario.
It's unbranded now and certainly a branding scenario is one of many alternatives for the asset.
We frankly don't have a plan to put a brand on the asset.
We think the cost of paying for that brand is probably not going to offset the benefit in terms of additional distribution.
Available brands in the market could be Autograph could be some of the other major brands.
But right now we haven't even explored the -- explored that scenario in a detailed way.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Ken finally for me.
You talked about the acquisition cycle historically that it has kind of morphed as the cycle progresses from REITs to private equity and opportunity funds.
Historically we've then seen that morph into M&amp;A activity privatization maybe even strategic deals.
As you think about Sunstone going forward do you think you'll be a participant a spectator? Does that interest you to potentially be an industry consolidator going forward? I appreciate the question.
We've talked about this one in the past a few times.
Our view is that the industry is highly fragmented.
We believe that the REIT model is optimized with greater scale.
We -- that said we're certainly not in a position today to initiate consolidation in the industry.
Our goal here is to maximize value for our investors.
We're executing on a strategic plan which has done exactly that and is designed to create significant value through all phases of the cycle.
But obviously if the way to maximize value for our investors is through consolidation we will change course and we will pursue that.
And we have no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to Mr.
Giglia for any further comments.
Great.
Thank you all again for your time today.
We appreciate all the insightful questions and we look forward to meeting with many of you over the next several weeks.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Q2 2013 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today Tuesday August 6 2013 at 9:00 a.m.
Pacific Standard Time.
I will now turn the presentation over to Sunstone's Chief Financial Officer Bryan Giglia.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Laura and good morning everyone.
By now you should have all received a copy of our second quarter earnings release and our supplemental which were released yesterday.
If you do not yet have a copy you can access them on our website at www.sunstonehotels.com.
Before we begin this call I'd like to remind everyone that this call contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties including those described in our prospectuses 10-Ks 10-Qs and other filings with the SEC which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
We caution you to consider those factors in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
We also note that this call may contain non-GAAP financial information including EBITDA adjusted EBITDA FFO adjusted FFO and hotel EBITDA margins.
We are providing that information as a supplement to information prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
With us on the call today are Ken Cruse Chief Executive Officer; John Arabia President; and Marc Hoffman Chief Operating Officer.
After our remarks we will be available to answer your questions.
Before I turn the call over to Ken I'd like to remind everyone that with the beginning of this year we adopted calendar reporting quarters for our 10 Marriott managed hotels similar to the rest of our portfolio which also reports on a calendar basis.
Last year reporting for our Marriott managed hotels was based on a 13-period fiscal calendar.
As a result of this calendar shift our revenues net income adjusted EBITDA and adjusted FFO for Q2 2013 include 7 additional days of operations for our Marriott managed hotels as compared with Q2 2012.
With that I'd like to now turn the call over to Ken.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Bryan and thank you all for joining us today on today's call.
I'll start by reviewing our second quarter earnings report and our recent transaction activity.
Next I'll discuss some leading indicators for our portfolio and the industry.
And finally I'll cover our rationale for reinstating cash common dividends.
Following my comments John will discuss our capital investment program and the state of play in the hotel acquisitions market.
Marc will then review our operations in detail and specific asset management initiatives.
Finally Bryan will go over our liquidity balance sheet and guidance for the third quarter and full year before I wrap up our prepared remarks and open up the call for questions.
To begin with our second quarter was in line with guidance.
Looking at the various components our revenue per available room grew by 2.6% over the second quarter 2012 which was at the low end of our guidance range due primarily to slightly slower-than-expected corporate group trends during the quarter.
At the same time our adjusted EBITDA adjusted FFO and adjusted FFO per diluted share all came in at the high end of our guidance range.
Our adjusted average daily rate grew by $6.50 to $188.89 while our occupancy declined by 80 basis points to 83%.
Our quarterly decline in occupancy was almost solely attributable to renovation displacement at the Four Hotels in which we were completing major repositioning projects during the first part of the quarter.
Excluding the 4 renovation hotels our portfolio occupancy grew by 60 basis points to 83.9% in the quarter which on a same-store basis is the highest ever second quarter occupancy level for our portfolio.
Our comparable hotel EBITDA margins improved by 10 basis points to 33.1% during the second quarter.
Here again our margin performance was impacted by short-term displacement related to renovations.
Excluding the 4 renovation hotels our hotel EBITDA margins improved by 80 basis points to 34.7% in Q2 as our operators effectively translated incremental revenues into greater bottom line profitability through a variety of proactive profit improvement measures.
Marc will discuss some of our profit improvement initiatives in greater detail later in the call.
Moving on to transactions.
Improving the quality and scale of our portfolio while gradually deleveraging our balance sheet has been and remains our core strategic objective.
During the quarter we completed several transactions that helped to advance this objective.
On May 1 we acquired the 250-room Hilton New Orleans St.
Charles as part of the 1031 like-kind exchange.
On May 31 we redeemed all of our 6.45% Series C convertible preferred stock at face value of $100 million.
We used cash from our February 2013 common stock offering to fund this redemption.
The redemption effectively offset the leverage we took on pursuant to the Boston Park Plaza acquisition which included the assumption of $119 million 4.4% mortgage.
On that point after the quarter end on July 2 we closed on the $250 million acquisition of the Boston Park Plaza hotel.
This transaction completed the tax-efficient recycling of proceeds from our sale of non-core assets earlier in the year.
During our 2013 period of ownership we expect the Boston Park Plaza to generate between $8 million and $9.5 million of adjusted EBITDA and between $6.5 million and $8 million of net operating income.
I know many of you have questions about our long-term plans for the Boston Park Plaza.
While we acquired this 1 053-room hotel as is at an attractive going-in yield we see broad-ranging opportunities to enhance the competitiveness and value of this well-located asset.
Our team has been actively engaged in framing out a comprehensive long-term positioning plan for this hotel similar to the exercise we undertook when we acquired the hotel that is now the Hyatt Magnificent Mile in Chicago.
As we are finalizing the plan now expect more information on our strategy for the Boston Park Plaza later this year.
To give you a better perspective on how both the Boston Park Plaza and the Hilton New Orleans St.
Charles fit into our overall portfolio we've included hotel level financials and full company pro forma adjusted EBITDA and FFO per share for Q2 and year to date for both 2013 and 2012 in our supplemental disclosures this quarter.
I should reiterate that prior ownership recently added 112 keys to the Boston Park Plaza by splitting 112 larger rooms into 224 smaller rooms.
As a result year-over-year RevPAR for this hotel is not comparable and will not be included in our full year comparable hotel RevPAR statistics during 2013.
As expected while the additional rooms will have the effect of reducing the hotel's overall RevPAR the hotel is on pace to increase total revenue by approximately 6% in 2013.
Turning to hotel renovations.
Our design and construction team has been very active this year on a broad range of repositioning projects.
As of now the team has completed all of our most disruptive 2013 capital projects.
And as expected we're achieving solid growth from hotels where we've recently completed renovations.
For example in July our recently renovated hotels achieved average year-over-year RevPAR growth of 9%.
We expect these solid post-renovation growth trends to continue during the second half of 2013 and beyond.
Speaking of future growth while we expect macroeconomic factors such as sequestration to continue to have an effect on the overall growth rate for lodging it's important to keep such factors in perspective.
The reality is that macro factors have tempered demand for lodging since the current recovery began over 45 months ago.
Yet travelers are hitting the road in record numbers and our operators are gradually achieving pricing gains as occupancies are at or above prior peak levels.
In short while certain macroeconomic impediments to growth remain we are seeing a number of green lights as we look ahead.
One of the best leading indicators for our business is group booking productivity which we define as of all future group room nights booked during a specific period.
While corporate group was a bit softer than expected in the second quarter our second quarter group productivity was very strong.
Specifically our same-store group bookings during the second quarter increased 20% over the second quarter 2012.
This is record level group productivity for our portfolio.
As a result our current year group pace or group revenues on the books for the current year is now the strongest it has been over the past 5 years and our 2014 group pace implies continued growth over 2013.
Specifically while our 2014 group pace was slightly below trend when we last spoke our 2014 group pace is now up approximately 1.1% over 2013 pace the same time last year.
To be fair in isolation our 1.1% increase in group pace is nothing to write home about.
But when considered in the context of the very high occupancy level of our portfolio we expect that our solid 2014 group base will have to further improve the business transient pricing power of our hotels as the laws in supply and demand continue to move in our favor.
Accordingly we expect our RevPAR and earnings growth to accelerate in the periods ahead.
To illustrate this point for the month of July our portfolio's comparable RevPAR grew by approximately 7%.
In short we believe the lodging recovery that began in December of 2009 remains solidly on track.
Consistent with our prior comments we expect continued gradual improvement in lodging industry fundamentals for the next several years albeit at a more gradual rate of recovery than during prior cycles.
While we're seeing pockets of new hotel supply in certain of our markets particularly New York Chicago and Washington D.C.
the trailing 12 months U.S.
lodging demand-to-supply growth rate spread is roughly 2.2% in favor of demand which is well above historical norms.
This is a positive indicator for the health of our industry.
As PKF projects sub-2% supply growth through 2015 we expect our industry's positive demand-to-supply ratio to persist for some time.
While we do expect the U.S.
lodging industry to see gradual increases in new hotel supply over the next 3 to 5 years given the relatively limited availability of development capital and the material discount to replacement value of most in-place hotels we believe overall hotel supply will for the next several years be meaningfully lower than the levels our industry has experienced during the last cycles.
Meanwhile we do expect to see continued growth in demand for upper upscale hotel rooms as the ongoing rebound in corporate profits and improving consumer and business sentiment continue to fuel higher rate of travel especially in the major U.S.
markets where we have hotel investments which brings us to our rationale for the reinstatement of our common dividend.
For a variety of good reasons we've been a staunch holdout on reinstituting cash common dividends thus far during the current recovery.
Specifically while it has been our long-term goal to pay a well-supported stable cash dividend our strategic objective of improving our portfolio quality and scale while gradually deleveraging our balance sheet has taken precedence over the past several years.
While our portfolio of quality and balance sheet objectives remain paramount we've made very good progress on these fronts over the last several years.
As a result of select acquisitions non-core hotel dispositions and our comprehensive renovation program our portfolio is well positioned for growth.
Additionally we've materially improved our balance sheet through debt repayments preferred equity redemptions and equity funded investments.
In light of our progress on these fronts we are now reinstating a well-supported quarterly cash dividend on our common shares.
Our goal is to pay a base quarterly dividend through all phases of the cycle.
Although our dividend rate may change in the future based on changes in our taxable income risks affecting our business and the overall status of our portfolio and balance sheet initiatives which I noted all remain paramount.
We believe that a $0.05 per quarter dividend in both the third quarter and fourth quarter of this year will satisfy our 2013 distribution requirements as we expect to utilize roughly $43 million of net operating loss carryforwards to offset our taxable income in 2013.
In 2014 our taxable income will no longer be offset by NOLs or the distributions may have preferred securities we retired earlier this year.
Beginning in 2014 we expect to make base quarterly cash dividends and we intend to employ an annual year-end distribution to satisfy the balance of our taxable income distribution requirements.
The size and nature of our year-end dividends will be determined during the fourth quarter of each year.
We believe this approach will enable our investors to benefit from a relatively consistent and predictable quarterly cash dividend and a relatively high onetime annual dividend during the continuation of the growth phase of the lodging cycle.
Again our goal would be to maintain good base dividend support during any future cyclical downturns with our annual dividends flexing based on changes in our operating environment.
Clearly the reinstitution of cash common dividend is a positive milestone for Sunstone.
And with that I'll now turn the call over to John to discuss our capital and investment plans going forward.
Thank you Ken.
Good morning everyone.
Today I will provide an update of our internal and external investment activities as well as an overview of the hotel acquisitions environment.
Let's start with our recent and pending renovation activities.
We're quite busy on the renovation front in the first half of this year as we invested roughly $69 million into our existing portfolio.
These first half renovations resulted in $10 million of revenue disruption and reduced our year-to-date RevPAR growth by approximately 270 basis points.
The most notable of these projects include: first the $25 million complete repositioning of the Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile; second the $15 million renovation of all 460 guestrooms at the Hilton Times Square; third the repositioning of the now 348-room Renaissance Westchester which included the addition of one new guest room; and fourth the full renovation of the now 407-room Hyatt Regency Newport Beach in which we repurposed space to add 4 additional keys.
Let's dig more deeply into the largest of these projects the Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile which I know many of you toured during the NAREIT conference in July.
We acquired this hotel formerly the Wyndham Chicago in June 2012 for contractual purchase price of $88 million and immediately started the hotel's repositioning.
The $25 million renovation which included converting unused space into 2 additional guest room increased our investment in the 419-room hotel to roughly $107 million or approximately $255 000 per key net of incentives provided by Hyatt.
We could not be happier with this investment and expect significant revenue and earnings growth going forward.
More specifically the hotel produced $4.7 million of EBITDA in 2012 and is expected to generate roughly $4 million in 2013 after experiencing a $1 million renovation impacted loss in the first quarter of 2013.
In 2014 the first full year as a renovated hotel we expect the hotel to generate over $9 million of EBITDA representing an all-in EBITDA multiple on our investment between 11.5x and 12x.
Again we couldn't be more pleased with the renovation and we'd like to thank not only the hotel's management team and associates for their great effort but also Davidson and Hyatt for their collaborative efforts.
We look forward to working with both Davidson and Hyatt on other projects in the near future.
During the second half of 2013 we expect to begin various routine renovations at 5 of our hotels including a rooms and ballroom renovation at the 781-room Renaissance Orlando a rooms renovation at the 374-room Renaissance Long Beach a rooms renovation at the 357-room Hilton Garden in Chicago and a lobby refresh at both the Hilton Times Square and the Doubletree Times Square.
Many of these projects will begin in the fourth quarter of this year and will be wrapped up early next year.
The good news is this unlike the disruptive renovations completed in the first half of this year we do not expect the renovation activity started in the second half of the year to materially impact our profits as renovation disruption should be routine.
One of the hotel renovations we expect to begin in the near future is the Boston Park Plaza which we acquired last month.
Now as many of you know this is quality real estate located in a very attractive location.
However as noted at the time of the acquisition the hotel has not been maintained to the level that we believe will maximize its profits or the return on our investment.
We are in the process of developing a long-term comprehensive repositioning plan for the asset which will begin with roughly $20 million of infrastructure work starting this year.
This infrastructure work such as materially improving the building's heating and cooling elevators and Internet connectivity will have a large positive impact on the guest experience and property appeal.
Over the next several quarters we'll update you on our plans to reposition this hotel and to maximize our return on this important asset.
Now let's talk about the acquisitions environment.
Despite the recent increase in interest rates there remains both a fairly large pool of potential acquisition targets and considerable competition for hotel real estate by both public and private investors.
For Class A properties in sought-after locations it appears that some investors have lowered bids in response to the increase in interest rates yet many have not.
As a result we believe that there has been a lighter dispersion of bids for hotels being marketed but no noticeable change in hotel asset values or cap rates thus far.
That said the recent increase in interest rates seems to have negatively impacted on the margin the value of pedestrian assets or those located in tertiary markets.
Looking forward we see opportunities to acquire well-located assets at attractive prices and we intend to remain an active investor as we look to continue to improve the quality and scale of our portfolio while gradually deleveraging our balance sheet.
As we have done in the past we will only move forward with acquisitions when we can acquire quality hotels at attractive prices funded with equity that is priced at or above NAV.
This approach may result in less acquisition activity for Sunstone than has been the case for many of the more acquisitive hotel investors in our space.
With that I'll turn it over to Marc to discuss our second quarter operating results and our thoughts on the current operating environment.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
I will review our portfolio second quarter performance in greater detail.
Please note that all statistics are for the 27-hotel portfolio excluding the Boston Park Plaza unless otherwise noted.
First let's start with group demand.
As Ken noted group demand continues to grow at a measured pace.
As many of you are aware group room rate growth has been modest thus far during the current recovery.
And in fact weak corporate group was the primary reason that our Q2 RevPAR came in at the low end of our guidance.
For perspective in 2012 compared to full year 2011 group room rates across our portfolio were virtually flat.
Recently this trend has improved as our operators have achieved more instances of group room rate increases as we burn off lower rate group booked during the cyclical trough.
For example group ADR increased over 3.9% in the second quarter and is expected to increase approximately 3% for the full year of 2013.
That said group rate increases remained sporadic and largely based upon market-specific factors.
At the end of the second quarter for our comparable portfolio our group pace for the remainder of 2013 was up 3.6% with a 50-basis-point increase in group room nights and a 3.1% increase in group rates.
Group production for all current and future years in the second quarter increased 20% over the second quarter last year and was the highest second quarter booking production in 5 years.
Our year-to-date group production has increased 3.2%.
Our bookings were positively impacted by Renaissance Orlando Marriott Quincy and the Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
In summary group demand and pricing is improving in most of our markets.
For our comparable portfolio third quarter booking pace has grown to 8% and our fourth quarter booking pace remains quite strong at 4.6%.
As we look forward to 2014 our group booking pace for all 28 hotels is now positive 1.1% which as Ken noted is a significant improvement to our 2014 pace from last quarter which was a negative 4%.
21 of our 28 hotels are showing strong pace growth in 2014.
The Renaissance Washington D.C.
is coming off an outstanding 2013 where pace is up 22% versus 2012 and is expected to achieve group revenues above their prior peak levels.
Removing the Renaissance Washington D.C.
outlier our 2014 pace for the portfolio is up 5.8%.
Now let's focus on transient demand trends.
More than 60% of our overall demand comes from transient travelers with business travelers comprising the largest segment of our transient demand.
While second quarter transient revenues were hindered by lost occupancy at the Four Hotels under major renovation transient demand trends remained relatively healthy.
With occupancy at or near previous peak levels we expect transient rates to increase by approximately 3% to 5% in 2013 as increasing demand allows our revenue managers to remix the business towards higher-rated segments of demand.
During the second quarter our comparable portfolio excluding the Four Hotels under renovation were sold out approximately 28% of the time which represents a 7% increase in sold-out room nights versus the second quarter of 2012.
A few revenue management data points.
Our premium room revenue improved 4.1%.
Our corporate negotiated ADR grew 5%.
And finally our discounted room segments grew ADR by 7% with discounted room nights declining 1.5% as our operators effectively shifted our business mix into higher-rated segments.
In addition to the Four Hotels under the major renovation in the second quarter we experienced below average or declining RevPAR in a few hotels.
As expected both of our New Orleans hotels experienced RevPAR declines due to a soft citywide convention calendar.
On the other hand several hotels delivered very strong results in the second quarter.
RevPAR for our Chicago combination of Embassy Suites and Hilton Garden Inn grew a combination -- combined 8.8% through strategic mix shifting.
Our Marriott Portland achieved a 19% increase in RevPAR as we employed an aggressive rate strategy following the completion of our rooms renovation earlier in the year.
Finally our 2 Houston hotels continue to achieve above-market growth with combined RevPAR growth in the second quarter of 9.5%.
In spite of relatively soft top line growth we achieved EBITDA flow during the second quarter through solid expense controls and various efficiency measures.
Our hotel portfolio departmental expense for occupied room grew at only 1.3%.
Our asset management team and hotels continue to constantly ask what if and how can we be smarter at running our business every single day.
Whether from reduced menu sizing to creative labor staff management our hotel cost models are positioned to take advantage of increasing ADR.
However we did experience some inflationary increases in sales promotion real estate taxes property insurance in the second quarter.
I should note that we completed our property insurance renewal at the end of June and we achieved a reduction of approximately 8.3% in property insurance premiums on a per key basis for the remainder of 2013 and the first half of 2014.
Our portfolio benefited from cost containments in both hotel G&amp;A and energy expenses.
As discussed during our previous calls we continue to improve our energy efficiencies and decrease our energy cost through various energy savings initiatives.
These initiatives include installation of in-room intelligent heating and cooling systems installation of variable frequency drives retrofitting hotel lighting to LED more efficient lighting installation of more efficient chillers and outsourcing of laundries.
Over the past 3 quarters we've implemented new energy efficiencies in 23% of our hotels.
And as a result these initiatives have helped reduce our quarterly energy cost with energy cost per occupied room declining 3.9% in the second quarter.
For example at the Hilton San Diego Bayfront where we installed new lighting intelligent thermostats and variable frequency drives we achieved a significant 9.3% decrease in energy cost per occupied room during the second quarter even while the hotel grew occupancy and revenues.
As we continue implementing these energy savings programs we are targeting returns well in excess of 20% of our invested capital.
Let me turn now to Bryan to review our liquidity and guidance.
Bryan please go ahead.
Thank you Marc.
I will now turn to our balance sheet and provide an overview of our liquidity and overall leverage profile.
With respect to liquidity Sunstone ended the second quarter with approximately $272 million of cash including $72.3 million of restricted cash.
Adjusting for the acquisition of the Boston Park Plaza which was completed on July 2 our pro forma unrestricted cash balance at the end of the quarter would have been approximately $65 million.
In addition to our cash position we have an undrawn $150 million line of credit and 12 unencumbered hotels.
During 2012 these unencumbered hotels collectively generated approximately $57 million of EBITDA.
At the end of the quarter and pro forma for the acquisition of the Boston Park Plaza we had $1.5 billion of consolidated debt and preferred securities which includes 100% of the $233 million mortgage secured by the Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
Adjusting for the debt attributed to our minority partner on this asset our pro-rated debt balance is currently $1.47 billion which consist entirely of well-staggered non-crossed mortgage debt and preferred securities.
Our debt has a weighted average term to maturity of 4.1 years and an average interest rate of 4.9%.
Our variable rate debt as a percentage of total debt stands at 29% and we do not have any debt maturities through early 2015.
As Ken noted and as evidenced by our reintroduction of well-supported quarterly cash dividends we are comfortable with our current leverage profile and our ability to continue to achieve our long-term credit milestones.
Consistent with the track record we've built over the past several years we expect to further improve our balance sheet and increase our financial flexibility in a methodical and shareholder-friendly manner as the lodging cycle continues.
Now turning to guidance.
A full reconciliation of our current guidance can be found on Pages 17 to 19 of our supplemental as well as in our earnings release.
As noted with our major 2 000 renovations now complete and with a solid base of group rooms on the books we expect to see an acceleration in RevPAR growth for the remainder of the year.
For the third quarter we see RevPAR growing at a pace of 5% to 7%.
We expect third quarter adjusted EBITDA to come in between $66 million and $69 million and we expect third quarter adjusted FFO per diluted share to be between $0.27 and $0.29.
At the midpoint this indicates a 22% increase in FFO per diluted share as compared to the third quarter of 2012.
We tightened the range of our full year 2013 guidance to reflect our first half results.
Our updated full year 2013 adjusted EBITDA guidance now ranges from $235 million to $245 million and our updated full year adjusted FFO guidance now ranges from $0.91 to $0.97 per diluted share.
Today's guidance reflects our ownership period of all completed 2013 transactions and does not include any potential future transactions.
With that I'll now turn the call back over to Ken to wrap up.
Thank you very much Bryan.
I have just a few closing remarks before opening up the call to questions.
Demand for lodging has been resilient throughout the current cycle despite persistent macroeconomic uncertainty and various industry-specific bumps along the way.
As demand has improved many of our hotels are now operating at or above prior peak occupancy levels and are approaching prior peak RevPAR and EBITDA production.
Yet prior peak is merely a data point.
As I noted fundamentals for our business point toward continued growth in both revenues and profits over the next several years.
Group pace and booking productivity are improving.
Business transient demand remains very strong.
New property level innovation and efficiencies are driving continued margin expansion and industry-wide supply growth is expected to remain low for years to come.
In short the fundamentals point toward meaningful growth in hotel revenues cash flows and asset values over the next several years.
We're pleased with the progress we've made over the last several years and as we remain firmly focused on improving our portfolio quality and scale while gradually deleveraging our balance sheet.
That said I'd like to emphasize that while making smart well-timed investments and finance decisions are fundamental to our business as a hotel owner our success is largely dependent on how our team creates value in our hotels after we acquire them.
Beyond just investing in financing proactive portfolio management creative and at times fanatical asset management as well as systematic and disciplined design and construction management are all key focus areas and core competencies of the Sunstone team.
With each of our key disciplines well represented in my opinion the depth of the entire Sunstone team is one of our principal competitive advantages.
We thank you for taking the time to listen today and for your continued interest in Sunstone.
So with that let's open up the call to questions.
Laura please go ahead.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of David Loeb with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask about Boston which I understand some reluctance on your part to answer.
I'm curious about what the long-term vision is and how long it takes to get there.
But also in the near term as you apply your fanatical asset management at times fanatical management is there much you can do there? And we've seen the 8-K with the results of that hotel through the past few years and it looks like Highgate has done a tremendous job of increasing the margins there.
Is there much more of that to go in the near term? David great question.
I'm going to hand it over to Marc Hoffman our fanatical head of asset management to take that one.
Thanks David.
Thanks Ken.
Well in terms of the long-term plan for Boston Park Plaza while we acquired Boston Park Plaza at an attractive going-in yield we see broad ranging opportunities to enhance competitiveness and value of this well-located asset.
We are actively framing out comprehensive plans now.
We clearly will be looking at -- I mean if you look at the hotel as it looks today it's a 2.5 to 2.75 star hotel.
We're going to take that position to 3.25 to 3.75 in general.
The hotel from a group standpoint is not competitive to the other 4 major group boxes in Boston.
We will clearly make it competitive.
The plaza -- the Boston Park Plaza generates significant in-place cash flow.
Our immediate business plan for the hotel entails the buildout and leasing up of 43 000 square feet of ground-level and below-grade retail spaces which predominantly front Arlington and Park Plaza.
As Ken talked about we plan to invest significantly in mechanical electrical plumbing heating cooling structural to really create a much more comfortable environment for the customers.
Longer term we may undertake a more comprehensive repositioning to further enhance the hotel's competitiveness.
We're looking through that now developing business cases et cetera.
As for Highgate yes the hotel has done a very very good job.
We believe that with the renovations there are revenue and profitability enhancements that will occur due to the hotel being held back in some way from growth due to its current positioning.
David this is Ken.
I'll just jump in and just sum it up by saying the hotel today lacks a cohesive experience that modern-day business travelers are looking for.
Our plan is going to be to tie the rooms product the public spaces the meeting spaces together in a much more competitive and appealing way and it's going to take us some time as we said on the last call to establish that complete positioning plan.
But over the next quarter or so you'll hear a lot more about it.
Research Division</strong> And what do you think the NOI potential is from the retail? I believe we may have talked about that in the last call.
We see the retail as potentially generating north of $1.5 million to $2 million.
Our next question comes from the line of Ian Weissman with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
John you gave some interesting color on the current deal environment and the cap rates and the like.
You talked a little bit more about your acquisition strategy.
You've had a lot of success on the sales side.
What are the thoughts about continuing that process and looking to continue to call your portfolio at these levels? We have sold several hotels over the past 18 24 months and really have sold off a good portion of the lowest end of our portfolio.
While we have debated analyzed additional sales right now it's not a top priority.
We will continue to receive inbound overtures for assets and evaluate them.
But right now I think the portfolio is in very good shape and I don't think this position is going to be a primary strategy of ours in the very near term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just 2 other questions.
It sounds like you're still shielding I think my number is correct $43 million through NOLs which are gone next year.
Does that put the dividend at a run rate of about $0.12 a share per quarter? Is that right? So David -- I'm sorry Ian this is Ken.
As I mentioned we had about $43 million of NOLs this year which will be fully utilized in 2013.
We also had several million dollars of distributions on the Series A as well as the Series C which will go away.
So just roundly think about it as $50 million of nonrecurring tax shield in 2013 that won't be in place in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And finally Bryan just to clarify a little bit on the comparable RevPAR growth that you're quoting for the quarter what would be the dollar amount that we should assume for RevPAR in the third quarter that would be comparable to the third quarter of last year? Ian give me 1 second while we -- so you're looking at the nominal RevPAR amount? Research Division</strong> Right.
If you're saying you're going to do let's say 6% RevPAR growth in the third quarter what's that comparable growth what's the actual dollar RevPAR number for the third quarter range? So that would be in the 140 to 150 range.
Our next question comes from the line of Smedes Rose with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you just a little more on group.
What percent of your group bookings for 2014 are on your books now? And I guess where would you -- is it in line with where you would expect it to be now? Yes.
Smedes so 2014 group on the books are about where they would normally be in a typical year.
We've got a number of big hotels that start the year off with between 85% and 95% of their group rooms on the books.
So we're pacing for 2014 which means that we're up a little bit for 2014 in terms of pacing.
And so group rooms on the books for the larger hotels are call it 75% or so for 2014.
The smaller hotels cross over the year at about 50%.
And so there's a lot more in the year for the year still.
So Marc do you want to add more color there? Yes I mean the total percentage of our rooms for the entire portfolio now is at 90%.
We're in very good shape compared to where we are typically.
So we've got 90% of our rooms on the books.
We have very little to fill in for the remainder of the year.
For '14.
I thought he was asking about '13 I'm sorry.
Research Division</strong> No for 2014 what percent of the rooms are on the books group rooms? Just give us a second on that one please.
We have that information.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess while you're looking through I'd just be interested in your thoughts about New York for 2014 I guess in light of your properties here and thinking about the supply coming along and the kind of thoughts you have on that would be helpful as well.
Sure.
Our 2 hotels in Times Square are very well-located hotels.
We've got -- the Doubletree is located right at 47th and Broadway with fairly large suites.
And so the hotel has performed well in spite of new supply.
Similar story with the Hilton in Times Square where you've got high-quality rooms products well located.
They compare pretty favorably to the new supply that's coming on especially in the lower locations within the city.
That said supply will be a factor.
We're going to see a 15% increase in supply in the Times Square market through 2015.
This is from 2012 through 2015 to roughly 30 000-plus group rooms they're plus hotels rooms.
And in the broader New York market you'll see a 20% increase in supply.
So no question about it.
Supply will overall dampen the demand the overall growth rate in RevPAR for the New York market.
We do feel that our hotels will perform well in the face of that supply relative to some of the other hotels that exist.
Some of the other things that -- and we called this out on the last call as well.
Some of the other things that will affect our RevPAR growth rate for the 2 products that we have in Times Square is just the change in the Hilton Honors system.
I think you may be aware that they changed the point system.
Materially devalued the points program across the board but specifically impacted our 2 hotels.
And so while HHonors has been a fairly significant driver of room nights at our hotels in the New York market that change will also further impact and has further impacted RevPAR growth in those hotels in the second quarter.
We'll we see moderation in demand overall.
I'm going to shift back over to Marc for the question on the overall group rooms.
Yes Smedes.
I'm sorry about that.
I thought you said '13.
In terms of '14 we have 52% of our room nights -- group room nights on the books and that's the strongest number we've had over the last 4 years at this point.
And again for some of the larger hotels you're closer to 75% given the fact that they booked more of their group rooms in advance.
And just to follow up on Ian Ian your question on the nominal adjusted RevPAR for Q3 '12 was $141.
So that would translate into a range for Q3 2013 about $145 or $150.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Woronka with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can you just remind us kind of the normal tailwind you might get from some of these renovations? I mean you talked about the Four Hotels specifically and is it 3 quarters 4 quarters or more than that? So I don't know that there's a normal tailwind on any renovation property.
But certainly for example in Chicago we would expect to have a very lasting tailwind given the nature of the repositioning and the comprehensive nature of the renovation program that we employ there as well as the rebranding and all the other changes we made there.
Hyatt Newport Beach is a similar story where we really changed the character of the hotel made it far more competitive from a leisure standpoint in particular added a lot of interesting features that are pulling in a lot of guests over the course of the summer months in particular.
So for example Hyatt Chicago RevPAR in the month of July was up 21%.
Hyatt Newport Beach RevPAR was up 13%.
In Times Square for a lot of the factors that we were just talking about in terms of just overall market trends and changes in the HHonors system et cetera was up less.
It was up about 3.5% for July.
So those are kind of 2 ends of the spectrum.
We would still expect that the overall I guess aura of the new rooms product for example would certainly provide a competitive advantage for hotels for several years.
It would be our expectation and a repositioning program should last even longer than several years.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then I think what I heard earlier is that you do have some renovations coming up in back half '13 early '14.
But should we think about virtually no EBITDA disruption next year? Chris John Arabia here.
I would say it's fairly routine.
Most of these rooms renovations will be able to get into the rooms on very low periods.
And so instead of talking about many millions of dollars of renovation disruption I think we're literally talking about a couple of hundred thousand dollars of renovation disruption which quite honestly for a portfolio our size is really routine and I really wouldn't model anything.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then can you just remind us how much Boston Park Plaza is underpunching on RevPAR? And I know you haven't disclosed your plans yet but where do you see that next year just kind of on a normal -- from normal operating basis? Yes.
So Boston Park Plaza year-to-date RevPAR first quarter was down almost about 16%.
Second quarter was down 6%.
So year to date it's down roughly 9%.
We do see overall revenue as I mentioned in our prepared remarks for that hotel increasing this year by roughly 6%.
Going forward we see the hotel absent any repositioning program we see the hotel performing with the market.
2014 is a very strong year for Boston overall with very strong citywide.
So we're projecting fairly significant high single-digit growth rate in RevPAR for our Boston hotels in general in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one last question on Boston.
I mean how important -- as you think about possibilities for the hotel I mean how important is key money and really how many brand -- potential brand options do you think you have given what's already up there? There are several brand options.
I'll tell you that branding the hotel today is not plan A.
We like the idea of having a fee simple piece of real estate that's well located within the Back Bay market.
Obviously runs at a very high occupancy.
It's obviously a very productive asset in its current state.
So our view is that any key money from the various brands that may be interested in occupying this particular asset is probably not going to based on our current math be warranted in the context of what we can do absent the brand fees.
Our next question comes from the line of Joshua Attie with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Ken is the repositioning of the Park Plaza a 2014 event do you think? The repositioning of the Park Plaza is not going to be a 2014 event in all likelihood.
We'll finish up our overall positioning plan this year.
Likely the first initiation of that would be in the winter months of the latter part of 2014 if we started that early.
Our view once again is we want to take a very very measured approach here make sure we've got the right formula and measure twice and cut once as they say.
Research Division</strong> And separately on the dividend it's been a long time since you paid a dividend.
Can you just kind of remind us of what your philosophy is? Is it to pay out the minimum and retain a maximum amount of free cash flow to grow the company? Or would you like to provide investors with a certain amount of income? I guess which is important to you and how do you think about it? Sure.
And we could spend a lot of time on this one because our view is that as a capital-intensive company with fairly specific portfolio and balance sheet objectives that paying out more than the required amount for dividends is probably ill-advised.
I think there are probably times in the cycle when paying out more than the required amount would make sense.
And you just heard us talk about on our prepared remarks the fact that during a cyclical downturn for example our efforts today are preparing the company so that we hopefully will be in a position to support our dividend through all phases of the cycle.
So there could be a scenario where a minimal as we talked about a base dividend is paid through all phases.
But as we sit here today during the growth phase of the cycle our portfolio and balance sheet objectives takes precedence over overpaying on the dividend fund if you will.
We look at dividend as one component of total return.
If you look at what our company has returned to our investors over the past couple of years through just consistent execution of our strategy I think we've validated that statement pretty well.
Research Division</strong> And just one more maybe for John.
Do you think that Sunstone is a net buyer or a net seller of assets over the next sort of 6 to 12 months? It sounds like you called a lot of what's in the portfolio that you wanted to sell and it also sounds like you feel like acquisition pricing is a little expensive.
So I guess when you put it all together do you see more opportunities on the buy side or on the sales side? As we sit here today -- and by the way Josh that could change over time.
But as we sit here today I think if we were all to make a bet we would say that we'll probably be a net buyer of assets from what we see right now than a net seller.
Our next question comes from the line of Ryan Meliker with MLV &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but I was just hoping to get a little bit of color on your outlook for the Renaissance in D.C.
Obviously you got the Marriott Marquis coming in next year just a couple of blocks away or so.
How was group pacing looking for that asset in D.C.? I know you're coming off renovation now.
The numbers are looking pretty good here to date.
Just any color would be helpful.
Sure.
Washington D.C as you know is having -- as a market is having a fairly weak year.
Our hotel the Renaissance which is located right at 9th and K is having a very very -- one of the strongest years that hotel has had in terms of overall group rooms and rates.
So we're having a terrific year this year.
Next year you'll see a relatively soft citywide year once again in Washington D.C.
And of course you will see the Marquis come on to the market.
So no secret.
We would expect moderated trends for our D.C.
property next year.
You may actually see RevPAR flat to even slightly down next year although we're working on our budgeted numbers right now.
Long term love the asset love the location within the market.
You've -- perhaps you're familiar with the redevelopment of the former convention center site that's right at the front door of that hotel several billion dollar redevelopment that pulls the core of the D.C.
market to our front door.
So we're very very excited about the long-term prospects for that hotel.
Our next question comes from the line of Lukas Hartwich with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Ken can you give us an update of where you think we are in the lodging cycle? Sure.
I can tell you what we know and then I'll tell you what we think.
We're 45 months or so into the lodging recovery.
It began about December of 2009.
We see a lot of indicators that would imply that this cycle will be longer than some of the prior cycles we've seen.
You probably heard us talk and I know I've heard others talk about the average lodging cycle from peak -- from trough to peak having a duration of roughly 7 years.
There's no such thing as the average lodging cycle.
And certainly this cycle has all the earmarks of being a more prolonged recovery.
So the best I can tell you is we're in the middle stages of the cycle.
We are in the phase of the cycle where occupancies are at levels where operators can push rate much more aggressively.
We're in the phase of the cycle where operational efficiencies and the fact that demand is being absorbed by rate more than occupied rooms will ultimately result in continued growth and profitability.
So I can't tell you how much longer the cycle will last.
We do model a cycle internally that based on all the factors that are in front of us extends on for a number of additional years from where we are today.
Our next question comes from the line of Nikhil Bhalla with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Ken I just wanted to get some color on what you think your dry powder capacity is at this point in time for additional acquisitions? Sure.
As Bryan walked through the numbers we utilized much of our dry powder after the quarter closed with the acquisition of the Boston Park Plaza.
We have roughly $65 million of unrestricted cash on the balance sheet and $150 million undrawn revolver.
We also have 12 hotels that have no leverage on them.
So you can quantify if we were inclined to take on leverage investment capacity in the several hundred million range.
As we said before our desired approach in growing our portfolio will be through equity-funded acquisitions where we can acquire hotels at discount to NAV using our equity when it's priced above NAV.
And so right now I think that would be the governing factor in terms of acquisitions rather than balance sheet capacity.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just following up a little bit more on the issue mentioned with the Hilton reward points could you just frame the issue for us a little bit more in terms of how much was your demand actually coming through that in your New York assets? And what exactly is happening? Because of what you think is some weakness ahead? Sure.
So our Hilton our 2 Hilton properties we have the Hilton in Times Square and we have the Doubletree in Times Square.
They're both operated by Highgate and they both run a very high occupancy strategy.
They run roughly 98% occupancy throughout the course of the year.
Much of the strategy was predicated in the past and in part now continues to be predicated on utilization of HHonors redemptions.
And the way that that works as you're probably familiar a loyalist to the Hilton program would build up points and at a certain point will redeem those points for hotel nights [ph].
Given the location and the high rate of our hotels in New York they've always been in the higher categories in terms of redemption requirements.
Earlier this year Hilton changed the program where they more or less devalued the points across the board and came up with new rate categories.
The Doubletree Times Square used to be a $50 000 point redemption category.
It's moved up to 70 000 during most of the year and then 95 000 points during the remainder of the year.
So it ultimately costs a heck of a lot more from the Hilton Honors member to stay in that hotel.
As far as the overall percentage of the rooms sold in Q2 of 2012 the Doubletree did roughly 23% of its business 24% of its business through HHonors redemptions.
In 2013 post-change in program it did roughly 11% of its business.
So significant change in the overall business running through the HHonors system.
The team has done a very good job of filling up the hotel with high-rated business nonetheless but that is one component of demand that has changed somewhat.
The Hilton Times Square was less pronounced.
In fact you didn't see a material falloff.
It was a -- Hilton Honors redemptions was a smaller component of demand.
HHonors did roughly 10% of the business and the Hilton Times Square dropped under roughly 9% this year just on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
And Q2 is the only quarter where we have a true valid year-over-year comparison because they just enacted the change.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just a final question for Marc.
You talked about group demand going into next year you have about 52% of that already on your book.
At this point would you expect that to accelerate given all the renovations that have happened in your portfolio for -- going into next year? Or do you think your pace of demand will pick up over the next few quarters it's going to be somewhat similar to what it's been in the past? Yes I think what we would expect is that our non-renovated at the non -- the non-Four-hotel [ph] portfolio that we would continue to see the acceleration that has occurred over the last year or 2 as we leave behind trough pricing and trough demand and we would expect the improvements in the Four Hotels we recently renovated to accelerate and see greater demand at those hotels.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Donnelly.
LLC Research Division</strong> I got on late so just maybe a few follow-up questions.
Just Ken given that we are in something of an extended lodging cycle in your view and maybe because supply growth is low is it fair to say that you're not expecting -- or you are expecting I should say a longer economic cycle than usual and that recession risk will remain low? Jeff I think that is a good way to characterize our view.
We see this -- look the recovery thus far from a macroeconomic perspective has been relatively tepid.
Jobs are still not where they would otherwise be if you look back at prior cycles when you're 4 years into recovery.
There are a lot of factors that have moderated overall economic growth.
We think those very same factors will serve to prolong this recovery and will ultimately prevent the recovery from getting too overheated and will likely result in pushout of any cyclical downturn.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I apologize if you mentioned this on Park Plaza but do you have an aspirational comp set for that hotel maybe where you are today and where you'd like to be? Yes.
I think if you look at the comp set today it is very much the comp set that we expect to be.
The difference is we want to pull up the bottom.
So our concept today the Westin Copley Plaza (sic) [Place] the Hilton Back Bay Marriott Copley Place and Sheraton where we want to do is we want to bring up the bottom.
We are obviously the bottom dragger on that.
And if we bring up the bottom we can see terrific results and a great payback on our investment.
LLC Research Division</strong> When you look ahead do you think that you can be on par with them from a RevPAR index or you're just trying to narrow that gap? No.
We're just trying to narrow that gap.
We don't believe we can be on par with them at all.
I think we'll see an index that we're high relative to the comps and occupancy and slightly lower based on ADR.
But Marc is exactly right.
Our modeling which shows being in the low to mid-90s.
And we didn't underwrite it that way.
We didn't underwrite it assuming that we can get close to 30 million when we started with that group.
That's why we like the opportunity so well.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just one last question.
I'm just curious if the brand has given you guys any sort of updated view on the impact of the Affordable Care Act? So they haven't.
Really the information has been fairly limited.
I will tell you we've done some research on our own portfolio on the Affordable Care Act and one thing that we were able to hang our hat on is that within our portfolio based on a fairly comprehensive survey roughly 85% to 90% of our employee base is currently offered health care.
And so with that in mind you've got a wide uptake already on health care benefits.
So we see that as representing probably -- meaning that the affordable health care will probably have a fairly limited impact on our overall P&amp;L.
Beyond that we don't have great color from the brands or from anybody else who's been analyzing this.
And once again from our own perspective we've conducted our own analysis and it does imply at this point at least that the impact will not be significant although it will be noteworthy.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Q2 2013 conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Sunstone Hotel Investors Third Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded today November 12 2013.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Bryan Giglia Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
By now you should have all received a copy of our third quarter earnings release and our supplemental which we released yesterday.
If you do not yet have a copy you can access them on our website at www.sunstonehotels.com.
Before we begin this call I'd like to remind everyone that this call contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties including those described in our prospectuses 10-Ks 10-Qs and other filings with the SEC which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
We caution you to consider those factors in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
We also note that this call may contain non-GAAP financial information including EBITDA adjusted EBITDA FFO adjusted FFO and hotel EBITDA margins.
We are providing that information as a supplement to information prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
With us on the call today are Ken Cruse Chief Executive Officer; John Arabia President; Marc Hoffman Chief Operating Officer; and Robert Springer Chief Investment Officer.
After our prepared remarks we will be available to answer your questions.
Before I turn the call over to Ken I'd like to remind everyone that with the beginning of this year we adopted calendar reporting quarters for our 10 Marriott managed hotels similar to the rest of our portfolio which also reports on a calendar basis.
Last year reporting for our Marriott managed hotels was based on a 13-period fiscal calendar.
As a result of this calendar shift our revenues net income adjusted EBITDA and adjusted FFO for Q3 2013 include 8 additional days of operations for our Marriott managed hotels as compared with Q3 2012.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Ken.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Bryan and thank you all for joining us.
Given the late timing of our call and since we have already preannounced our quarterly results we'll keep our prepared remarks very brief today.
I'll quickly walk through some high points on operations and I'll provide a status update on our recent Boston Park Plaza investment as well as our pending acquisition of the Hyatt Regency San Francisco.
Finally I'll conclude our prepared remarks with a discussion on leading indicators before opening up the call to questions.
First with respect to the third quarter our results exceeded our prior guidance in all areas.
This was a model quarter in many ways.
Our hotels achieved strong revenue growth in both rooms and food and beverage and our margins expanded materially due to disciplined expense controls at both the departmental and G&amp;A level.
Specifically our comparable RevPAR grew at a healthy 7.6% while our same-store hotel EBITDA margin expanded by 220 basis points.
This strong hotel level performance led to a better than 30% increase in our adjusted FFO per diluted share as compared to the third quarter of 2012.
We're now seeing solid trends from a broad range of demand segments.
The ongoing resilience of the U.S.
business travelers our largest component of demand is now being augmented by strengthening group booking activity and positive corporate account negotiations.
Moreover as expected our recently renovated hotels are generally growing at rates above our portfolio average as we trade renovation displacement for outside's growth.
Specifically for the third quarter our Renaissance Westchester delivered nearly 9% RevPAR growth.
Our Hyatt Newport Beach delivered nearly 11% RevPAR growth and our Hyatt Chicago delivered better than 12% RevPAR growth.
Additionally our Renaissance Washington D.C.
which we renovated in 2012 delivered nearly 43% RevPAR growth in the third quarter.
This exceptional growth was achieved in the context of a relatively soft overall market in Washington D.C.
Breaking down the components of our third quarter RevPAR our top line growth was fairly well balanced between rate and occupancy.
Our average daily rate grew by $5.56 to $179.32 while our occupancy increased by 350 basis points to 84.9%.
We realized strong occupancy gains in both our Renaissance Washington D.C.
and our Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
Also our 3 Chicago properties performed very well with RevPAR up a combined 8.7% over the third quarter of 2012.
As many of you are aware thus far this cycle group room rates have not grown as quickly as our other demand segments such as business transient.
Recently we've seen improving trends on both group room rates and group ancillary spend.
For example our overall group rate increased by 4.3% in the third quarter which was slightly better than the average transient rate growth of 3.2%.
Also our food and beverage spend for group room increased by a solid 7.9% to $102.72 in the third quarter.
As we look forward to 2014 our group booking pace for all 28 hotels is positive 3.1% which is similar to the overall group pace we are seeing in 2013 and represents a nice improvement over where we stood last quarter on 2014 group pace.
21 of our 28 hotels are showing pace growth in excess of 10% in 2014.
I should also note that while 2014 group bookings into our Renaissance Washington D.C.
are solid by historical standards as the hotel is having an exceptionally strong group year in 2013 with the group business up 22% the hotel's pace in 2014 is down as compared to 2013.
On the positive side our 4 hotels that underwent major renovations in 2013 are now showing 24% growth in group pace for 2014.
I'll spend a minute on transient demand trends.
Our portfolio is comprised primarily of urban business hotels.
Accordingly more than 60% of our overall demand comes individual nongroup travelers.
We refer to this demand segment as transient demand.
Individual business travelers comprise the bulk of our transient demand segment with high-rated premium transient comprising 16% of our total demand.
At the other end of the spectrum government transient business which has been a focus lately comprises only about 3% of our overall demand.
While political tactics such as sequestration and the recent federal government shutdown will have a short-term effect on our operations these impacts are primarily isolated background noise in our opinion.
Let me put some things in perspective.
In the third quarter our government business was down 18% at an average rate of just $142.
At the same time our premium transient business was up 15% at an average rate of $247.
In short in spite of the childish behavior in Washington D.C.
the real engines of our economy American corporations are doing their part to drive continued growth.
And in the process businesses continue to send travelers on the road in record numbers.
Turning now to operational efficiencies.
As I noted our operators did an exceptional job controlling costs in the third quarter.
Our rooms' departmental expense per occupied rooms declined by 0.6% during the quarter as our operators continued to streamline operations.
Additionally our hotels benefited from disciplined cost containment efforts in both G&amp;A and energy expenses.
Over the past 3 quarters we've implemented new energy efficiency programs in roughly 1/4 of our portfolio.
These initiatives have helped to reduce our quarterly energy costs with portfolio-wide cost per occupied room declining by 6.9% in the third quarter.
As we continue implementing these energy savings programs we are targeting returns in excess of 20% on our invested capital.
As I said clearly this was a model quarter in many ways and we thank our operators and our team for the solid execution across-the-board.
Moving on to recent and pending transactions.
Improving the quality and scale of our portfolio while gradually deleveraging our balance sheet in a shareholder-friendly way has been and remains our core strategic objective.
We've recently either executed on or are in the process of executing on various transactions that advance this objective.
For example in the third quarter we acquired a well located but undercapitalized 1 053-room hotel called the Boston Park Plaza.
When we announced this deal we noted a broad range of value-add opportunities.
And over the past several months we've made good progress toward capitalizing on these opportunities.
For example our near-term goal of leasing the hotel's roughly 43 000 square feet of vacant retail space is moving forward well.
We are finalizing terms with a high-end restaurant operator and a luxury retailer and we are negotiating with 2 state-of-the-art fitness operators.
Each of these leases will generate a new stream of profitability for the hotel and importantly will serve to enhance and complement the overall guest experience at this property.
We expect to have all retail tenants in place during 2014.
As we've previously discussed the Boston Park Plaza hotel has not been maintained to a level that we believe will maximize its competitiveness or our return on investment over the long run.
For example as the hotel currently ranks 68th on TripAdvisor among 77 Boston area hotels we see improving the hotel's appeal to higher-rated travelers as a clear and compelling opportunity to drive value.
Accordingly we've developed a comprehensive repositioning plan for the asset which will begin with the completion of various infrastructure projects starting this year.
The Phase 1 infrastructure work will entail materially improving the building's heating and cooling elevators roofs and façade.
Additionally we have already addressed what was previously one of the top complaints by implementing a new state-of-the-art Internet connectivity overlay.
We believe that by simply addressing these basic services we will meaningfully improve the guest experience at the hotel.
In addition to our Phase 1 infrastructure work we are preparing for a more comprehensive rooms and public space renovation during the winter and early spring months of 2015.
Through this renovation we intend to embrace the hotel's historic character while creating a fresher cleaner and more functional guest environment defined by elements of modern and contemporary style.
While we believe the effect of our planned renovation will be transformative it's important to note that the overall process and scope of the renovation will not differ meaningfully from our other typical rooms and public space renovations we've completed in a number of our hotels over the last several years.
To be clear we do not intend to take this hotel offline to complete the renovation work.
That said given the high occupancy rates of the hotel even in the seasonally slower winter months this renovation will entail a trade-off of some short-term displacement for what we expect will be a profound improvement in the hotel's long-term competitiveness.
We're budgeting roughly $30 million for Phase 1 improvements and roughly $55 million for Phase 2 improvements.
Turning now to our pending acquisition of the 802-room Hyatt Regency San Francisco.
We're purchasing this well-located fee-simple [ph] hotel for $262.5 million or approximately $327 000 per key.
Our gross purchase price equates to a 14.2x multiple on 2014 forecasted hotel EBITDA of $18.5 million and a better than 6% capitalization rate on 2014 forecasted hotel net operating income.
This acquisition represents our first foray into the high-barrier [indiscernible] downtown San Francisco hotel market.
The hotel's location on Market Street directly across the street from the Ferry Terminal Building and in the center of the financial district gives it a strong and well-protected competitive advantage.
The acquisition will be funded with cash proceeds from our recent common share equity offering.
We will not incur or assume any debt in connection with this acquisition.
As a result this acquisition will both improve the quality scale and geographic diversity of our portfolio and will also materially enhance our credit profile and financial flexibility.
The hotel is anticipated to benefit from San Francisco's favorable supply-and-demand dynamic.
And importantly there is over 3 million square feet of new high-end office space under construction within a 5-block radius of the property.
In terms of relative performance we expect the Hyatt Regency San Francisco to finish the year with RevPAR of approximately $208 an increase of roughly 11% over 2012.
San Francisco's exceptional combination of low unemployment high business growth and a strong citywide calendar indicates the market will grow at a nation-leading pace for at least the next several years.
We will complete a previously planned rooms renovation beginning in January of 2014.
Given the seasonal timing of this renovation we expect just $1 million to $2 million of renovation-related displacement in the first quarter of 2014.
This displacement is reflected in our 2014 forecasted hotel EBITDA of $18.5 million.
Subject to normal closing contingencies risks and uncertainties we expect to close the acquisition in early December.
I'll wrap up by discussing forward indicators.
In short we see a lot of green lights heading into 2014 and beyond.
Constructive industry fundamentals specifically high industry occupancies continued moderate growth in both group and transient demand and historically low additions to new hotel supply give us every indication that our industry will continue to experience moderate improvements in top line growth and strong improvements in profitability over the next several years.
Business travelers continue to hit the road in record numbers and the strength in business traveler is now being augmented by improving group activity.
Year-to-date on a same-store basis our hotels have booked more group rooms than during any other year dating back to 2007.
While industry fundamentals are constructive Sunstone's specific factors should lead to above industry growth.
Specifically our newly renovated hotels will be comparing against periods of significant displacement in the first half of 2014 and as our mid- and late-year 2013 acquisitions will contribute a full year of earnings in 2014.
To sum up we believe now is a great time to own a well-renovated geographically-diverse portfolio of institutional-grade hotels.
And with that we thank you for your time today and we'll now open up the call to questions.
Operator please go ahead.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question will come from the line of Lukas Hartwich from Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two of your 3 acquisitions this year have been pretty large hotels.
I'm just curious if there's a strategy there or is that just a coincidence? I would say that our strategy is generally unchanged but we look to own institutional-grade hotels.
We do strive to acquire hotels that generate at least $5 million of EBITDA.
So by definition those are the larger properties.
We will acquire hotels that generate slightly less than that if they're a part of a market complex where we can leverage our asset management expertise across a variety of hotels like what we did in Chicago or similarly in earlier this year in New Orleans where we acquired a relatively small hotel but it's adjacent to a preexisting investment in the market.
So all in all no I wouldn't say there's a shift in our strategy toward 800- 900- or 1 000-room hotels.
We like the idea of owning business transient hotels in strong markets on good street corners.
Those hotels could be 300 rooms or 400 rooms or as was the case with 2 of our acquisitions this year somewhat larger than that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then can you just give us an update on your disposition strategy? Sure.
At this point we've got maybe 2 to 4 hotels within our portfolio that would qualify for a disposition as the cycle matures.
Our goal in terms of harvesting gains within our portfolio would be to sell some of the smaller geographically-isolated hotels especially those hotels that as we've done in the past generate RevPAR that's in the double digits instead of the triple digits.
At this point we do not have any hotels on the market but we will look to sell again 2 to 4 hotels over the next call it 1 to 3 years.
Your next question will come from the line of Nikhil Bhalla from FBR.
This is Weston Bloomer asking a question on behalf of Nikhil Bhalla.
My question regards to the relatively soft New York City performance in 3Q despite renovations.
I was hoping you could go and provide more color as to why that may be? I know 3 of your 4 renovations did specifically well in the first half while the Hilton Times Square came in a little lower.
And then any additional color on the New York City market will be great.
Sure.
Thank you.
Good question actually.
New York has been a big focus of ours for quite some time.
You're right our hotels performed basically at the market.
If you look at the 2 on average we ended up with a slightly above market performance at the DoubleTree Times Square which is located right there at 47th and Broadway and a slightly below market performance at the Hilton.
Most of the performance softness that we saw in our New York properties was related to a change in the Hilton Honors' regime where basically Hilton Honors' points were devalued significantly earlier in this year.
That change hit our DoubleTree more so than it did the Hilton.
But either way both of those hotels were impacted by a material reduction in HHonors' redemptions which was part of our strategy.
Other than that we're seeing generally market performance for those 2 hotels as the year progresses and we would expect that the Hilton will continue to perform well relative to its comp set given its newly renovated status.
Gentlemen there are no further questions at this time.
I will turn the conference back over to Ken for closing remarks.
Excellent.
Look we appreciate everyone's time today and we look forward to speaking with many of you over the next few days at the NIRI Conference.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and please disconnect your lines.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the fourth quarter and full year earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today Friday February 21 2014 at 9:00 a.m.
Pacific Standard Time.
I will now turn the presentation over to Bryan Giglia Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Sarah and good morning everyone.
By now you should have all received a copy of our fourth quarter earnings release and our supplemental which were released yesterday.
We also posted a new presentation that can be found on our website.
If you do not yet have a copy of any of these you can access them on our website at www.sunstonehotels.com.
Before we begin this call I'd like to remind everyone that this call contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties including those described in our prospectuses 10-Qs 10-Ks and other filings with the SEC which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
We caution you to consider those factors in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
We also note that this call may contain non-GAAP financial information including EBITDA adjusted EBITDA FFO adjusted FFO and hotel EBITDA margins.
We are providing that information as a supplement to information prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
With us on the call today are Ken Cruse Chief Executive Officer; John Arabia President; and Marc Hoffman Chief Operating Officer.
After our remarks we will be available to answer your questions.
Before I turn the call over to Ken I'd like to remind everyone that with the beginning of 2013 we adopted calendar quarter reporting period for our 10 Marriott managed hotels similar to the rest of our portfolio which also reports on a calendar basis.
In 2012 reporting for our Marriott managed hotels was based on a 13-period fiscal calendar.
As a result of this calendar shift our Q4 2013 revenues net income adjusted EBITDA and adjusted FFO have 20 less days than in Q4 2012.
Because of this comparison our Q4 -- our comparisons to Q4 2012 are not meaningful.
With that I'd like to now turn the call over to Ken.
Ken please go ahead.
Thanks Bryan and thank you all for joining us today.
On today's call I'll start by reviewing our fourth quarter and full year earnings report.
I'll then discuss some of our portfolio quality improvement plans and I'll highlight leading indicators for our portfolio.
Next John will discuss several finance initiatives aimed at improving our corporate flexibility and enhancing our total shareholder returns.
Following John's comments Marc will review our operations in detail and will highlight certain asset management initiatives.
Bryan will then go over our balance sheet liquidity and guidance for the first quarter and full year before I wrap up our prepared remarks with a discussion on our priorities for 2014 and beyond.
To begin our portfolio continued to perform reasonably well in the fourth quarter.
Ongoing improvements in demand coupled with solid growth from many of our newly acquired and recently renovated hotels offset by isolated negative events such as the government shutdown and softness in Chicago and New York resulted in moderate top line growth in the fourth quarter.
Our comparable hotel RevPAR grew by 3.5% over the fourth quarter 2012 which was in the midpoint of our guidance range.
Our comparable ADR grew by $2.80 to $188.01 while our occupancy increased by 150 basis points to 77.3%.
We achieved significant occupancy gains on our Renaissance Washington D.C.
our Hyatt Regency Newport Beach and our Hyatt Regency San Francisco.
Our moderate top line growth to push our adjusted EBITDA and adjusted FFO per diluted share to the high end of our guidance range.
I should reiterate that as Bryan noted our absolute comparisons to Q4 2012 are somewhat distorted.
Specifically while our absolute margin figures imply a 90-basis-point reduction our Q4 hotel EBITDA margins absolute margin comparisons were impacted by several unique and one-time factors in the fourth quarter.
Specifically in addition to the Marriott calendar shift our fourth quarter was impacted by roughly $650 000 of full year 2013 real estate tax increases which comped over $1.3 million of full year 2012 real estate tax credits.
Taking out the noise we estimate that our normalized hotel margins would've improved by roughly 50 basis points in the fourth quarter.
Shifting to the full year as details of the full year 2013 are provided in our release 10-K and supplemental.
I'll just touch on a couple of key takeaways from our report.
First as with our fourth quarter our adjusted EBITDA and adjusted FFO per diluted share once again came in at the high end of our guidance range while our RevPAR growth rate was 4.5%.
This was not in itself record breaking.
Many of our operating statistics are at or approaching record levels.
Specifically on a same-store basis our portfolio occupancy rate is now 2 percentage points above prior peak and our portfolio of RevPAR is essentially at prior peak levels.
Turning to our balance sheet.
In 2013 we improved our consolidated debt plus preferred to total capitalization by nearly 9 percentage points from over 46% at the beginning of 2013 to just over 37% at the end of 2013.
And over the last 2 years we've reduced our leverage by 29 percentage points.
Notably we delivered total shareholder returns of 66% over this same time period.
This clearly underscores the fact that when carefully administered a lodging REIT can materially deleverage while delivering strong shareholder returns.
Shifting to our ongoing program to improve the quality and competitiveness of our portfolio I'll spend a moment on our 2014 capital expenditure plan.
Our capital investment budget calls for between $120 million and $140 million of capital investments into our hotels.
This is generally in line with our total portfolio investments over the last several years.
I'll comment now on some of our higher profile projects.
First with respect to the Boston Park Plaza our plan is to improve the competitiveness of this well-located but sorely undercapitalized hotel through a phased comprehensive renovation program.
Our repositioning plan aims to improve the overall guest experience from the current 2.5-star quality level to 3.5-star quality which we believe is the right competitive positioning for this hotel given its location in the Back Bay market and the relative positioning of other existing hotels in the market.
We believe our phasing plan will minimize renovation disruption during what we expect to be 3 very strong years in the Boston hotel market.
Not only will the hotel not be shut down during any portion of our renovations we in fact expect minimal revenue disruption ranging from just $1 million this year to a maximum of perhaps $3.5 million during the peak rooms renovation planned in the winter of 2016.
We've posted a more detailed summary of our renovation programs for both the Boston Park Plaza and the Hyatt Regency San Francisco on our website.
So I'll briefly summarize some key details today.
For Phase 1 of the Boston Park Plaza renovation we are in the process of investing roughly $18 million to $19 million to upgrade the hotel's elevator -- elevators façade roof and HVAC systems.
This phase directly addresses some of the primary guest complaints of the hotel including insufficient HVAC systems and poor Internet connectivity.
Phase 1 also entails work required to lease approximately 30 000 square feet or 75% of un- or under-occupied retail space located within the hotel.
We believe the tenants we've selected will nicely complement the guest experience we're in the process of creating.
Specifically we have executed new leases with Hermes who will occupy a 5 500-square-foot retail store on the first floor and with Strega restaurant group a local operator of leading Boston restaurants who will occupy a 5 900-square-foot restaurant on the first floor.
We are on pace to have both tenants up and running during the second half of 2014 and we are also in the process of finalizing lease terms with a national fitness operator to occupy approximately 19 000 square feet of additional leasable space on the first floor and basement level of the hotel.
We expect to have this tenant in place between Q4 2014 and Q1 of 2015.
Future renovation phases include reinvigorating the lobby and existing meeting space and converting second-level office space into new meeting space which is scheduled to begin in December of 2014 and be largely completed by March of 2015.
A year later we will complete a full albeit routine guest room and corridor renovation which is scheduled to begin in the fourth quarter of 2015 and continue into the second quarter of 2016.
Again we will complete most of the renovation work during the seasonally slow winter months resulting in very limited disruption of -- for a renovation of this scope.
Once completed we expect our total investment in this well-located high-quality fee-simple asset to be between $320 000 and $330 000 per key.
In the meantime we expect the hotel to deliver RevPAR growth of between 6.5% and 8.5% in 2014 after adjusting for expected renovation disruption.
Shifting to the Hyatt Regency San Francisco.
We acquired the Hyatt Regency San Francisco in December of 2013 with the game plan of immediately renovating the guest rooms to improve the competitive positioning of the hotel.
In January we began a $17 million rooms renovation which will address the hotel's guestrooms and suites bathrooms and corridors.
Given the seasonality patterns in San Francisco we expect just $1 million to $2 million of renovated [indiscernible] revenue displacement this year which was included in the estimated 24 -- 2014 EBITDA we provided when we announced the acquisition.
In fact the renovation has been underway for the last month and 96 new rooms have already been put back into service.
Even with the renovation in full swing RevPAR for the hotel has grown by 6.6% this year to date through February 17.
We are projecting between 5% and 7% RevPAR growth for the Hyatt Regency San Francisco in 2014.
Additionally we're in the process of investing approximately $5 million to renovate the DoubleTree Times Square hotel lobby and expand its fitness center.
We've also installed a new revenue-generating digital marquee sign which was up and running before the Super Bowl.
During 2014 we also expect to invest approximately $40 million to complete routine guestroom bath and public space renovations many of which began in the fourth quarter of 2013 and are expected to be substantially completed during the first quarter of 2014.
Specifically we will be completing the rooms and public space renovation of our Hilton Garden in Chicago by the end of March as well as a complete rooms renovation at the Renaissance Long Beach also in March.
We have completed the full rooms and ballroom renovation at the Renaissance Orlando and we plan to do a room's renovation and small [indiscernible] Lobby at our Hilton New Orleans.
We will also renovate the bathrooms and meeting space in our Renaissance Washington -- I'm sorry the ballroom and meeting space of our Renaissance Washington D.C.
throughout the year as space is available to minimize disruption.
Taken as a whole we expect to incur between $2 million and $4 million of renovation revenue disruption in 2014 well below the $10 million of revenue disruption we incurred in 2013.
Meanwhile as expected the hotels that we renovated in 2013 are generally ramping up well.
For example through February 17th our Hilton Times Square which was under renovation during the first quarter last year is showing a 53.7% increase in RevPAR year-to-date.
Finally we expect to invest approximately $15 million to $20 million throughout our portfolio in 2014 on return-focused energy and systems investments.
Our energy investments range from ECM motors in 75% of our hotel rooms income-automated guestroom temperature controls variable frequency drives to entire hotel LED light bulb replacements.
We're also installing low flow toilets and we're also doing complete chiller/boiler system overhauls in many of our hotels.
Through this initiative we are not only making our portfolio more green we expect to realize returns ranging from the low teens to upwards of 30% on these investments.
In part due to the energy projects that we have completed over the last year our energy cost per occupied room decreased by 5.8% in the fourth quarter of 2013 and decreased by 4.6% for the full year of 2013 as compared to 2012.
Turning now to leading indicators.
You're seeing a number of trends across our portfolio that point toward continued moderate growth.
On the macro front U.S.
employment continues to slowly improve.
Industrywide business transient and negotiated account trends both continue to improve as well.
And one of the best leading indicators for our business is group of booking productivity.
Group booking productivity which we define as all future group room nights booked during a specific period.
Notably our same-store group productivity for the full year 2013 increased by 2.6% over the full year 2012.
Keeping with the theme while 2.6% growth is not itself eye-popping it is important to note that we're talking about improvements over already record level group same-store productivity for our portfolio.
As a result our 2014 group pace defined as group revenues on the books for the current year is now the strongest it has been in the past 5 years.
Specifically while our 2014 group pace was slightly below trend several quarters back our 2014 group pace is now up approximately 4% of our 2013 pace the same time last year.
When considering the very high occupancy level of our portfolio we expect that our solid 2014 group base will help to further improve the business transient pricing power of our hotels.
Accordingly we expect our RevPAR and earnings growth to accelerate in 2014.
That said as Bryan will discuss in a moment we see no reason to be aggressive in our full year guidance at this time.
As we've typically done we've set a guidance range that we believe is realistic and attainable.
We will make every effort of course to outperform our guidance range.
And we're out of the gate strongly thus far in 2014.
In January our portfolio generated RevPAR growth of approximately 6.5%.
And with that I'll now turn the call over to John to discuss some of our current finance initiatives.
Thank you Ken and good morning everyone.
Today I'll provide greater clarity on our anticipated 2014 dividend as well as provide an overview of 2 financial tools recently put in place including an ATM share issuance program and a share repurchase authorization.
We believe that our dividend policy as well as the implementation of these financial tools will enhance total shareholder value by: one providing greater optionality to efficiently reinvest operating cash flow back into our portfolio and to meet our corporate objectives; two raising incremental capital in a cost-efficient way when our share price fully or more than fully reflects the value of our portfolio; and three capitalizing on periodic dislocations in the equity markets through the repurchase of our own shares.
First off I'll provide more clarity regarding our dividend policy.
Today we announced a continuation of our $0.05 per share per quarter cash common dividend.
As many of you are aware our taxable income attributed to common shareholders is expected to increase from roughly $0.10 per share in 2013 to an estimated $0.50 to $0.60 per share in 2014 based on our current earnings guidance.
The significant increase in taxable income is largely attributed to: one exhausting the majority of our NOLs; two a reduction in the preferred stock dividend as a result of eliminating the Series A and Series C preferreds in early 2013; three capturing the income from the non-ownership stub period of our 2013 acquisitions; and four the anticipated increase in aggregate property level earnings.
In order to satisfy our distribution requirements we expect to pay a substantial topper [ph] dividend in the fourth quarter of 2013 which may be structured as an all-cash dividend or as a combination of cash and stock subject to IRS rules.
Later on in the year we intend to make the determination of the level and composition of the year-end dividend based largely on our capital requirements and the enhancement of our corporate objectives including our long-term leverage initiatives.
Based on yesterday's closing share price of $13.38 our projected taxable income implies a full year yield of between 3.7% and 4.5%.
Now let me turn to the implementation of various finance tools intended to provide us with greater financial flexibility.
We have concurrently put in place a $150 million ATM share issuance program as well as a $100 million share buyback authorization.
To be very clear as of today we do not intend to use either the ATM or the share buyback program at the current stock price.
Rather these financial tools simply give us the option of raising incremental capital to boost liquidity when our shares are trading at a premium to NAV or to buy back our stock when our share price is considerably lower than the inherent value of our portfolio.
With a strong balance sheet ample liquidity and a well-staggered debt maturity schedule we expect to periodically and opportunistically utilize these commonly used financial tools to efficiently take advantage of various opportunities as they arise.
With that I'll turn it over to Marc to discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2013 operating results and our thoughts on the current operating environment.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
I will review our portfolio's fourth quarter and full year 2013 operating performance in greater detail.
All hotel information discussed today unless otherwise noted is for our 28-hotel portfolio which excludes Boston Park Plaza and is adjusted for the Marriott calendar change.
For the fourth quarter our comparable RevPAR was up 3.5% to $145.33 with a 1.5% growth in ADR and the 150-basis-point improvement in occupancy.
During the fourth quarter 8 of our hotels generated double-digit RevPAR growth including our Renaissance D.C.
Marriott Long Wharf and JW Marriott New Orleans.
From a total room segmentation standpoint in Q4 group revenues were flat year-over-year driven by a 2% increase in ADR and a 2% decrease in group rooms.
Our New Orleans hotels had a great group and transient rate growth due to strong citywides during the fourth quarter.
Other hotels with good group rate growth in the fourth quarter were the Renaissance D.C.
and Marriott Long Wharf.
Q4 transient only room revenue increased 4.8% to last year with a 2.2% increase in ADR and a 2.5% increase in room nights.
During the fourth quarter our comparable portfolio had 560 sellout nights or 21.7% of the Q4 room nights.
This is an improvement over the 522 sellout nights we achieved during the fourth quarter of 2012.
This is the highest number of Q4 sellouts for our portfolio in the last 5 years.
As our hotels have established better base business through groups in contracts our operators have focused on increasing transient revenue through rates with mix shifting and compression.
A few key revenue management reference points for Q4.
Our premium room revenue improved 9.6%.
Our corporate negotiated ADR grew 3.2%.
And finally our discount room segments grew ADR 9.8% with discounted room nights increasing 6.1% as our operators effectively shifted our business mix into both higher-rated segments and a higher-rated discount segments.
For the full year 2013 our comparable portfolio RevPAR was up 4.5% to $148.20 which was negatively impacted by $10 million of total revenue displacement or 120 basis points.
For 2013 4 of our hotels generated double-digit RevPAR growth led by the Renaissance D.C.
which had an unprecedented year with great in-house group growth driven by the new rooms product.
A key revenue management highlight for the full year 2013 our premium room revenue improved 7.5% driven by a 6% increase in rooms.
Our corporate negotiated ADR grew 4.2%.
Our discounted room segments grew ADR 8% with discounted room nights increasing only 1% as our operators effectively shifted our business mix into both higher-rated segments and higher-rated discount segments.
Overall for full year 2013 our portfolio had a 7% increase in sellout nights as compared to 2012.
This was the fifth consecutive year of growth in sellout room nights.
As we have stated over the last few quarters our operations have focused on increasing transient revenue through aggressive revenue mix management changes.
Interestingly these mixed shifts appear to have been accomplished largely without negatively impacting our occupancy rates.
Full year 2013 our 28-hotel comparable portfolio is up plus 2.6% in group room production for all current and future years driven by significant group bookings at several of our hotels including the Sheraton Cerritos Marriott Quincy and Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
We continue to see strong continued group trends throughout our portfolio.
Our 4 2013 major renovation hotels were plus 12.3% in group production for the full year driven by an over 50% increase in group room production post renovations.
We continue to seek opportunities to improve the portfolio profitability.
As we mentioned on all of our calls since 2013 energy continues to be a significant focus of the company.
We continue to implement various energy savings initiatives as Ken discussed throughout the portfolio.
To that end our energy cost per occupied room decreased 5.8% in the fourth quarter and decreased 4.6% for the full year 2013 as compared to 2012.
As we continue to implement these energy savings programs we are targeting returns ranging from the low teens to 30% our unvested capital.
Looking forward to 2014 our current 2014 group pace for all 29 hotels has increased to 3.8% driven largely by growth in occupied room nights.
Our portfolio is being negatively impacted by our Renaissance Washington D C.
where group pace stands roughly 10% below last year's record pace.
We expect D.C.
to have significant impact on our portfolio all year due to the difficult comp over a phenomenal 2013 and due to the very soft market that D.C.
is expected to have in 2014.
Our 4 major 2013 renovation hotels are heading into 2014 with group pace up 34.2% driven by a 25% increase in rooms and a 7.5% increase in ADR.
Now let's spend some time talking about a few of our key markets in 2014.
We expect 4 of our markets Washington D.C.
Chicago New York and New Orleans to somewhat lag our portfolio in terms of 2014 growth.
Washington D.
C.
as an overall market is expected to be flat to negative in 2014.
PKF's most recent forecast for upper-priced hotels indicates a 0.4% reduction in RevPAR driven by several different factors including the impact of inauguration in 2013 the lack of growth in major citywide conventions and the decline of many citywides which particularly impacts the city center hotels continued uncertainty in the government travel allowances government group restrictions and finally the addition of new supply in D.C.
led by the opening of the new 1 175 room Marriott Marquis scheduled to open in May.
Because our Renaissance does more group and convention driven business and last year was a record year for in-house group of this hotel we expect our hotel to underperform the market in 2014 by a couple of hundred basis points.
We remain very bullish on Washington D.C.
in the long term especially with stronger citywide years in the outer years of 2016 and 2017.
Specific to our hotel we expect the completion of the city center mixed use project located at the front door of our hotel will bring an upsurge in transient demand for the D.C.
Renaissance.
Shifting to Chicago.
As an overall market is expected to be positive but the market is still absorbing the recent increase in supply.
Citywides are expected to be up marginally but the addition of new supply is limiting the hotel's ability to grow rate as they absorb the new inventory in the city.
In Q4 2013 according to Smith Travel Research the upscale train track in Chicago declined a negative 6.5% in RevPAR while our Hyatt Chicago declined minus 5.7%.
Our Embassy Suites increased 1.2% and our Hilton Garden Inn declined 12%.
Our Hilton Garden Inn saw a significant impact from the opening and continued ramp up of the White Lodging triplex.
Our Hyatt Chicago is being impacted by the lack of significant growth in citywide conventions and the new supply.
The hotel has seen a very good ramp up in the last 6 months and has exceeded our underwriting and revenue for 2013.
However hotel profitability is ramping a bit slower than originally anticipated.
That said we remain confident that the hotel will continue to build market share over time.
We believe that New York as an overall market will have minimal growth due to the new supply both in New York City and in our Times Square market.
We did experience a better-than-anticipated lift from Super Bowl in 2014 and our Hilton Times Square will outperform the market due to the renovation displacement and ADR growth we experienced in 2013.
Specifically RevPAR at our Hilton Times Square is up 53% year-to-date through February 17th yet RevPAR at the DoubleTree is only up 4%.
We expect rate growth for our DoubleTree Times Square to moderate this year as the market continues to assimilate new supply.
Again long term we see the New York market as one of the top hotel markets in the country and we believe the premier locations of our 2 assets will continue to improve over time.
Finally the last of our markets where we expect some softness in 2014 is New Orleans.
Our JW Marriott New Orleans performed phenomenally during the Super Bowl last year and as a result of mega citywides that were in the market.
Our hotels are expected to have a difficult comparison to the outperformance they had with these special events.
The Super Bowl alone positively impacted the JW's full year RevPAR by approximately 380 basis points and 2014 has 3 fewer major citywide conventions on a year-over-year basis.
Now for the markets where we expect above average growth in 2014 Boston San Francisco and Orlando.
Boston as an overall market is expected to perform very strong in 2014.
The city will see an increase of 4 citywides compared to 2013.
In addition there is limited supply growth across the market which is combined with peak occupancies in several hotels is expected to lead to strong rate growth.
We've projected our 3 Boston hotels to deliver between 6.5% and 8.5% in combined RevPAR growth in 2014 including the limited renovation displacement at the Boston Park Plaza.
In San Francisco we expect to have a very strong performance in 2014 with RevPAR being one of the top markets in the nation.
While the number of citywides are flat the number of rooms per citywide is forecasted to increase as well as the continued growth in technology demand and transient demand.
While our hotel will be slightly impacted by the guestrooms' renovation in the first quarter the remainder of the year we expect to see growth in both transient and group.
We expect our San Francisco Hyatt Regency to deliver between 5% and 7% RevPAR growth in 2014.
The Orlando market continues to experience strong growth in demand.
Our hotel expects to have significant growth in group rooms driven from stronger citywide year in 2014 than 2013.
We expect our Renaissance Orlando to deliver between 7.5% and 9.5% RevPAR growth in 2014.
Looking beyond 2014 we believe our portfolio is well positioned to outperform for the duration of this cycle.
In 2015 some of the markets where we expect strength will be Orlando where our hotel's 2015 pace is up 20%; Chicago where citywides increased to 37% from 35% in '14 and 34% in '13; New Orleans where citywide room nights are up 16%; and at the San Diego Bayfront where our hotel's rate pace is up 8.3%.
In 2016 we expect to see good growth in Washington D.C.
San Diego New Orleans San Francisco and Boston.
Let me turn now to Bryan to review our liquidity and guidance.
Bryan please go ahead.
Thank you Marc.
I'll now turn to our balance sheet and give an overview of our liquidity and overall leverage profile.
With respect to our liquidity we ended the year with approximately $194 million of cash including $89 million of restricted cash.
In addition to our cash position we have an undrawn $150 million credit facility and 13 unencumbered hotels.
During 2013 these unencumbered assets collectively generated approximately $70.6 million of EBITDA.
At the end of the year we had $1.5 billion of consolidated debt and preferred securities which includes 100% of the $232 million mortgage secured by the Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
Adjusting for the debt attributed to our minority partner in this asset our prorata debt balance is currently $1.46 billion which consists of entirely well-staggered non-crossed mortgage debt and preferred securities.
Our debt has a weighted average term to maturity of 3.7 years and an average interest rate of 4.86%.
Our variable rate debt as a percentage of total debt stands at 29.3% and we have no debt maturities through early 2015.
We are comfortable with our current leverage profile and our ability to continue to achieve our long-term credit milestones.
Consistent with the track record we built over the past several years we expect to further improve our balance sheet and increase our financial flexibility in a methodical and shareholder-friendly manner as the lodging cycle continues.
Now turning to guidance.
A full reconciliation of our current guidance can be found on Pages 17 to 19 of our supplemental as well as in our earnings release.
As noted with our major 2013 renovations now complete and with a solid base of group rooms on the books we expect to see acceleration in the pace of our RevPAR growth in 2014 and beyond.
That said as Ken noted we see no reason to be aggressive in our full year guidance at this time.
As we've typically done we set guidance -- we set our guidance range in a range that we believe is realistic and attainable.
For the first quarter we see RevPAR growing between 5.5% and 7.5%.
We expect first quarter adjusted EBITDA to come in between $44 million and $47 million and we expect first quarter adjusted FFO per diluted share to be between $0.12 and $0.14.
The midpoint of this range implies 44% growth in our adjusted FFO per share in the first quarter.
Our full year 2014 adjusted EBITDA guidance ranges from $275 million to $295 million and our full year adjusted FFO guidance ranges from $1.04 to $1.15 per diluted share.
At the midpoint this indicates an 18% increase in FFO per share as compared to 2013.
With that I'll now turn the call back over to Ken to wrap up.
Thank you very much Bryan.
I'll discuss industry fundamentals and our corporate priorities before opening up the call to questions.
The lodging recovery that began in December 2009 remains strongly on track.
Consistent with our prior comments we expect continued gradual improvement in the lodging industry fundamentals for the next several years albeit at a more measured rate of recovery than during prior cycles.
While we are seeing pockets of new hotel supply in certain of our markets particularly in New York Chicago and Washington DC the trailing 12-month U.S.
lodging demand to supply growth rate spread is roughly 1.7 percentage points in favor of demand which is well above historical norms.
This is a positive indicator for the health of our industry which we expect to persist for some time.
Based on the supply pipelines we monitor we believe the industry will continue to experience lower overall new hotel supply additions than it has during prior cycles for the remainder of the current recovery.
Meanwhile we expect to see continued growth in demand for upper upscale hotel rooms across our portfolio as the ongoing rebound in employment corporate profits and improving consumer and business sentiment continue to fuel higher-rated travel especially in the major U.S.
markets where we have hotel investments.
With constructive industry fundamentals as a backdrop I can summarize our 2014 priorities very succinctly by stating that we plan to stay the course.
Specifically as we continue to navigate the middle years of what we believe will be a prolonged period of growth for the lodging companies our long-term goal is unchanged build shareholder value by improving the quality and scale of our portfolio while gradually deleveraging our balance sheet.
Over the past several years we have demonstrated that our long-term goal is not a contradiction.
With discipline and foresight a lodging REIT can create meaningful shareholder value while deleveraging its balance sheet.
Moreover with our portfolio now operating at all-time high occupancy levels with very strong average daily rates our ability to efficiently translate incremental revenues into profit growth continues to improve and we have grown incrementally more positive on our outlook for 2014 and beyond.
With that we thank you for your time today and for your continued interest in Sunstone.
Before opening up the call to questions I'd like to invite everyone on today's call to our Investor Day that we have scheduled for April 9 at our Hilton Times Square.
Details for this event can be found on our website or on the press release we uploaded this morning.
And with that let's open up the call to questions.
Sarah please go ahead.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Chris Woronka of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> On the property tax issue thanks for showing us the impact of that in the fourth quarter.
But what's kind of your outlook there and how much is it going to impact your margins? I know we've heard a lot of things from your peers about California being an area of big increases and maybe you can just give us your outlook for property taxes there and cross portfolio? Sure Chris.
Look property taxes have been a focus of ours for a long time and we've seen periods of pretty good wins on the property tax front.
And then in cases like we had in the fourth quarter we've had some property tax appeals go against us.
Over time we think that our aggressive approach to how we manage property taxes will result in better-than-average trends there and I don't see us projecting property taxes meaningfully outpacing other expense streams.
I will say the last year property taxes increased on a POR basis by about $1.20 which was one of the most significant moves that we saw of any of our expenses across our portfolio.
But again that was what we believe are isolated events and I would expect as our ongoing appeals efforts come to fruition over the course of this year you may very well may see some changes in that.
Chris this is Bryan just to add to that.
The time it takes and during the appeal process we've been working especially in California we've been appealing the Hilton San Diego real estate tax from when we acquired the hotel and just received some -- a refund for prior years on that but the lead time on the appeals are -- can be up to 4 years 3 4 years.
So while these rates go up we fight them and appeal each one but the lead time and the lag it takes to get those funds back or get a new valuation it takes a while.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And just a follow-up on that is it a case of purely the valuations are going up or are the rates going up as well? We're seeing -- we see a bit of both across the board.
It's pretty even between the 2.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on acquisitions you guys I guess have a dot in moving the property in most of the major markets certainly kind of the top 10 that we look at.
To the extent that you have an appetite for acquisitions and you can find something at the right price are you more likely to kind of look at a few new markets? Or would you prefer to go deeper in places like San Francisco and Boston? Chris we've been pretty fortunate on the acquisitions front.
Cycle to date the deals that we've closed we're very pleased with.
I'd say as the cycle continues to mature we'll be incrementally even more disciplined than we have been around acquisitions.
So depending on where the equity markets are and depending on where the competitive bid process is for acquisitions you may see us be slightly less acquisitive going forward.
Markets that we're looking to continue to build on an allocation to we do like San Francisco.
Again you see some prices that are -- that were also trading at well north but we were able to acquire the Hyatt Regency Embarcadero.
We like our price point there.
We don't necessarily like the price point at which we're seeing other hotels trade.
But we will continue to monitor that market.
We like Seattle.
We'd love to build out a better base in Portland.
We like Hawaii although we're seeing some changes right now in the tax environment there that are probably going to keep us on the sideline at least for the near term.
And then aside from that we'll continue to look at Gateway markets so there are allocation to Boston New York DC I think we've got a pretty good balance to allocation at this point on the major East Coast markets.
Research Division</strong> Great and just a quick follow-up on that dividend.
So it sounds like a special in the fourth quarter but how should we think about that $0.05 for a quarterly run rate? Is it pretty much assured you're just going to keep that? Or could some of that special effectively kind of bleed into a higher quarterly run rate? So Chris I'm going to shift over to John in a second we spend a lot of time on the dividends.
We've got a very considered viewpoint on what a dividend is and what it is not for a capital-intensive business like ours.
So at this point we do expect to maintain a $0.05 cash quarterly dividend.
As we said in our notes in the release and in our comments today we will make a determination in the fourth quarter as to the constitution and size of the fourth quarter dividend.
I wouldn't consider it a special dividend.
That is the $0.60 that we've talked about in our release that is run rate taxable income for the -- for what our portfolio is generating today.
We would expect that amount to grow over time.
So one way or the other that dividend is going to -- we're required to make those dividends.
That dividend will be there and will likely grow.
So we'd caution you not to think of that as a special dividend but rather than -- rather a fourth quarter -- a larger fourth quarter dividend than the first 3 quarters.
John do want to have some more? No I think that's it.
Chris as Ken said we will maintain a very stable cash dividend of $0.05 per quarter.
And then as the year goes on we will continue to evaluate the size and composition of the topper [ph] dividend as we've been calling it.
And just keep in mind as Ken said but I'll add emphasis to the total distribution requirements as we get further into the economic recovery that number should increase -- is likely to increase fairly meaningfully year-over-year.
Your next question comes from the line of David Loeb of Baird.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on capital allocation -- capital spending.
Can you talk a little bit about what you're going to do with $5 million on the Renaissance DC? I thought you'd really done everything there with the big overall.
Why the $5 million more now? So Renaissance DC is simply the meeting space.
As you know that's a large group hotel and we are in the process of working on all the ballrooms all the meeting space level and getting that up to consistent quality level with the rest of the rooms.
Research Division</strong> So was that just not done as part of the previous? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay interesting.
And can you just give us an update on your thoughts on the rooms tower in San Diego? Update on the thoughts on the rooms tower in San Diego? Research Division</strong> Yes doing another rooms tower [indiscernible]...
I'm sorry David are you asking about our existing hotel? Research Division</strong> I'm asking about the possibility of adding the rooms tower to your existing hotel.
We are not at this point contemplating adding a rooms tower to that hotel.
There is a process underway in San Diego for the expansion of the convention center which is working through an appeals process.
And we've got an option there.
And as we sit here today we have not exercised that option and we'll make a determination probably in the next 18 months or so if we're likely to proceed.
Your next question comes from the line of Lukas Hartwich of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm just curious what your yield estimate is on the retail portion of the Park Plaza? Sure.
And actually the yield is pretty consistent with what we talked about when we announced the acquisition.
When we announced the hotel acquisition we talked about 43 000 square feet of underutilized or unutilized retail space in the hotel.
As we talked about today we've got 30 000 square feet of that space earmarked for lease up over the course of this year and into the beginning of next year.
And so right now we're seeing somewhere between $1.5 million and $2 million of rental income on the space.
Our build out is a relatively small percentage of the total Phase 1 budget for that space but you have to also add our allocated purchase price to that square footage when you [indiscernible] with the yield.
So we see these yielding better than the overall hotel but not significantly -- not at the significant levels that you would expect based on the net cost.
It's required to prepare the space for leasing if that makes sense.
And just as a follow-on on that that retail podium leased out is probably in the neighborhood of $30 million to $35 million of value is the way we look at it.
And so when you backed that off from 1 053-room hotel you can see that there -- unlike most hotels there's considerable value in the real estate on that fantastic corner in the Back Bay.
So take that into consideration when you think about our -- once we're done with the renovation the total investment in the hotel.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just another quick one do you have any sort of return expectations on the new digital sign at the DoubleTree in Times Square? That's even more straightforward.
We've lease that out over the next 3 years.
And our total cost to build that sign was about $3 million.
No the sign -- the cost of the sign was actually $1 million.
There was a structural -- there were some structural things we were doing and the buildings didn't relate to that and the leased up is in the neighborhood of $400 000 to $500 000 a year that we're going to be getting from a lease.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So 50% return? Yes cash on cash.
Yes.
Not including.
I was including in the $3 million some of the stuff that we did to the front door and the facade which is -- Marc's correct.
The sign itself is only about $1 million investment.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's a new sign right? It's not a replacement of an older sign? It's a replacement of -- if you're familiar with the hotel there was a very dated sign.
It said DoubleTree suites.
It was a marquee a lighted marquee sign.
That's been replaced now with a complete LED video screen.
Right the old sign was non-revenue generating.
The new sign is revenue generating.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Meliker of MLV &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate all the color you gave in your prepared remarks with regards to how you're comfortable with your guidance range.
I was just hoping further to hit up a little bit more first of all with regards to the Renaissance DC.
Can you give us an idea of where your group revenue pace is for the portfolio excluding that asset? You mentioned that asset was down about 10%.
I don't know what component of overall group that property is right now? Sure.
So I will hand it over to Marc.
Our pace overall for 2014 portfolio including Renaissance DC is up 4% and let me give it to Marc.
Sure.
Without the Renaissance DC we're up plus 6%.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So that's having a pretty big impact.
And is the majority of the impact from the Renaissance going to be on the back half of the year after the Marriott opens? Or is it going to be gradual throughout the year? No it's actually spread throughout the year and we're actually up in pace in Q4 and a little down in Q3 and down slightly flat in Q2 and down a little bit in 1 so it's really spread out.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then how is that property looking for 2014 with -- or 2015 with the new Marriott Marquis already open? Are you starting to see some nice uptick from new citywide conventions and things driving that at -- that the Marriott Marquis driving? Citiwides in Washington DC in 2015 are basically even but the real strength comes in in 2016 and 2017 where you're really starting to see good movement in citywides now that you have a gateway connecting hotel to the convention center.
Research Division</strong> So is that property likely to be a drag again in '15? I wouldn't use the term drag.
We suspect it will see a slight RevPAR uptick from the down RevPAR this year but it won't be strong.
But we do expect strength we do expect growth and strength really coming in '16 and 17 to that hotel.
And then Ryan you also have to think or understand that the redevelopment of the city center site that used to be the old convention center is in its final stages right now.
That whole $1.8 billion redevelopment effort is at our front door.
So we see a great deal of transient demand uplift as that project comes online.
So yes the Marquis is going to come on definitely will have an impact on our hotel this year as we talked about.
But overall we love the street corner that we're on in Washington DC.
And as Marc was just saying the long-term prospects for our asset in that market are very positive.
Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
And then just with regards to New York City and your 2 assets in Times Square.
Smith Travel Research are totally now put out an article about Midtown West Times Square you're seeing rates up 90% over the Super Bowl weekend.
Any color on how you hotels performed and what that plus 53% for the Times -- for the Hilton would've been excluding the Super Bowl and what the DoubleTree at plus 4% would be excluding the Super Bowl? Sure.
Let me start off and I'll hand it over to Marc for more specifics.
I think if you remember to our last call we mentioned that we didn't see the Super Bowl as having a noteworthy impact on our New York hotels.
Number one the state patterns weren't as constructive as we'd seen in other markets nor was the -- because nor was the room space small enough to have the Super Bowl make a big impact.
We talked about New Orleans where our JW Marriott in New Orleans had a 3.8 percentage point improvement in RevPAR in the full year as a result of the Super Bowl.
We did not see that kind of an uptick in New York but we did see better-than-anticipated trends at both of our hotels.
Marc if you want to give some more specifics on...
Yes we'll have to get back to you with the exact specifics without Super Bowl impact.
But in general we did have a good Super Bowl week.
But as Ken said if you sort of take a look at what's occurred over the last 4 or 5 years in that market or 3 or 4 years around the same time frame it was not hugely impactful to Times Square because Times Square is so strong in general.
Research Division</strong> Yes I've noticed [indiscernible] a big of an impact on New York as well as [indiscernible] alike New York.
New Orleans just given the size but given Smith Travel Research's analysis saying that Times Square it [indiscernible] saw 100% increase in rate.
I was just wondering if you guys saw anything close to that.
No well over the 3-day period we had very good rate growth but nothing like a 100% rate growth.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Didora of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Ken I guess one of the themes we've been hearing on a lot in a lot of conference calls of late has been the strength of the West Coast.
San Diego is the one market that you really never hear cited.
Can you maybe talk about what you're seeing in that market and what your outlook is for the rest of this year and into '15? Sure.
No problem.
We talked about Boston San Francisco and Orlando as being bright spots across our portfolio this year.
San Diego as far as citywides go this year you're basically flat.
You are going to see an uptick in 2015 and then some very nice trends in 2016 and 2017.
So overall we think San Diego is going to have an okay year this year followed by some pretty positive long-term indicators beginning in '15 and beyond.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just final question for me is just as we get later in the cycle now do you continue to see some opportunities to sell some assets right now as the cycle continues? We have done a reasonably good job of pairing out some of our legacy hotels from the portfolio.
There's still 2 or 3 hotels or 3 or 4 hotels within our portfolio that would be sale candidates over the remainder of this cycle.
Just as we're going to pursue acquisitions with I think incrementally more caution and diligence we'll do the same thing with asset sales but certainly you could see us look to sell maybe 3 or 4 hotels over the next 18 to 24 months.
Andrew John Arabia just really quickly piggyback on to Ken's comments.
I think it's important to keep in mind the strength the recent strength and improving strength of the CMBS markets and how that will potentially impact demand for hotels from private equity particularly some hotels that might not be core urban.
So I think that that gives us an opportunity to selectively over time take a look at the portfolio and potentially dispose of incremental assets.
But as Ken said I think we've done a very very good job of pruning the portfolio to what is a high-quality portfolio.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Powell of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the Boston Park Plaza retail.
Is there an opportunity to monetize the retail away from the hotel given some of the transactions we see in the retail market? Yes Anthony very good question.
There are very well may be at some point in the future.
Right now we like the idea of owning the consolidated interest in this asset.
As we talked about on the call our long-term vision for this hotel is pretty exciting.
There's an clear opportunity we believe to upgrade the quality of the hotel and in the process upgrade the nature of the retail and the other tenants that are located in the building.
Once that's come to full fruition and we've realized the benefits of that there could be a scenario where we look to have off the retail and monetize that at a higher price point than what the value it would be trading valued at within our portfolio.
Right now that we like controlling the entire operation.
Research Division</strong> And just to follow-up on the group trends I think you and others in the industry have seen very strong production for '14 and beyond.
How was your in the quarter fourth quarter group bookings in the fourth quarter? And how do you expect that to trend within this year? Sure I'll start off and then I'll hand it to Marc.
The fourth quarter group bookings were softer than what we had seen in prior quarters.
And I don't think -- I would encourage you not to read a whole lot into that.
We talked about our productivity for the full year as increasing almost 3%.
We see those trends continuing into 2014.
But fourth quarter was a little bit softer on the overall group booking trend.
In part this is once again the numbers are in part skewed because of the Marriott calendar shift.
So Marc do you want to give some more specifics on this? Yes.
For the full year we were very strong and were positive but the fourth quarter shift with Marriott having 20 less days in group production makes a change.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Crow of Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but one of the things we don't see a lot of is share repurchases in the hotel REIT sector.
And I understand it's just another weapon in your arsenal you may never use it.
Can you tell me what might trigger its use and maybe John this is for you given your prior employer? Is this an NAV-driven thought process? Is it a discount to the peer set? Is it some sort of discount to replacement cost? At what point would you anticipate going forward with this? Yes Bill it's John.
Relative to peers it really doesn't matter all that much when you're arbitraging between public and private pricing.
It's really discount to NAV and it would have to be notable discount to NAV considering as we all know that NAV is not a pure science so to speak but we do feel comfortable that we know the value of our portfolio albeit one that those values are changing based on what's going on in the world.
I will tell you it's not simply a discount to NAV rather we need to take into consideration our corporate objectives our liquidity and our balance sheet objectives.
But I think you said it well Bill.
This gives us another tool or another weapon for us to go out and create shareholder value if there is significant dislocation in our stock and the best investment for our shareholders represent -- is our own shares.
So at the current share price as I mentioned in our prepared remarks as of today the share repurchase program would not be used but let's see what happens going forward and we're ready to take advantage of those opportunities.
Your next question comes from the line of David Auerbach of Esposito Securities.
Most of my questions have also been answered but I just have 2 thoughts.
You mentioned some of the cities that you guys were looking at for opportunities if the price was right.
So just looking at the portfolio I guess if you had to pick 2 or 3 specific locations that you might want to take a look at or if you could get involved in.
Where would those be like Seattle Atlanta Denver just curious? And then also your thoughts on the preferred possibly floating a new issue where the current preferred is at and I'll hang up and listen.
All right David thanks for the question.
Again markets that we would consider making investments in we like all the gateway markets in the U.S.
where we currently have assets.
We feel like our allocation is pretty full and markets like Chicago and Boston at this point.
But we'll continue to look at markets like Seattle.
We would like to get a little bit bigger presence in San Francisco.
We wouldn't mind doing more in Portland and certainly could do more in LA and in San Diego as well.
As far as your question on the preferred as you know over the last year we've retired a considerable chunk of our existing preferreds.
We have about 115 million of preferreds outstanding at an 8% yield.
It's an interesting security for us but overall given our continued focus on gradual de-leveraging of our portfolio we're probably in the near term at least unlikely to issue new preferreds.
The current tranche that we have outstanding is not repayable at par until -- when is it 2016? -- 2016.
So at that point it's likely to stay outstanding until that point.
Your next question comes from the line of Nikhil Bhalla of FBR.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the Hilton reward points.
I recall hearing from you a quarter or 2 ago that that was an issue in New York.
Is that still an issue for you? You refer specifically to what issue? Research Division</strong> Yes this is regarding the Hilton reward points.
I remember I think a quarter or 2 ago you talked about seeing some headwinds because of that in your assets in New York.
I was just wondering if the reward points or monetization of those reward points is still an issue.
Absolutely.
I think I didn't hear that piece of the question upfront but thanks for asking that.
Clearly as we stated that few months ago the Hilton's devaluation of their rewards point and the change in the overall system for our hotels in Times Square as anticipated had a very meaningful impact on those hotels in the -- over the course of 2013 and certainly in the fourth quarter when those shoppers weekends kick in.
In 2013 we saw an overall reduction in redemption room nights for example at our DoubleTree Times Square.
Basically the redemption room nights were cut in half.
In 2012 they ran about 24% of our total revenue.
2013 they were about 12% of our total revenue.
If you look at our supplemental you can see the impact of that change on our -- on the performance especially the DoubleTree and in particular it shows up on the margin trends.
That's one area where I believe I called out in my comments at the beginning of the call that that change alone had a fairly significant impact on that hotel's ability to yield out its room space over the course of the fourth quarter kind of coming to a head in the near -- in the timing -- I'm sorry the New Year's eve timeframe.
That's baked in at this point.
While the rules certainly are subject to change again in the future our expectation is that the run rate that we had in 2013 is likely to be consistent with what we're seeing going forward for the hotel.
As we've done in the past we continue to work with our operators to come up with more sophisticated and direct revenue management strategies to maneuver within the current [indiscernible] environment.
Research Division</strong> So just to dig out a little bit further would that suggest that your Hilton Times Square hotel could clearly year-to-date you've talked about over 50% RevPAR growth.
Could that see continued impact for the remainder of the year as well as the DoubleTree? Or would you say that Hilton Times Square given all the renovations is probably a little bit better positioned now for the rest of the year versus the DoubleTree? Yes 2 things there.
The Hilton Times Square which is located at 42nd and has a different rooms product than what you've got at the DoubleTree which is the big suite product the Hilton Times Square does -- does less rewards redemptions than the DoubleTree in fact in 2013 the change in revenue that was generated through rewards redemptions was much much less pronounced it was about 2 percentage points of total revenue it went from 10% of total revenue in 2012 to about 8% in 2013.
So less impactful there for sure.
I will say the renovations work that we completed over the course of 2013 in the Hilton does even more to help that hotel be competitive against the existing hotel base absent the ability to yield out the rooms with the rewards system.
So I think we're in good shape there.
We think we're in good shape in both hotels but it was unfortunate to have to take a little bit of a step back on the revenue management strategies during 2013.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just one follow-up question for John here.
John would you just reconcile for us the SG&amp;A this year versus last year? Nikhil it's Bryan.
We guided this year to overhead -- cash overhead of approximately $20 million $21 million it's about roughly $1 million higher than where we were last year on a run-rate basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then the noncash part is probably around $6 million or so? It's $6 million yes.
And that's the stock amortization piece.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Sorry one last question for John here.
John you referenced the CMBS market and how that could be instrumental in maybe setting a part of the portfolio here.
My sense is you are thinking more from a standpoint of like selling a chunk of portfolio.
When we think of CMBS debt we tend to think applicability more on the larger downside rather than single one-off assets.
Just wanted to kind of get a sense of what you thought there? I'm sorry I hope I did not imply that because that's not our intention to sell off a chunk or a large portfolio as you say.
My comment really was the CMBS market has markedly improved and you're seeing loan values upwards of 80% in some situations on stabilized assets.
Clearly that cheap capital I think will advantage private equity buyers who just have a different view on leverage.
And I think it'll also fuel continued increases in overall hotel values.
So my point really was the overall pendulum that has strongly in favor of REIT acquisitions in over the past few years that pendulum I think is swinging a little bit more towards in favor of private equity.
And to the extent that it could help us to the extent that we -- over the next few years -- nothing immediate over the next few years look to divest a very small number of our hotels.
There are no further questions at this time.
Please continue.
Great.
Thank you very much everyone for joining us today and we look forward to seeing many of you at our Investor Day again it is scheduled for April 9 at the Hilton Times Square.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Sunstone Hotel Investors First Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today Tuesday May 6 2014 at 9:00 a.m.
Pacific time.
I will now turn the presentation over to Bryan Giglia Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Melissa and good morning everyone.
By now you should have all received a copy of our first quarter earnings release and supplemental which were distributed yesterday.
If you do not yet have a copy of these you can access them on our website at www.sunstonehotels.com.
Before we begin this call I'd like to remind everyone that this call contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties including those described in our prospectuses 10-Qs 10-Ks and other filings with the SEC which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
We caution you to consider those factors in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
We also note that this call contains non-GAAP financial information including EBITDA adjusted EBITDA FFO adjusted FFO and hotel EBITDA margins.
We are providing that information as a supplement to information prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
With us on the call today are Ken Cruse Chief Executive Officer; and John Arabia President.
After our remarks we will be available to answer your questions.
With that I'd like to now turn the call over to Ken.
Ken please go ahead.
Thanks Bryan and thank you all for joining us today.
Having recently met with many of you at our Investor Day we've tried to keep today's prepared remarks brief.
I'll start by reviewing our first quarter and some leading indicators for our portfolio then I'll discuss our portfolio quality improvement program then I'll finish with comments on what we're seeing in terms of industry fundamentals.
To begin broad-based improvements in demand helped to drive an 8.6% increase in our RevPAR during the first quarter.
Our RevPAR growth was balanced between improving average daily room rates which were up 3% to $174.91; and occupied rooms which were up 400 basis points to an occupancy level of 77.7%.
For reference Q1 is typically our lowest occupancy quarter of the year.
During the first quarter 23 of our hotels achieved RevPAR gains with 12 of our hotels generating double-digit RevPAR growth.
We're seeing particularly strong growth in Southern California our Portland hotel our 2 Houston hotels as well as our Boston and Orlando properties.
Additionally many of our recently renovated hotels are generating excellent year-over-year growth.
Specifically in 2013 we completed full renovations of 4 of our hotels: the Hilton Times Square the Hyatt Newport Beach Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile and the Renaissance Westchester.
Not surprisingly these Four Hotels are leading the charge in terms of RevPAR growth this year.
Partially offsetting the strength we're seeing in most of our markets we have experienced softness in some markets including Chicago Washington D.C.
and New York City.
In each case the confluence of poor weather the simulation of new hotel supply and generally weak city-wide patterns served to offset demand growth in the first quarter.
From a room segmentation standpoint our first quarter group revenues were up 5.7% year-over-year driven by a 5.3% increase in occupied rooms and a slight improvement in group ADR.
Our Hilton San Diego Bayfront had a terrific group quarter achieving a very solid 93% pickup against existing group blocks with several groups increasing their room blocks during the quarter.
Other hotels with strong group trends in the first quarter include our 2 Houston hotels: our Fairmont Newport Beach and our Renaissance Orlando.
Business travel also remains resilient across our portfolio.
Our first quarter transient room revenue increased 10.7% over last year with a 3.8% increase in average daily rate and a 6.6% increase in room nights.
During the first quarter our portfolio had 511 sellout nights.
In other words our hotels achieved sellouts on nearly 20% of the available nights during the first quarter.
This is a 33% improvement over the 385 sellout nights we achieved during the first quarter of 2013.
And this represents our portfolio's highest-ever Q1 sellout percentage.
As our hotels have established better base business through comps -- through groups and contracts our operators have intensified their focus on increasing transient revenue by increasing rates across the board and by compressing out lower-rated business.
To this end in the first quarter our premium room revenue improved 15% driven by a 15.6% increase in premium occupied rooms.
Our corporate negotiated revenue grew by 7.4% and our discounted room segments grew ADR by 8% with discounted room nights increasing only 2% as our operators effectively shifted our business mix out of lower-rated discount segments and into higher-rated group and business transient segments.
The combination of high occupancy less renovation disruption and proactive revenue management enabled us to gain material market share during the first quarter.
In Q1 our hotels gained 390 basis points in STR Index which moved up to an average of 109% for our portfolio.
Our revenue management success in Q1 reflects the continuation of many initiatives we've been working on over the last few quarters.
As we continue working with our operators to increase transient revenue through impressive revenue mix management it's interesting to note that to date our hotels have successfully achieved positive mix shifts without negatively impacting occupancy rates.
We believe this is a very bullish indicator of the overall health of demand for lodging.
With respect to forward indicators our portfolio's group room production defined as group rooms booked for all future periods was up nearly 20% during the first quarter.
This upsurge in booking productivity is being driven by strong group activity at a majority of our hotels with particularly strong productivity coming from our JW Marriott New Orleans Renaissance Long Beach and our Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
Additionally as you might expect our recently renovated hotels are grouping up very well.
Group room production at our Four Hotels we renovated in 2013 was up nearly 70% in the first quarter as we compare -- as compared to Q1 2013 albeit off a very small room -- group room base last year.
More importantly in the first quarter group production for the 4 recently renovated hotels was nearly 16% above prior peak production for these hotels.
We see this as a great indication of the improved competitiveness of these properties.
With the continued growth in group productivity it follows that our 2014 group pace which we define as group revenues on the books for the current year has continued to improve throughout the year and is now at levels we haven't seen since 2008.
Specifically while our 2014 group pace was slightly below trend several quarters back our 2014 group pace is now up approximately 6.5% over our 2013 pace for the same time last year.
As a reminder we indicated that our group room -- group pace through March was up 5.1% during our April Investor Day meaning our current year group pace has continued to positively ramp up over the past month.
I should also note that our portfolio-wide group pace is being negatively impacted this year by our Renaissance Washington D.C.
where group pace stands roughly 6.3% below last year's record level.
Meanwhile consistent with my group productivity comments 2014 group pace at our Four Hotels that underwent major renovations in 2013 is up 45.4% driven by a 38% increase in room nights and a 5.4% increase in average daily rates.
We expect that already very high occupancy levels coupled with our solid 2014 group pace will continue to drive our aggressive revenue management initiatives and at yielding higher rates while closing out lower-rated business.
Shifting to operational efficiencies.
Improving the efficiency of all areas of our operations remains a key focus of ours and energy efficiency is just one piece of that puzzle.
While harsh winter weather resulted in a 4.8% increase in our Q1 energy cost per occupied room it's important to note that this was due to a short-term spike in rates during the first quarter.
Importantly our energy program is oriented around achieving ongoing reductions in energy consumption at our properties.
And we continue to achieve successes in this area.
For example despite the cold weather total energy consumption per occupied room decreased by nearly 40% at our Renaissance Westchester due in large part to the comprehensive energy-efficiency measures we implemented at this hotel in 2013.
Additionally we saw declines in energy consumption at our Marriott Quincy Renaissance Washington D.C.
and Marriott Tysons Corner during the first quarter.
We also achieved a 9.3% reduction in energy consumption per occupied room at our Hilton San Diego Bayfront where we implemented several energy projects over the last year.
Moving onto our portfolio improvement program.
As you know we continually seek to improve the quality and competitiveness of our portfolio through well-timed programmatic capital investments.
I'll spend a moment now updating you on a few of our more significant 2014 projects.
During the first quarter we invested $33.3 million into our portfolio completing rooms and public space renovations at our 781-room Renaissance Orlando our 374-room Renaissance Long Beach and our 357-room Hilton Garden Inn Chicago.
Additionally we're making good progress on our phased renovation of the Boston Park Plaza.
We now have signed leases for the 3 unoccupied retail spaces including Hermes who will occupy a 5 500 square-foot retail store on the first floor; Strega restaurant group a local operator of leading Boston restaurants who will occupy a 5 900 square-foot restaurant on the first floor; and David Barton Gym who will operate a high-quality fitness facility and occupy approximately 20 000 square feet of newly created leasable space on the first floor and basement level of the hotel.
In addition to generating roughly $1.4 million of incremental rent annually we expect the overall guest experience at the Boston Park Plaza will be complemented by the addition of a luxury retailer a high-end restaurant and bar and a world-class fitness amenity.
We expect these tenant spaces to be fully open for business over the next several quarters.
Also we are now substantially finished with renovating the 660 standard guest rooms and corridors at our Hyatt Regency San Francisco.
This renovation work was completed on scope on time and on budget.
As planned later this year we will renovate and reconfigure the atrium and reading space as well as the guest suites of this hotel.
We do not anticipate this phase of renovation work to result in material business disruption.
During the first quarter all of our renovation activity resulted in approximately $1.9 million of displaced revenue.
Consistent with our guidance most of this displacement occurred at our Hyatt Regency San Francisco.
Illustrating the strength of the San Francisco market our RevPAR at the Hyatt Regency was up approximately 2% in Q1 even as we were executing the full renovation of our standard guest rooms.
Excluding the roughly $1.4 million displacement impact from the renovation we estimate the Hyatt's RevPAR would have been up roughly 13% during the first quarter.
For the full year we continue to expect between $3 million and $4 million of renovation-related revenue disruption across our portfolio.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with approximately $178 million of cash including $83 million of restricted cash.
In addition to our cash position we have an undrawn $150 million credit facility and 13 unencumbered hotels.
To date we have utilized our at-the-market equity issuance program to raise a nominal amount of acquisition proceeds.
Specifically we raised approximately $1.4 million of proceeds by issuing shares at $14 during the quarter.
These proceeds are earmarked to partially fund our pending $11 million acquisition of the 7.3 acres of land underlying our Fairmont Newport Beach later in the second quarter.
The $11 million purchase price represents a roughly 6.3% cap rate on trailing ground rent which is approximately $665 000 per year.
But as the ground rent was due to reset this year at 10% of fair market value which will be based on efficiently -- essentially the same methodology we used to value the ground purchase we estimate this purchase effectively equates to a 10% cap rate on a go-forward basis.
As we hold sufficient cash and our internal estimate for our NAV has increased over the past several months going forward we would not anticipate accessing our ATM program at the price level we did earlier this year.
With respect to financial flexibility during 2013 our unencumbered hotels collectively generated approximately $73.9 million of EBITDA.
At the end of the year we had $1.5 billion of consolidated debt and preferred securities which includes 100% of the $231 million mortgage secured by our Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
Our debt has a weighted average interest rate -- terms of maturity I'm sorry of 3.5 years and an average interest rate of 4.86%.
Our variable rate debt as a percentage of total debt stands at 29.3%.
And we have no debt maturities through early 2015.
Now turning to guidance.
A full reconciliation of our current guidance can be found on Pages 17 to 19 of our supplemental as well as in our earnings release.
For the second quarter we see RevPAR growing between 4% and 6% with the Easter shift this year accounting for a 100 to 120 basis point reduction in Q2 RevPAR growth.
We expect second quarter adjusted EBITDA to come in between $89 million and $92 million the midpoint of which is 29% above 2013 EBITDA for the second quarter.
And we expect second quarter adjusted FFO per diluted share to be between $0.37 and $0.39 the midpoint of which is 27% above 2013 adjusted FFO per diluted share for the second quarter.
We have increased our full year 2014 adjusted EBITDA guidance ranges from $281 million to $296 million and our full year adjusted FFO guidance ranges from $1.07 to $1.16 per diluted share to incorporate our first quarter results.
As we continue to navigate the middle years of what we believe will be a prolonged period of growth at -- in -- for lodging companies our long-term goal is essentially unchanged: increase shareholder value by improving the quality and scale of our portfolio while maintaining our balance sheet strength.
As our already all-time high occupancy levels continue to improve and demand continues to increase our ability to efficiently translate growing demand into higher rates and significantly -- and significant profit growth is also improving.
While we have experienced some typical turbulence as this recovery has progressed we have grown incrementally more positive in our outlook for 2014 and beyond.
In short as fundamentals remain highly constructive and business trends improve we see plenty of green lights ahead for our business.
As a team we're quite proud of the progress we've made over the last 3 years but we see where we are as a starting point for Sunstone.
With considerable opportunities to create value for our shareholders going forward it's incumbent on us to capitalize on these opportunities by carefully executing on our stated plan.
With that we thank you for your time today and for your continued interest in Sunstone.
Let's open up the call to questions.
Melissa please go ahead.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Michael Bilerman from Citigroup.
This is Kevin Varin with Michael.
Just in regards to the ATM just given the cash balance in the credit facilities it seems you have plenty of liquidity on balance sheet just given the small amount.
So why utilize the ATM? Hey Kevin thanks for the question and it's a very fair one.
And as I mentioned in my prepared remarks we don't anticipate utilizing the ATM going forward.
During the course of the first quarter we saw this impending purchase of the Fairmont land as a good use of incremental proceeds from the ATM.
However as our view of our liquidity position as well as our overall NAV per share has improved we don't see accessing the ATM at those levels going forward.
Kevin it's John Arabia.
I think a couple of things for you to -- and everybody else to think about when evaluating this relatively small equity raise.
First there's really a fairly wide variance between our unrestricted cash balance and what you see on our balance sheet versus what's immediately available to us in our investment accounts.
There are times that this amount of unrestricted cash in the system which would include cash and hotel operating accounts credit cards in transient lender accounts that have funded for the next month's interest debt amortization ground rent payments et cetera that variance can be as much as $40 million to $50 million.
Now let me make this perfectly clear.
That money is ours and it's very valuable.
It's really just a timing issue when we can access that capital measured in days or weeks.
And so we went out with the expectation of raising just an incremental amount of capital to fund the Fairmont as Ken said.
So hopefully that's helpful.
Okay.
And then just one follow-up question then on the Fairmont Newport Beach.
You guys got the ground lease now it's a fee- simple asset.
So what are the future plans for the asset just given your commentary at the Investor Day that you're interested in selling kind of resorts and the suburban hotels as possible sale candidates in the near term? Right.
The Fairmont itself is an asset that falls into our resort in a suburban portfolio and as we noted in our Investor Day many of those hotels are probably in the midterm-hold category rather than the long-term core asset category.
Right now at the Fairmont we're continuing to execute on our business plans for the hotel.
We think we've got more room to grow profitability in that asset.
We're working directly with Fairmont to come up with a new operating model.
But as a fee-simple asset as you alluded the hotel may be very valuable in the hands of a different owner.
So we'll continue to explore all alternatives there.
Your intuition is good that this is an asset that probably falls in our midterm hold -- our midterm hold class.
Your next question comes from Chris Woronka from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Ken we've seen you got -- your last acquisition I believe was in San Francisco.
We've seen other REITs we've seen the pace of acquisitions slow down a bit.
And we've certainly seen it slow down outside of the West Coast.
I guess the exception of maybe South Florida.
Can you give us some -- your thoughts on kind of why that is and is there -- is it trying to buy up into higher RevPAR markets? Is it more of a longer-term call or is it just some near-term market dynamics? If your question if I heard it correctly you're asking why has there been a slowdown in deal flow among the REITs acquisition deal flow? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
Yes I think there's a variety of factors at play there.
First of all cycle to date many of the REITs have been -- lodging REITs have been relatively acquisitive.
Sunstone itself [ph] we've acquired a number of hotels that fit very squarely within our strategy as we're moving into the fifth year of this cyclical recovery.
We certainly see no signs of the cycle letting up.
But at this point we need to be even more careful and selective about how we identify and execute on acquisitions.
Beyond that cycle to date the REITs have largely been the only player in the game.
And as we've seen over the last year as the CMBS and debt markets have continued to become more and more accommodated we're seeing other forms of ownership step into the buyer game.
Private equity in particular is coming in and they're willing to leverage up and achieve lower returns on these investments.
And as a result certainly from Sunstone's perspective I can't speak for all the other lodging REITs.
In many cases we're simply not able to underwrite the values that others are willing to pay.
When that dynamic exists owners like us tend to shift our focus more toward asset sales along the lines of what we just touched on with the Fairmont and potentially other assets within our portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then just kind of ask about the coastal performance the variance.
Do you guys see that continuing for some time or it just seems as if the spread between West Coast East Coast is wider than we've ever seen? And maybe there's some specific reasons for that in New York and such but do you see that continuing for the rest of the year and beyond or do you think it's going to even out a little bit? The reason we have a geographically diverse portfolio is largely because you will see outsized growth in certain parts of the country and less growth in others.
And we don't see that as being a permanent state of play here as far as the West Coast goes versus the East Coast.
Part of what's happening obviously in the East Coast with New York in particular as that market is just assuming [ph] a great deal of new supply.
We love the New York market long term we love the Washington D.C.
market long term as well yet D.C.
itself will unfortunately have to be absorbing some supply this year as well.
Some of the West Coast markets San Francisco in particular just is not exposed to the supply levels that other gateway markets are.
Largely that's a function of the operating cost structure in the San Francisco market.
It's very difficult to pencil out new hotel development.
Take our Hyatt that we acquired last fall we acquired that for $337 000 per key fee simple in a phenomenal location that's surrounded by nearly 3 million square feet of new office being developed within 5 blocks of the asset so incredible dynamics at play with that hotel.
And yet we were able to acquire that hotel at a huge discount to replacement cost in a market where we simply don't see material supply coming on board again largely as a product of the cost structures in that particular market.
That's somewhat specific to the San Francisco market.
Beyond that in California in particular and also you're seeing this in the Oregon market where we own a hotel in Portland you have a nice eastbound trend in terms of travelers coming from Asian markets.
And then you've got a very pronounced recovery in the housing market which has helped to fuel the overall sentiment from travelers within this region.
As you know the housing market in the west suffered more severely than other markets during the last downturn.
So as the recovery has ensued here sentiment has improved accordingly.
Your next question comes from Smedes Rose from Evercore.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you about the group business that you're seeing for 2015 and kind of at this time of the year what kind of percentage would you expect to see on the books? And I guess where are you relative to what you would maybe see normally here? Sure Smedes.
Appreciate the question.
As I mentioned this year group trends have continued to improve.
And in fact just for 2014 we've seen some late-breaking improvements in the overall pace this year.
I think part of that may be an indication of a somewhat shorter booking window for group business.
As we look toward 2015 our full year revenue on the books is up about 1 percentage point so not hugely.
But for a couple of our hotels they're kind of moving the needle.
D.C.
once again will be -- D.C.
once again will be a bit of a laggard in 2015 with citywide is more or less flat over the current year.
But overall we're seeing a good uptick in trends this year.
We would expect that to follow through given what we've seen recently in the short-term dynamic with group bookings as we move into 2015.
Another piece of the puzzle when you look at pace as I mentioned on the call our pace is at record levels right now for our portfolio as is our occupancy.
We expect to finish this year with an occupancy rate that's roughly 2 points above prior peak occupancy on a same-store basis.
So pace becomes a bit more difficult to read as an indicator as we look into 2015 because we're going to be that much more selective about the types of business that we put into our hotel -- our hotels with a flat pace on a year-over-year basis going into 2015.
With continued growth in business transient trends we see that as a great formula for aggressive revenue management strategies in 2015 and beyond.
Your next question comes from Ryan Meliker from MLV &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
First one should be pretty quick.
Just want to make sure I understand correctly and this isn't alluding to something different.
But your 2Q guidance calls for a diluted weighted average share count of 181.9 million shares.
But as of March 31 2014 according to your capitalization chart on Page 21 of your supplemental you say you ended the quarter with 183.3 million shares.
Help me reconcile that difference are you guys buying back shares or is there something else going on there? No Ryan.
This is Bryan.
The share count and the difference in that versus the amount that's in the supplemental on the -- in the Q is the fully -- is all the unvested employee shares that are outstanding.
When those shares vest they go through a net settlement where a portion of them are basically deleted to pay for the taxes for each employee at that point.
So the 181.9 million and I think at the end of the year it's about 182 million shares for the total share count.
That takes into account that net settlement for all those outstanding employee shares.
Research Division</strong> Got you okay that's helpful.
And then the other question I was hoping you guys could provide some color on was you indicated that in 1Q your overall penetration across your portfolio was around 109% which is obviously attractive certainly above average obviously.
Are there any assets that are material below that 100% penetration level? And are there any opportunities that you guys have to kind of bring those assets up to more in line with your portfolio average? Sure another great question.
Just as -- going [ph] along with my comments of why we own a geographically diverse portfolio.
We also own assets that are at varying levels of penetration within their markets.
Take Boston Park Plaza for example its current index is 78%.
And it ranks relatively low on TripAdvisor in that market.
Our goal is to move that index up.
Now we don't as part of our business plan for the Boston Park Plaza -- and I'll just pick on that hotel as one small example within our portfolio.
Our business plan does not call for that hotel achieving a pro forma index that exceeds 100.
We think in that market given this asset and where the demand trends lie the proper index for this hotel is somewhere between 90% and call it 95% index.
So certainly across the board we have different index goals for our hotels.
You can aspire to achieve significant index levels for assets but the cost of gaining that incremental market penetration in many cases doesn't justify the end.
So we try to be very careful about identifying index targets for each and every one of our hotels some of which are below 100.
Research Division</strong> And then on the flip side do you have any assets that are well in excess of your 109% average that maybe there's risk to them losing some of that penetration rate whether it be peers that are undergoing massive renovations or new supply coming online or something else along those lines? Yes I'll give you a couple of examples.
Take our Philadelphia West Conshohocken Marriott a good little hotel basically on a little island in and of itself within that market.
Supply is not a huge issue for that asset and it just continues to penetrate the market given the depth of the Marriott loyal travelers.
So it's going to be very very significant overall index.
Courtyard LAX is another hotel where we can just yield that asset extremely well.
It achieves 145% 150% index pretty regularly.
So we do have a number of hotels that are high index performers as well.
I think to your point yes some of those hotels may be exposed to supply over time.
But at this point the 2 examples that I just gave you Philadelphia West we don't see supply as being an issue.
And LAX is a deep and very strong market especially given some of the expansions we've seen with the LAX market so we don't see supply as being a huge impact there.
There will be a few hotels coming on over the next couple of years though.
Your next question comes from Lukas Hartwich from Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> What do you think is driving the strength in group business? So Lukas the strength in group business is I think you need to think in relative terms.
We're back to prior peak levels for overall group pace and group demand right now.
And the overall portfolio as I mentioned will end this year on a same-store basis to basically 2 percentage points above prior peak occupancy level.
So overall demand is strong.
The demand side of the date has been driven by business transient.
Group has been late to the party and so you're comping over a relatively slow and soft trend with group business.
And it's just now starting to catch up.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then in terms of the group pace I'm just curious what percentage of your total group business for the year does that represent? Our total business group is about 30%.
Our portfolio is largely business transient.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
What I was trying to get to is much of your business for '14 is essentially locked up.
So you've already got your group business a good portion of it locked out.
I'm just curious what percentage of your total business for the year does that represent? Yes.
Your point is exactly right that for our big group boxes in particular group business is largely already on the books.
Hilton San Diego has 95% of its business on the books.
Orlando has 90%; D.C.
92%.
So the big group boxes have almost all of their group business on the books.
For the transient hotels we're at about 75% 76% of the total expected group business currently on the books.
So you're dealing with smaller groups there and that have a little bit shorter booking windows.
But for the most part much of the group business for this year is already in place.
Where you'll see some uptick is in pickup.
I used the example in my prepared remarks in San Diego.
Traditionally we will budget for pickup against room blocks somewhere in the 60% range in San Diego.
We achieved a 93% pickup in the first quarter.
We don't necessarily -- and we saw several groups increase their overall block sizes yet another indication of the health of group demand in our industry.
We don't necessarily expect those trends to replicate themselves quarter in and quarter out but I think it is a good example into the overall strength of group business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then also the groups the pickup in groups are you also seeing your spending on banqueting and F&amp;B in general? That's a bit lumpy in the first quarter.
We saw -- I'm going to use San Diego as a micro example and then I'll give you broader picture of the whole portfolio.
San Diego while we saw good uptick in group rooms in the first quarter we actually have a situation where many of those group rooms instead of being corporate group where it's in-house business and they're doing a fair amount of group spend most of those group rooms were actually association business.
So we had a slight decline in group spend at that particular hotel.
It was down about 12%.
Portfolio-wide in the fourth quarter we saw an uptick in overall ancillary spend.
And for the remainder of this year we would expect to see -- as the quality of group rooms continue to improve the overall spend itself on F&amp;B and other revenue streams will also increase.
Your last question comes from Thomas Allen from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Two questions on the Park Plaza.
One can you just give us your updated views on what kind of EBITDA you can get from that property down the road? And secondly based on your commentary on leasing out the retail space if I calculated this correctly it implies about $50 a square foot.
Can you just help us think about that and kind of if we could extrapolate to anywhere -- anything else in your portfolio? So Thomas first on the Boston Park Plaza we see that hotel as going from roughly $20 million of EBITDA in its current state to north of $30 million call it between $30 million and $35 million stabilized over the next several years as we execute on our phased renovation.
We touched on this on the prior quarter I'll just reiterate it now that the renovation market itself [ph] to reposition that hotel will take place over several years.
Phase 1 is underway now with the retail space being executed as well as -- in fact many of us are getting on a plane later on this week to do a final design review for the public spaces at that hotel.
Group renovations will take place once again in the next year plus during seasonally slow periods for the hotel.
So you're talking 3 years plus down the line before we expect to start to achieve our stabilized EBITDA levels for the Boston Park Plaza.
As far as retail goes yes we're very pleased with what we're seeing in the overall retail space.
We generate across the hotel -- I just mentioned the roughly 30 000 square feet or 31 000 square feet of incremental lease-up that we accomplished post-ownership.
But the total which is generating roughly $2 million of -- I'm sorry $1.4 million of rent we achieved around $2.3 million of total rent on all the space in the hotels the hotel which includes a McCormick &amp; Schmick's a Melting Pot Travel Traders et cetera.
So overall we achieved around $2.3 million of total rent.
We estimate the valuation of that space using roughly 4.5% to 5% cap rate given market comps at roughly -- on the total space north of $50 million.
Just for the incremental space that we've leased up is north of $30 million.
Research Division</strong> And then just thinking about other retail opportunities I know Vornado for example had their call this morning and were suggesting that they're getting over -- they hit over $4 000 a square foot for some New York City retail.
So just thinking are there -- I doubt there's opportunities like that for you.
But are there other kind of attractive opportunities you can think about? Yes we have one asset in particular where there's clearly some opportunity to extract material value based on where we've seen retail space and kind of [ph] space trade.
And that is our DoubleTree in Times Square.
It's located at 47th and Broadway right in the bow tie great piece of real estate a great facade.
To date it is -- we have not yet optimized that asset.
Ultimately that may be something that we as a lodging real estate investment trust are not the best equipped to execute on.
But nonetheless we own the asset and therefore if somebody's wanting to pay us for the value the ultimate value of the signage retail hotel space we're certainly willing to explore that.
One thing we can -- we're rest assured on at this point is that we acquired the hotel at a very very attractive price point a couple years ago relative to where the market is for that combination of real estate.
There are no further questions at this time.
Please continue.
Great.
We appreciate your time today and we look forward to meeting with you all in the upcoming meetings at NYU and NIRI.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
Please disconnect your lines.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll hear first from Smedes Rose with Evercore.
Hi.
Thanks.
I wanted to ask you; Ken you mentioned group trends pacing for 2014 up 6%.
Is that comparable to the 6.5% that you mentioned on the first quarter call? Is that the kind of apples-to-apples number? That’s an apples-to-apples number recognizing that we did realize some of that pace during the second quarter.
So as a result we’ve moderated down our pace for the full year.
And can you -- you mentioned that the DC property is a little bit of an outlier in terms of the tough comps year-over-year.
Do you have the number without that property in it of what your group pace is for this year? We sure do.
So DC pace right now is down I think as I mentioned on the call about 7.6%.
Rooms are down 7.1%.
Without the DC rent our Q3 pace is up about 8.6%.
That’s about 5% in rooms and 3.5% in rates.
And in the fourth quarter pace is up 7.5% and that’s a 5.6% improvement in rooms and about a 2% increase in rate.
So if you just exclude DC Renaissance from our full year pace it’s about -- it’s up to roughly 8% and roughly 6% of that 8% comes in the form of rooms the additional rooms.
Thanks.
And do you have any sense now of how 2015 is looking? I know it’s kind of early but.
It’s very early.
And I would tell you as I mentioned in my prepared remarks that 2015 pace is more a function of availability.
At this point pace is slightly up for 2015 low-single digits at this point.
It's very early on in the process.
Great.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you Smedes.
Hi good afternoon guys.
I wanted to focus on the Times Square Hotels.
It seems like you’ve been very high occupancy rates there but the growth rate -- the growth in the rate is kind of constrained.
Were there mix issues there or was there something else in the market? Hi Anthony and good morning.
So Times Square as you know we own the DoubleTree in Times Square as well as the Hilton in Times Square.
A couple of factors are impacting growth in those hotels.
Obviously supply is on everybody’s radar screen for the Greater New York market and it’s certainly impacting Times Square.
We’re also being impacted in our two hotels specifically due to a change in the Hilton HHonors program last year.
That change is directly impacting the DoubleTree where we saw a meaningful increase in the point totals that are required to stay in the hotel.
And as a result it's affected the revenue management strategies there.
The Hilton is doing better on a year-over-year basis in part because we completed the renovation last year and it is -- we did improve the competitive positioning of that hotel as a result.
Okay.
Great and a follow up on the Wailea Hotel are there any initiatives you can implement before the renovation starts to help perhaps improve the performance there? Thank you.
Sure.
Thanks Anthony.
I’m going to turn it over to Marc.
Generally as I mentioned in my prepared remarks the investment thesis is pretty comprehensive it’s not just related to the physical product.
There are also opportunities on the sales and marketing and the overall guest experience when on property.
I’ll turn it over to Marc to give a couple of comments on the immediate opportunities we’re seeing.
Anthony thanks.
I think in the revenue management area we’re in the process really of examining the talent.
We are going to add revenue manager to the property.
Current property is cluster managed.
So we’re going to add one.
We believe that a more detailed day-by-day examination of revenue management will help.
There are some strategic shifts that we'll make over the next three to six months particularly in the fact that the wholesale market that we’ve been dealing with we had several large wholesalers that did not put the hotel in.
We're going to be working to improve that.
From a standpoint of the top line we’ll have a resort fee in the hotel.
We’ll be doing some work with that and changing some of the parameters that we believe will help not only the financial side of the hotel but it will also help the guest experiences as we layer in more value to that.
And then lastly from the physical side we are really just in the preliminary design stages and we actually have hired our design team.
It’s completely onboard.
So we’re not letting any grass grow.
We have our first major design meeting and positioning meeting there on August 25th.
I want to ask you on the dividend outlook.
I think you modestly changed from $0.50 to $0.60 over to $0.50 to $.055.
What was driving that? Hi Chris.
I’ll turn it over to our finance team.
As you realize or as you probably know we raised some equity during the quarter to fund the Wailea acquisition.
Also during the quarter we refined our overall taxable income projection.
So we did tighten that range.
Let me turn it over to John and Brian for more specifics.
Hi Chris it’s Bryan.
The change tightening that range is a result of two things; One the addition of shares that were part of the offering to acquire Wailea and impacts the per share piece of that and then as we get farther into the year and update our depreciation and specifically the assets that are going into service that we’re renovating updating that depreciation for the full year.
And then also as the different hotels looking at their performance the profitability of the TRS will then impact the amount that we are distributing out.
So it’s just those three things.
As we refine our projections for the year they just tightened in.
Okay got you.
And then just on asset sales with the relative strength in the market is there any are you maybe a little bit closer to selling some of the non-core stuff than you were last quarter? Certainly.
We’re at least one quarter closer to doing that Chris.
Market conditions certainly have improved from a seller’s perspective.
So we’re exploring a few different scenarios where we harvest gains around the lower end of our portfolio.
Stay tuned for more information on that over the next quarter or so.
Great thank you.
What do you guys think the endgame is for Hilton's stake in the Bayfront? We can’t speak for Hilton at this point.
I can tell you that we love our investment in the Bayfront.
We see a great potential in that market.
And at this point I believe Hilton is quite happy to be a co-investor in that property.
I would also say that under the right circumstances we’d be very happy to own 100% of the equity in that deal.
So right now we have got two happy investors.
The way the JV is structured are there any sort of I don’t know contractual points down the road where you guys will address the ownership stakes there?  No if you’re looking for a specific floater call rate within the contract no there is not.
Just taking a bigger step back philosophically we as an owner would prefer doing all of our assets 100%.
And again we love having Hilton as a partner.
We have a great relationship with them both on the manager side and again of course on the co-investor side here.
But just for simplicity and for ease of execution we prefer to always own our assets outright.
Great and then just maybe perhaps a question for Bryan.
Sunstone's got quite a bit of debt coming due in ‘15 through ‘18 and I’m just curious if you guys can proactively maybe term or ladder some of those maturities out so that they’re not all kind of lumped together in one period? Hi Lukas.
Well the first step of that was what Ken announced in his prepared remarks is that the Hilton San Diego which came due in 2016 we are working on extending that out to ‘19.
The 2015 maturities are smaller hotels.
The first one’s that come due in May of next year roughly a $100 million over four assets.
We’ll look at several different options to term those out.
Obviously the CMBS market is very aggressive these days the term loan market is very aggressive.
And then as we get into ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 some of the ‘18 maturities have prepayment options in ‘16.
So we’ll have a lot of opportunity to re-stagger those maturities at that point.
Yes Lukas it’s John I'd just add on to that that given where our current leverage profile was now as Bryan said we have access to multiple forms of capital instead of asking the question just what’s available to us.
It’s really we’re selecting through the best options available to us and we will continue to stagger.
That maturity schedule will continue to source the lowest cost of that capital and look at it holistically on our balance sheet.
But on the 2015 maturities we have so many different options available to us to take care of those and you should know and you’d be able to clean this from the information in the supplemental that each one of those assets is easily re-financeable even if the debt markets were to sour or in the incredibly remote and unanticipated event that operating fundaments would sour as well.
So we feel very good about where we are.
All right.
Thank you.
Hi good quarter guys.
Just a couple of quick ones here.
First of all I was wondering if you have it can you provide the RevPAR on a quarterly basis for your current pro forma portfolio of 30 hotels going back to 3Q last year.
I just want to make sure from a seasonality perspective including Wailea that we’re pulling everything in correctly? Sure Bryan has got that in front of him.
Just give us a second.
Why don’t you move onto your next question? We’ll compile that for you.
Yes the other question that I was hoping you guys could answer for me was with regards to Wailea it looks like you guys are estimating that the impact that Wailea is having on your overall portfolio comparable RevPAR growth is actually down 25 basis points.
It seems like a pretty big number especially before the renovation impact.
Can you walk through what’s driving that? Is it just that you guys are figuring out what to do? Is it some transition period where you might experience some slower growth or is it just that the overall market isn’t performing that well.
I’m just trying to think about why you’d be seeing such low RevPAR growth at Wailea that’s going to impact your entire portfolio negatively by 25 bps this year? Yes.
That’s a good question.
And to highlight that we acquired this hotel in a condition that’s not enabling it to take a position of great leadership in the market.
This year is a soft year overall for Maui and for Wailea in particular.
And as a result this hotel the 544 Marriott Wailea will be flat in RevPAR.
That flat RevPAR as you can see from our guidance is impacting our overall numbers by about 25 basis points.
So we include any hotels we acquired during the course of the year on a pro forma basis for the full year numbers.
I think what you’re seeing this year in terms of underperformance of this asset supports our investment thesis that these 22 acres in a world-class market like Wailea that is currently underperforming to this level on a very strong market otherwise or very strong U.S.
domestic market otherwise again underscores our investment thesis and points to a pretty significant pricing upside.
Marc do you have more color to add there? Sure thanks.
Look you really have to look at Wailea against two sets.
If you look at it against the main set that we have which is the Sheraton the Hyatt and Westin Kaanapali and the McKenna we’re actually slightly behind them.
That set is up 7.4% for the full year.
We’re up 3.3%.
We’re actually driving higher occupancies at roughly 86%.
They’re at 82% and they’re driving 3.3% in ADR growth we’re driving 2.2.
I think that doesn’t surprise me given all the things we’ve seen both product wise and organization wise.
And so I think from that standpoint we would expect it.
Compared to the higher end luxury set we’re clearly trailing them and that’s a combination of all the things that Ken spoke about.
Okay.
That make sense.
And then if you guys are looking at flat RevPAR growth was it up over a point? So far you’re assuming that RevPAR is going to be negative in the back half of the year? That’s correct.
It is going to be down slightly.
Okay.
And then the next question on Wailea was when you guys announced the acquisition you mentioned that Marriott might be able to provide some type of operational support with regards to the renovation impact.
Do you have any color on how that’s starting to shape out? Yes Ryan you may have missed this in my prepared remarks.
We did enter into a new contract with Marriott as part of the acquisition.
The contract gives us better controls over capital investments in the property better controls over property level decisions and it also gives us $5 million of yield support throughout the renovation.
I did miss that.
So $5 million of yield support.
Based on the I guess the underwritten yield that you guys agreed to upfront? That is correct.
Go ahead.
It’s based on target performance levels in 2015 and 2016.
I can’t get into all the specifics but I noted in my prepared remarks that we would expect to realize about $2 million in 2015 and $3 million in 2016.
Wonderful.
Thank you.
Sorry I missed that.
Okay.
And then Bryan were you able to come up with the quarterly RevPAR? Yes.
The RevPAR for Q3 2013 was $159.24 Q4 was $146.90 and then Q1 of 2014 is $140.70 in Q2 for the 30 hotel portfolio I think you have in the supplemental.
Yes we got that.
Okay.
Wonderful.
Thanks a lot.
I appreciate it.
Thanks Ryan.
Good morning.
Just some pretty simple stuff here.
On the New York City real estate you own a condo interest in those two hotels in Times Square.
Does the condo own the land or is that unleased land?  So both of our New York properties are on ground leases.
Okay.
And what’s your thought on appetite for recycling those or other optionality relative to those assets? We are look David I think that’s a fair question with respect to any of our hotels.
If there is a higher and better use or buyer base that's willing to pay a value that exceeds the value of those hotels under our envelope and we’re happy to look at selling.
Right now we love the New York market long-term.
It will be impacted over the next few years to this new supply that’s coming on.
Certainly Times Square will not be immune to that but over the long-term we think New York is a great place to be.
That said if somebody knocks on our door and wants to pay an astronomical number for either of these two hotels we believe we bought them both very well.
We will certainly be all yours.
Okay.
And then perhaps not in Times Square but in the rest of your portfolio do you see other land lease buyout opportunities? We continue -- we are down to nine ground leases at this point.
We bought the Fairmont land this quarter and we'll continue to stay in front of all of our ground lessors just like just as I said with our ownership structure where we prefer to own hotels 100% on the equity side.
We would also own -- prefer to own the fee in any of our assets.
So we’ll continue to stay in front of that.
There are no contractual rights on our play today to acquire leased land but we’ll stay in front of our lessors and eventually these opportunities tend to popup.
They just have to predict.
Great.
Thank you.
You’re welcome David.
Hey good afternoon guys.
A couple of questions.
First on Boston good results in the quarter.
And I know its early stages in the renovation there but just curious if you've been able to gain market share at that asset to date.
I know that the plan is not to be at parity perhaps but just curious what you've have been able to accomplish on that front? Sure.
Let me hand it over to Marc.
We have been -- while he is pulling this information together we’ve been very pleased with how the hotels performed during the course of the renovation.
As we noted we’re up roughly 9% year-to-date in RevPAR even while we've been blowing up the façade and the sidewalk and everything else to run the hotel.
And we had a very very strong July with almost 19% growth in the RevPAR.
Still index is going to be a tough one to put -- to draw any conclusions from.
I’ll give it to Marc to give you the specifics but at this point we don’t expect the gains in index will be reflective of the hotel's true index potential once we’re done with the renovation but we certainly have seen some green lights on the index side.
So Marc why don’t you give us that? Sure.
Thanks Ken.
We had a very good July and look we’re positive year-to-date and while we are excited about always being positive I think it’s not reflective given the where the hotel stands at the bottom.
So we had a great July.
We were up 17.4% and we picked up significant index.
The comp set was at 9% year-to-date.
We’re at 9% in index or 9% RevPAR growth the comp set is that 6 and again we picked up 300 basis points over the comp set.
We think that that’s reflective of what we did and obviously we’re very pleased with that but we have far more meaningful goals post-renovation and think that we will achieve those goals.
Okay great.
Thanks for that color guys.
And then one more question on Wailea.
Given that the renovation is taking place in stages in ‘15 and ‘16 just wondering what your thoughts are as far as the cycle is concerned and what the ramp-up period post-renovation is going to be according to your underwriting and if you just worry that we might run out of cycle before you can kind of earn back the returns on that asset.
Thanks.
So Rich I'll give you the high-level response to that one.
And as you know we’re highly cognizant to the cycle.
Our entire strategy is predicated on doing the right things for the company during the course of this cycle which means reducing our leverage improving our financial flexibility maximizing our liquidity towards the peak of the cycle so that we can play off hence rather than defense during the next cyclical trough.
We don’t see that next cyclical trough or even a current an inflection to the current growth phase on the horizon.
We see a lot of green lights.
A lot of factors are pointing towards prolonged albeit continued moderate growth for this cycle and that could be three four or more years of growth in front of us.
If this cycle runs out and we haven’t completed the renovation with Marriott absolutely no change in our investment thesis.
We’re not worried about single-asset initiatives and in fact if the cycle were to end tomorrow that would be a better time for us to be embarking on a renovation program at this hotel.
So we bought this hotel for all the right reasons.
We bought it because it’s clearly a diamond in the rough.
It’s clearly got upside potential.
We shouldn’t be acquiring any hotels where we don’t have the opportunity to meaningfully create volume through our own initiatives and we’re certainly not worried about the timing of this renovation and where it might -- where it might land versus the cycle.
And I realize that that doesn’t necessarily comport with the mindset of all investors and that’s okay.
Any investors who are concerned about quarter-to-quarter growth for earnings can jump back into the stock as soon as we start to wrap up this renovation.
We’re happy to have you guys back.
All right.
I appreciate that color.
Incidentally I agree with you about the cycle.
Just was curious for your thoughts? Yes it’s factored into our model.
It’s just clearly not a deciding factor in how we’re proceeding with this renovation.
Okay I appreciate the color.
Thanks.
You’re welcome.
Great.
Thank you everybody for your participation on the call today and thanks for your interest in Sunstone.
We look forward to speaking with you all in the upcoming weeks and months.
Enjoy the rest of your summer.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today Monday November 3 at 9:00 am.
Pacific Daylight Time.
I will now turn the presentation over to Bryan Giglia Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Carolyn and good morning everyone.
By now you should have all received a copy of our third quarter earnings release and supplemental which were released this morning.
If you do not yet have a copy of these you can access them on our website at www.sunstonehotels.com.
Before we begin this call I’d like to remind everyone that this call contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties including those described in our prospectuses 10-Qs 10-Ks and other filings with the SEC which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
We caution you to consider those factors in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
We also note that this call may contain non-GAAP financial information including EBITDA adjusted EBITDA FFO adjusted FFO and hotel EBITDA margins.
We are providing that information as a supplement to information prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
With us on the call today are Ken Cruse Chief Executive Officer; John Arabia President; and Marc Hoffman Chief Operating Officer.
After our remarks we will be available to answer your questions.
And with that I’d like to turn the call over to Ken.
Ken please go ahead.
All right.
Thank you Bryan and thank you all for joining us today.
On today’s call I’ll start by reviewing the highlights of our third quarter earnings report; next I’ll discuss our portfolio quality improvement program with specific updates on our renovations of the Boston Park Plaza and Marriott Wailea; and finally I’ll go over our balance sheet liquidity and guidance before I conclude our prepared remarks with some thoughts on our business going forward.
To begin strong demand particularly on the West Coast and in Chicago and Boston helped to drive a 7.7% increase in our comparable hotel RevPAR during the third quarter.
Our RevPAR growth was primarily attributable to improving average daily room rates which were up 6.9%.
At the same time we realized a slight increase in occupied rooms which were up 60 basis points to an occupancy level of 86.4%.
To put the current strength of demand for lodging into context when taken on a same-store basis our Q3 occupancy was more than 3 percentage points above our portfolio’s prior peak occupancy for the third quarter.
Our hotel level growth in the third quarter was broad-based with 13 of our 30 hotels generating double-digit RevPAR growth.
In fact our Marriott Long Wharf Marriot Portland and our Renaissance Westchester together posted average RevPAR growth north of 20% for the third quarter.
RevPAR at our Boston Park Plaza was up 14.8% as the hotel ran better than 95% occupancy for the quarter.
It’s worth noting that the hotel achieved this exceptional growth when we were in the midst of our ongoing build out of the hotel’s first floor retail space as well as considerable infrastructure work on the hotel’s elevators façade roof and sidewalks.
Additionally even our Renaissance Washington DC which has struggled this year due to difficult comps a weak convention calendar and the opening of new Marriot Marquis turned in a 5.8% RevPAR growth during the third quarter.
Our third quarter RevPAR was negatively impacted by our to-be-repositioned Marriot Wailea where RevPAR declined by 2%.
While the current RevPAR performance of our Wailea Marriot is a clear indication that this is a hotel in need of repositioning it should be noted that the hotel actually outperformed our underwriting in the third quarter and is currently on track to beat our 2014 underwriting by roughly $500 000 on the bottom-line.
More on Wailea in a moment.
Drilling down a bit into our revenue management strategies with portfolio wide occupancy at a record high level and with dimensions continuing to improve our operators have focused on increasing transient rates to proactive revenue mix management.
This strategy has helped to increase our premium business portfolio wide.
Specifically in the third quarter by design we kept our total discounted room nights essentially flat while we meaningfully increased the average daily rate attributable to the discount segment by more than 11%.
Our operators accomplished this by closing out lower rated discount channels while increasing rates across other discount channels.
With respect to our contract business and contract business is generally airline cruise for us we’ve riddled down this segment considerably over the last few years.
Where we’re keeping some contract business we now have considerable pricing power.
Specifically in Q3 we reduced our contract room nights by more than 6% while increasing the average daily rate attributable to this segment by more than 19%.
And finally with respect to our target premium business during Q3 we increased both our premium rated room nights and our premium average daily rate with premium room nights increasing approximately 4% and premium average daily rate increasing by approximately 5% resulting in a 9% overall improvement in our premium segment revenues.
Our JW Marriott New Orleans Hilton San Diego Bayfront and Marriott Portland Hotels all executed effective mix management strategies in the third quarter.
As a result premium transient revenue grew by an average of more than 30% for these three properties combined.
In addition to strong rooms revenue growth during the third quarter our comparable portfolio banquet revenue was up 13.5% as group ancillary spend continues to improve.
We achieved strong banquet revenue increases at several hotels including our Renaissance Washington DC Renaissance Orlando and our Hyatt Regency San Francisco as well as our Renaissance Westchester.
While banquet and catering revenue growth has been somewhat sporadic during this recovery soft in some quarters strong in others we see our Q3 banquet trend as a positive indication that group spend for occupied room is strengthening.
Given our current occupancy levels we would expect incremental increases in rates to drive margin expansion and this is exactly what we saw in the third quarter.
Solid top line growth and focused expense controls help to drive our comparable hotel EBITDA margins up 190 basis points to 32.2% on 55.1% comparable flow through.
These factors resulted in a 15.5% increase in same store EBITDA.
Our solid hotel operating performance helped to push our adjusted EBITDA nearly $5.4 million or 6% above the high end of our guidance range.
Similarly our adjusted FFO per share came in $0.02 also 6% above our guidance.
Notably as compared to the third quarter of 2013 our adjusted EBITDA increased by 31% while our adjusted FFO per share increased by 13%.
Our strong trends have carried forward into the fourth quarter and we are currently seeing particular strength in Orlando Los Angeles and Hawaii.
Looking ahead our group production which we define as all future group rooms booked during a quarter grew 15% in the third quarter to its highest level over the last seven years.
This growth was driven significantly by our Hilton San Diego Bayfront where the team booked several large outyear group blocks.
The Hilton Bayfront is now booking groups into 2016 and 2017 at significant rate increases to current levels.
In addition in the far outyears of 2018 and 2020 the Hilton Bayfront has already successfully booked groups into lower demand holiday periods that typically more difficult to secure.
Portfolio wide our year-to-date group production is now up more than 8% well above last quarter where our year-to-date group production figure stood at a positive 4.5% as compared to the same time last year.
Our current full year 2014 group pace which we define as group revenues on the books for the current year for all 30 hotels is up 5.5% versus the same period last year.
For 2015 our group pace is currently up 1.5% which is driven by 3.2% increase in rates and 1.6% decline in rooms on the books.
Two factors are now limiting the number of group rooms our hotels are booking while giving our hotels increasing pricing power in setting group rates.
Specifically at already record high occupancy levels space availability has become a limiting factor.
Additionally given the continued strength of transient business in certain instances hotels are foregoing lower rated group blocks in anticipation of yielding higher rated transient business.
In short our business fundamentals and leading indicators clearly point toward ongoing growth in hotel revenues and profits.
Shifting now to our hotel quality improvement program locating diamonds in the rough such as Boston Park Plaza and the Wailea Beach Marriott Resort and mining the untapped value in these great assets through smartly positioning and proactive asset management is a fundamental and proven component of our strategy.
And executing on well timed appropriately scoped renovation projects is a core competency of our team.
For example while we still have a long ways to go in terms of improving bottom-line performance year-to-date at our recently renovated Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile RevPAR is up nearly 20% over pre-renovation levels and the hotel has increased its year-to-date RevPAR index by more than 14 percentage points.
Likewise as compared to pre-renovation levels our year-to-date RevPAR is up by more than 19% at our Hyatt Regency Newport Beach or the hotel’s year-to-date RevPAR index has increased by more than 20 percentage points of our pre-renovation levels.
The index for our Hyatt Newport Beach house improved in part because our newly improved hotel is now able to charge a $15 resort fee.
And finally at our newly renovated Renaissance Westchester RevPAR is up by more than 19% year-to-date as compared to the last year prior to renovation.
So now let’s shift to the specifics of our current renovation program.
We invested $27.5 million into hotel improvements during the third quarter and we’ve invested $93.4 million into our portfolio during the first nine months of 2014.
These portfolio investments have been largely funded through operating cash flow.
This year we have renovated the standard guest rooms at the Hyatt Regency San Francisco.
And over the next year we will further improve the hotel’s competitiveness by systematically renovating the atrium and meeting space in a generally non-disruptive manner.
Also during the third quarter we substantially completed the rooms and public space renovations of our Hilton St.
Charles in New Orleans.
Additionally our two major repositioning programs the Boston Park Plaza and the Wailea Beach Marriot resort continued to move forward on plan.
I’ll spend a moment now updating you on these two major value-add projects.
In Boston we’ve made significant progress on our Phase I infrastructure project investing approximately $8 million during the quarter.
To-date we have completed the replacement of the hotel’s sidewalks and roof.
In addition we have substantially completed a comprehensive rehabilitation of the hotel’s façade and we continue to make progress on our elevated modernization and retail build out.
Separate from this infrastructure work we’ve worked to convert the hotel’s second floor and third floor office space into approximately 6 500 square feet of quality meeting space.
This project effectively consolidated non-revenue generating back office space from several floors into one location.
Last week we began Phase II of our Boston renovation program which includes work on what we referred to as the podium of the hotel.
The podium includes all public spaces and meeting rooms on the hotel’s first four floors.
We’ve intentionally scheduled this work to be completed during the seasonally slow winter months so we anticipate minimal business disruption.
We expect the podium work will be substantially finished by the beginning of the second quarter of 2015.
While high quality transient business will be the Boston Park Plaza’s primary demand segment group customers are already responding well to our repositioning plan and we’re actively selling the to-be-renovated meeting and public space to group accounts for the seasonally strong period of April to November next year.
Additionally we’re seeing a strong pick up in our catering pace which is currently positive for 2015 despite our deliberate plan to close the meeting space for renovations for the first three months of the year.
Year-to-date we’ve already invested nearly $16 million to improve the Boston Park Plaza during which time the hotel has posted better than 11.5% RevPAR growth.
We believe this is a good indication of the strength of the hotel’s Central Boston location and should serve as a harbinger of the hotel’s significant post renovation revenue and earnings potential.
Shifting out to the Marriott Wailea Beach Resort first let’s discuss the low hanging fruit.
After acquiring the hotel on July 17th we immediately implemented several asset management initiatives including reorganizing the sales and revenue management teams reworking our revenue management strategies and adjusting our resort and parking fees.
Our asset management team is now participating directly in weekly revenue management calls and the hotel has made strong progress pushing up bar rates and reducing discounted room inventory.
While we inherited the weak third quarter when we acquired the hotel in mid July we now project Q4 RevPAR to increase between 11% and 12% for this hotel.
And as I noted earlier we now expect the hotel to beat our pro forma cash flow for this year by roughly $500 000 before we’ve even begun executing on our transformation plan for this asset.
So now turning to the heavy lifting for Wailea.
We’ve made significant progress during the last two months in developing a complete master plan for the hotel.
And we’re moving quickly to the design and documentation phase for the entire resort.
Our plan for this exceptionally located but poorly positioned hotel is to create a well defined cohesive destination resort experience to improve resort activities new pool experiences transform food and beverage offerings and enhance guest accommodations and better overall interaction and visual connectivity with the resort’s natural surroundings.
We will couple the physical improvements to the resorts with service enhancements and meaningfully improved sales marketing and revenue management programs.
As we proceed with the planning and internal approval phase we have refined our renovation timeline.
We now expect to complete our renovation of the meeting space and our refresh of all guest rooms suites and corridors in 2015.
During 2015 we will also roll a brand new catering and banquet experience at the resort.
Having now worked through the timing windows we believe our 2015 renovation work will be minimally disruptive.
Over the past three months we’ve continued refining our vision for Wailea and in the process we’ve gain a better appreciation for this exceptional property’s true potential.
As a result our confidence and expectation for the hotel’s long-term cash flow and value appreciation have grown incrementally more positive.
We’ve provided more information on our repositioning programs for Boston and Wailea including timing scope and budgets in the updated company presentation available on our website.
I’ll now turn to the balance sheet.
At the end of the quarter we had $1.5 billion of consolidated debt and preferred securities.
Notably our consolidated debt to total capitalization ratio at the end of Q3 was a very healthy 31.9%.
This is a reduction of nearly 5 percentage points from our leverage ratio just one year ago at the end of Q3 2013.
The balance sheet is strong with significant capacity and our leverage is now among the lowest in the lodging REIT space.
While we will continue to focus on maintaining balance sheet strength and naturally deleveraging through the remainder of the growth cycle we believe we are now appropriately levered to what we expect will be several years of strong growth for our business.
Our debt has a weighted average term to maturity of 3.5 years and on average interest rate of 4.7%.
Our variable rate debt as a percentage of total debt now stands at 29% and we have no debt maturities until the second quarter of 2015.
I’d like to give our friends at Green Street Advisors a plug at this time.
About a week ago they put out a great report titled What Me Worry which remind us of the merits of maintaining fiscal discipline and adhering to a low leverage balance sheet.
The report notes the asymmetric risk reward relationship presented by higher leverage capital structures for REITs especially economically sensitive lodging REITs.
This piece was a good reminder of why we at Sunstone continue working to create meaningful long-term shareholder value by carefully improving our portfolio of quality and scale while at the same time remaining stubbornly focused on gradually building balance sheet strength and financial flexibility.
To this end we’re currently working to proactively address our 2015 debt maturities through the refinancing that will capitalize on the currently very low interest rate environment while further extending out and lettering our maturity schedule.
We expect to provide more detail on this pending refinancing later in the fourth quarter.
Moving to dividends.
Today we declared our fourth quarter dividend of $0.36 per share.
The dividend will be payable at the shareholders’ election in either stock or cash.
The cash component will be capped at approximately $37 million or $0.18 per share which equates to 50% of the total dividend.
Our Q4 dividend will bring our total 2014 distribution to $0.51 per share which is $0.33 in cash and $0.18 in stock.
For perspective the operating cash flow we will retain by employing an $0.18 stock dividend will be reinvested back into our business.
In fact we expect this retained cash to fund more than 70% of our planned 2015 renovation work for both the Marriott Wailea and the Boston Park Plaza.
While we have yet to determine the size or composition of our 2015 dividends based on current business trends we would expect to see an appreciable increase in 2015 taxable income and distributions as compared to 2014.
Now turning to guidance.
As a full reconciliation of our current guidance can be found on pages 23 to 25 of our supplemental as well as in our earnings release I will be brief.
We’ve increased our adjusted EBITDA and adjusted FFO per share guidance for the full year of 2014.
Specifically we now expect to generate adjusted EBITDA between $309 million and $313 million this year.
This is a $10 million increase to the midpoint of our prior full year guidance and a $6 million increase to the top end of our prior full year guidance.
We’ve also increased the midpoint of our adjusted FFO per share guidance range by $0.04.
Clearly we are seeing a lot of green lights as we look toward the remainder of 2014 and into 2015 and beyond.
To wrap up we’re now concluding the fifth year of a slow lodging recovery that began in December of 2009.
Lodging industry fundamentals are highly constructed and point toward continued improvement in demand and profitability potentially for years to come.
In fact at this point absent a black swan event our industry’s leading indicator suggest the current growth pace should continue unabated for a longer period than we previously assumed.
With sentiment improving demand increasing occupancy rates at all-time highs and new hotel supplies generally in check we believe our operating leverage coupled with our prudent financial leverage should drive meaningful profit growth for the next several years.
Sunstone’s high quality and geographic and brand diverse portfolio stands to benefit to a larger degree than many of our peers given the potential from meaningful tailwinds as we complete our major renovations and repositionings over the next year or two.
In spite of Sunstone’s unique positives investors today have the opportunity to buy our portfolio at a below industry average multiple and at an average valuation of just $325 000 per key a material discount from market comps and replacement value.
Our long-term goal is unchanged and our execution of our plan over the last three years speaks for itself.
Our growth-based strategy calls for building considerable shareholder value by improving our portfolio quality and scale while improving our financial flexibility.
We have considerable opportunities in front of us and we are confident we will continue to deliver in the quarters and years to come.
With that we thank you for your time today and for your continued interest in Sunstone.
Let’s open up the call to questions.
Carolyn please go ahead.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And we’ll go first to Rich Hightower with Evercore ISI Good morning everybody.
Good morning Rich.
Good morning Rich.
Couple of questions first on Wailea.
It looks like the CapEx budget actually came down slightly if you think about it from a midpoint perspective to 60% to 65% I guess down from 65%.
And I’m just curious what changed there; obviously it’s a positive.
Well what changed is when we acquired the hotel we had a pretty good vision for what we wanted to accomplish for the hotel.
We prudently built in a fairly significant question into our estimates.
We’re going to continue to refine our plan and Rich I’d tell you at this point I would expect our renovation scope and budget is pretty consistent with what we thought it was going to be.
Okay great.
And then my second question quickly just curious for the appetite for dispositions I know you guys have made statements in the past year you’re pretty happy with portfolio as it is.
But even perhaps selling a core asset to Hilton for instance which is eventually going to have quite a big check to spend on acquiring assets.
Just wondering what the appetite is on that front? Yes look Rich we like your thinking on that.
We’ll continue to explore ways to create value for our investors that may not be a 100% consistent with our stated strategy.
And certainly as we move into the mature phase of the cycle harvesting gains in certain of our assets and especially capitalizing on buyers who maybe highly compelled put capital to work it’s something that we’re exploring we’re in conversations; we have nothing to report today but we will certainly continue to explore that.
Great thanks.
That’s all for me.
You’re welcome.
Thanks Rich.
And next we’ll go to Nikhil Bhalla with FBR &amp; Company.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
Just a quick question on how you speak about the dividend for next year given that balance sheet is in great shape and you’ll have again very good income.
Any preferences on reviewing common dividend versus another special dividend next year and around that? Thank you.
Look I appreciate the question.
I think FBR has been fairly consistent in their stated views on cash dividends.
As I noted in my prepared remarks you can expect our taxable income will increase next year but we’ll continue to think about the size and the composition of the dividend going forward.
I should point out this is a good opportunity us for to reiterate our view point on dividends at Sunstone.
We’ve been fairly consistent all along that investors were looking to invest in a yield vehicle probably would be well advised to not look at the REIT space lodging REIT space.
Lodging REITs are highly economically sensitive and more capital intensive business.
For us we believe that retaining cash flow and calling it back into our business and generating superior returns in that way is the right strategy that’s a little bit different from some other guys.
But as I said our stock portion of our dividend this year will be sufficient to fund 70% of the major renovations that are going to go on next year in Boston and Wailea.
So we think that’s a pretty compelling use of cash and we believe our -- many of our investors will agree.
All right okay.
And just one more follow-up question on development opportunities not just in your portfolio but in any acquisitions you may look at in the future.
Are you thinking that you would have to look at acquisitions more from something that has a margin specifically given your… that maybe the best return on money or are you still thinking about maybe ready for more stabilized assets any preferences on those? Well first of all we have two major renovations in front of us.
And so our focus as a business is largely on executing well on those renovation plans.
As we talked about we’re deploying a fair amount of our capital into those assets.
And so that’s our primary focus today.
Certainly we’ll continue to explore acquisitions but that would not be step number one I would say in our business plan at the moment.
As far as the characteristics of hotels that we acquire as I noted in my comments one of our core capabilities is repositioning of assets and adding value to diamonds in the rough as I described Boston and Wailea.
One of our other core competencies of course is proactive asset management.
And you saw some of those efforts with respect to Wailea and our fourth quarter turnaround in terms of RevPAR growth.
So in general we’ll look to acquire hotels where we can add value and where our prior ownership has maybe not capitalized on all the value-add opportunities.
But the general viewpoint from our company as we sit here today is that acquisitions are going to be a backburner for a little while.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
And next we’ll go to Ryan Meliker with MLV &amp; Company.
Hey good morning out there.
Just a couple of quick questions.
And I wanted a little bit of a piggyback of one of Nikhil’s which is with regards to acquisitions.
I’m just wondering what your appetite is for select service hotel acquisitions.
We’re obviously seeing a lot of capital chasing that space.
You guys I think the last service hotel you bought was the Hilton Garden Inn in Chicago.
Just wondering how happy you’ve been with that asset and if you’d be looking to expand the select service portfolio within your overall portfolio? Look in general select service especially in urban locations can fit very squarely within our investment profile.
We’re going to shy away from high yield select service assets that are located in secondary and tertiary markets especially the lower RevPAR assets but the Hilton Garden Inn Chicago is a great example of something that fits squarely with our strategy.
A hotel where we were able to add some value through renovation work.
It’s a component of a three asset Nucleus in the market of Chicago.
And so we’ve been able to gain some operational and revenue management synergies by owning that asset.
We’ll continue to look for those types of targets and we’re certainly not going to shut out select service in those types of locations.
Marc you want to add some? Sure.
We were static with the Hilton Garden Inn Chicago recently finished its rooms and lobby renovation.
They were in 93% occ and had strong RevPAR growth ADR growth at 9.2% and 12.1% RevPAR last year compared to our comp set.
We were in better occ stronger rate growth and as anticipated our post renovation hotels outperformed the comps set in the market.
So we’re very very pleased and then have good strength as well in what I’d refer to as our Tripack in Chicago where we’re looking to have RevPAR growth in the fourth quarter between our three hotels of 23% plus at the Hyatt 12% plus at the Embassy Suite and 10% at the Hilton Garden Inn.
Hey Ryan this is John Arabia.
Just to add on to that there is one final piece of this to all come together remember that we also own the Embassy Suites directly across the street and eventually we will combine the management the operator of those two hotels.
So that is a final piece that we anticipate we think will be positive for those hotels both hotels.
That’s good color.
Thanks guys.
And then the second question I had just I’m not sure if you can give me an idea of how to think about this but obviously mix shift within transient segment has been a pretty positive dynamic across your portfolio driving some RevPAR growth.
How do we think about how much mix shift is left how is your premium segment as a percentage of total transient today relative to past peaks things along those lines like how are you guys thinking about the opportunity for mix shift I guess? Sure.
And Ryan let me take this to start off and Marc can give you some very good detail on this.
But from a high level perspective you heard me talk about our occupancy in the third quarter.
You heard us make similar comments in the second quarter and the first quarter.
Occupancy levels for our portfolio and this goes for our industry are above prior peak level; the demand for lodging is above prior peak.
And yet ADR in general from those portfolios is falling short even on a nominal basis before inflation of prior peak levels.
We’ll re-attain prior peak this year.
But clearly we look at that disconnect between where demand is and where rates currently are as a clear opportunity for us to proactively and aggressively push rate in our hotels.
A lot of that is going to come through mix shift a lot of it’s going to come through smarter tactics in terms of when and where we put the group blocks.
Let me give it to Marc a little bit more for some of the specific tactics which he and his team are employing.
Hey thanks Ken.
Just some highlights first I mean we ended up with 860 plus sell outs in Q3 of ‘14 and continue to have very strong demand as we talked about on the call.
I think look the reality of it is mix shift as you noted does get to a point; at this point we’re probably starting to see real pure rate aggressive movement.
We’ll continue to mix shift out but we’re now starting to put our foot on the gas and really start to push rate in the pure rate increases probably more than the pure mix shift side of the business.
And then we continue to see very positive trends in the movement of ADR transient revenue was up 8.4% with 7.1% of that being ADR and premium revenue was up 8.9% with 5% of that in ADR.
And I think as Ken talked about compared to the prior peak if you look at the prior peak of rates and where we’ve gone through a gap of seven or eight years there is clearly room to move the pure rate.
And so our conversation with our operators now particularly in ‘15 now is going to be on the movement of ADR through rate as much as it is through mix shift.
Great.
That’s really helpful.
Thanks a lot guys.
I appreciate all the color.
Thanks Ryan.
And our next question will come from Chris Woronka with Deutsche Bank.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
You guys seen some nice lift out of some of the renovations the Hyatt Chicago; the Renaissance Westchester how much of that is -- I assume it’s somewhat of multi-year benefit and you’ve got a lot of it in ‘14 but how should we think about what’s kind of the trajectory on those two or maybe more broadly for the recent renovation projects? Yes.
First of all I’d refer to you to the investor materials that we put online which will give you an indication of our thinking today as it relates to Boston and also Wailea in terms of what the potential for those assets are.
I’d say for the assets that we’ve recently renovated obviously you’ve got a mixed bag there in terms of when the renovations were completed and how far along way are in the ramp-ups.
But typically what we see with these post renovation trends is depending on the marketing program and the sales efforts of the hotel a ramp up can take anywhere from 12 to 24 months before it’s fully baked into the numbers.
And then we pitfall a typical arc if you will in terms of the hotel’s growth from that point forward.
Yes.
I mean let me give you some highlights that will help.
I mean look we clearly believe that you have a multiyear glide path post renovation.
It’s not a one year and it’s not a two year.
It is clearly multiyear.
We’re into really our third full year with the Hyatt Chicago.
We’re currently 28% ahead of group pace in Hyatt Chicago.
2015 will show the same increase at Hyatt Newport Beach.
We’re up 45% in group pace in Hyatt Newport Beach.
Westchester we’re up 39% in group pace.
So when you look at those which are really three definitive turnarounds consistent is this continuing growth into improving long-term index in the building.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Also I want to ask you on New York.
We all know some of the supply issues there.
Your I guess kind of third quarter RevPAR was that more a function of supply do you think or was it more -- are we still kind of cycling some of the effects of the [HRS] program at the Double Tree? It’s largely attributable to supply.
You can see the Hilton for example had okay growth in the third quarter.
That’s partly a discontinued recovery as Mark was referring to post renovation.
The Double Tree has not been renovated other than the public spaces and that hotel did basically turn in a flat third quarter this year.
So overall this is the effect as anticipated of the significant amount of new supply hitting the market.
Okay.
Very good.
Thanks guys.
You bet.
And next we’ll go to Thomas Allen with Morgan Stanley.
Hey guys good morning.
Just on Wailea you know that Wailea was running about $500 000 ahead of your underwriting expectations for the year.
How much of that was industry growth versus kind of your asset management next year that you highlighted versus timing just trying to extrapolate that for next year and going forward? Thanks.
I’d say that this year -- first of all our underwriting was done back in June and July so we’ve kind of built in the market trends into our underwriting and had certain expectations from where we saw this hotel heading.
I would say that this year’s outperformance is a product of a couple of things; one is that as I test on in my prepared remarks the team has been effective in getting in there and very rapidly and trying to find some low hanging fruit and executing on that low hanging fruit whether that’s changing up the composition of the resort fee and adjusting our charge for parking program changing the revenue management strategies which were an obvious opportunity that we identified during our underwriting.
Those things some of those things can happen very quickly.
And you’re seeing those asset management initiatives take hold on some of this year’s numbers.
None of this year’s uptick in terms of operating performance is related to timing of renovations that was always anticipated as taking place in 2015 and 2016.
Still will take place in ‘15 and ‘16 but now as we’ve had an opportunity to refine our windows and look at our business patterns in 2015 and the nature of the work that we’ll do in ‘15 we actually feel that our 2015 impact in terms of operational displacement will be relatively small versus what we initially anticipated.
Marc you had more color? Sure.
Really as it relates to Q4 of this year to your comment is it basically just market driven that would be no.
I mean the market is going to have a good Q4 but we will do considerably better than the market in Q4 but we have changes that both the hotel and us have worked through collaboratively particularly around wholesaler and the transient ladder and the structure of transient rates.
So we believe that that will be very positive for us compared to just the general comp set.
All right thanks.
And this is my follow-up.
Can you just update us on your latest thinking around the performance of your major market next year? So do you see at some of the West Coast market New York? Thanks.
Sure.
Marc you want to take that? We can go to city wise because several markets are going to be down DC and Baltimore will be slightly down in city wise Boston and New Orleans will also be slightly down in city wise whereas San Diego and Chicago will be positive on a city wise front.
Sure.
I mean look I think generically we think DC while the market is down slightly we think we will see an improved performance out of our hotel next year compared to what we saw this year.
Orlando is very strong.
The number of total visitors to Orlando is now north of 56 million and continues to grow.
The addition of the second Harry Potter at Universal has been a big demand and our group pace that that hotel is up strong and so we see a very strong Orlando.
Boston we believe with little to zero new inventory in the market will continue to be a very strong performer for us.
We think Baltimore which hit this year has had its best RevPAR growth in a while.
We think we’ll continually sort up on a low to moderate growth.
San Diego we expect while there are more room nights in the city the number of major conventions are down slightly but we also see a strong performance out of San Diego San Francisco speaks for itself it’s been a strong market and we believe that will not change.
New Orleans is probably on the softer side but we had two great markets two great hotels that are now basically fully renovated and on strategy and we think will perform well.
Chicago has a strong market talent and we expect solid performance.
And Houston our two Houston hotels we feel will continue on their similar trajectory based upon the demand in that industry.
All very helpful.
Thank you very much.
Welcome.
And our next question will come from Lukas Hartwich with Green Street Advisors.
Thank you.
Hey guys.
You’ve provided a bit of color but also I hope you could maybe walk through your last year’s acquisitions and how they’ve been trending versus your original underwriting? Absolutely.
In fact last year’s acquisitions are looking pretty good against our prior underwriting.
So New Orleans is ahead of underwriting and again I think that’s an asset that we’ve renovated this year as per our plan when we acquired it.
That hotel is now checking well so it’s a few hundred thousand dollars ahead of our underwriting on the bottom-line.
Hyatt San Francisco is also tracking very well ahead of our underwriting and we didn’t touch on Hyatt San Francisco and it’s a very tactical comment but it did stumble a little bit in the third quarter.
This was more of an operational challenge the revenue management challenge than I think a market issue and we noted that in terms of the hotels index performance; trust us we’re all over that one and we see that hotel is continuing to improve strongly over the next year several year or so.
That asset is ahead of underwriting.
Marriott Wailea we touched on is ahead of underwriting.
Boston Park Plaza is behind underwriting today slightly behind underwriting largely because of some insurance costs that have come in a little bit higher than anticipated it and a little bit on the property tax side is slightly higher than anticipated.
But all-in-all if you add up the acquisitions that we made last year and this year we’re actually right on target in terms of our underwriting.
Great.
That’s helpful.
Yes sorry to interrupt Lukas but Boston Park Plaza; I made a comment about Wailea that we’re incrementally positive in terms of the long-term potential of that asset.
I should have made that exact same comment as it relates to Boston Park Plaza.
So you saw on the third quarter that hotel turned in 14.5% RevPAR growth.
We see 2015 and beyond as being very strong years for that hotel.
So the fact that it’s a little bit behind what we thought was going to be this year is not a concern from our perspective.
Okay.
And then there is a lot of land at the Marriot Wailea.
I’m just curious if you could provide any color on the options that Sunstone’s considering maybe undertaking with that land? Yes.
And we look at the land from two different lenses.
First of all the 22 acres in that location is incredibly valuable.
It’s potentially incredibly more valuable to somebody who would own that land under a format that’s not involving a hotel or doesn’t solely involve a hotel.
That’s not our plan A.
Our plan A is to maximize the potential of this resort as a hotel on the 22 acres.
But we see the land is having a nice waxed out value to the extent we ever look to monetize this hotel.
There is density there that can be capitalized on prior ownership has looked into potentially putting additional restaurant or additional revenue generating facilities on the space.
We’re exploring a variety of alternatives there but again plan A at this point is to maximize the attractiveness and the competitiveness of the existing spaces truly meaningfully redevelop and enhance the recreational facilities there.
Kind of Phase 2 if you will will be to explore even deeper tapping of the true value of the additional land.
Great.
That’s it for me.
Thank you.
Thanks Lukas.
And we’ll take our next question from Anthony Powell with Barclays.
Hi good morning.
Good results this morning.
The question on acquisitions a lot of your peers have mentioned desire to acquire more independent hotels you remain very heavily lever to the brands.
So what is your view on buying more independent hotels or self-operated hotels going forward? Good question Anthony.
We are and we said this in the past brand agnostic and I would say that that goes down to being flagged agnostic as well.
A good example would be our Boston Park Plaza hotel.
We’ve got optionality there in terms of putting a brand in place but we think our best plan at this point will be to continue forward in an unbranded capacity gives us a lot more flexibility to execute on our business.
We see it without having to adhere to brand standards both in terms of the physical product and the operating standards.
So right answer for that hotel.
In other hotels depending on the market and the brand representation in that market having a flagged hotel can be a very good thing and it’s certainly primary to our strategy.
We look at the brand that’s representing the deepest and most stable source of demand through all phases of the cycle.
And so while times are good right now and independent hotels and good cheap hotels are doing quite well who is also tend to be the higher paid assets during downturn.
So when we explore flagging decisions on any hotel we try to look through all phases of this icon and make the decision based on not just what we’re seeing today but what we may see over the next 5 years to 10 years.
Certainly it does not preclude us from doing unbranded hotel; it’s just one of the considerations that we put into our model.
Great.
One more on the Double Tree in Times Square there is a lot of redevelopment activity in that submarket in light of retail signage.
Have you explored doing some work on that hotel and maybe generating some incremental value by adding many new there? Thank you.
Yes.
Anthony thanks for recognizing that.
The value of that street corner at 47th and Broadway clearly opportunity in Times Square for retail and signage and John in particular has led several initiatives to explore maximizing the signage and retail value of that hotel.
We’re going to continue to be super careful and smart about how we go about this.
But we agree with your comment that there is a need value there and taking the appropriate steps overtime to unlock that value something we’ll continue to explore.
And John you want to…  Sure Anthony.
As you can see just walking by holding for example the signage and the retail is probably not maximized to its true potential.
And I’d say is we’re working on various aspects of the Double Tree Times Square.
And I think we’ll have something to announce more formally during the next couple of quarters just on an incremental basis with the opportunities there.
Great.
Thank you.
Yes.
And we have no one else in the queue at this time.
I’ll turn things back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
All right.
Hey thank you Carolyn and thank you all for joining us on the call today.
We appreciate your thoughtful questions.
And we look forward to meeting with many of you over the next several days at the NAREIT conference.
Thank you.
And that will conclude today’s conference call.
Thank you everyone for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter and Full Year Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session instructions will be given at that time.
I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today Wednesday February 18 2015 at 9:00 am Pacific Standard Time.
I will now turn the presentation over to Bryan Giglia Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Adra and good morning everyone.
By now you should have all received a copy of our fourth quarter earnings release and supplemental which we released yesterday.
If you do not yet have a copy you can access it on our website at www.sunstonehotels.com.
Before we begin this call I’d like to remind everyone that this call contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties including those described in our prospectuses 10-Qs 10-Ks and other filings with the SEC which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
We caution you to consider those factors in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
We also note that this call may contain non-GAAP financial information including EBITDA adjusted EBITDA FFO adjusted FFO and hotel EBITDA margins.
We are providing that information as a supplement to information prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
With us on the call today are John Arabia President and Chief Executive Officer; Marc Hoffman Chief Operating Officer; and Robert Springer Chief Investment Officer.
After our remarks we will be available to answer your questions.
With that I’d like to turn the call over to John.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Bryan and thanks all of you for joining us today.
On today’s call I will first provide a few highlights of our hotel performance and then the current operating environment.
Second I’ll give an update of our exciting value add repositioning projects in Boston and Wailea as well as an update of the renovation of the Hyatt Regency Embarcadero.
And third I’ll provide a few thoughts regarding the current investment environment.
Next Marc will review our 2014 operations in detail and will highlight operating expectations for various markets in 2015.
Bryan will then walk through our recent capital transactions which have left us with considerable financial flexibility and will also provide earnings guidance for the first quarter and full year 2015.
To begin with our portfolio continued to perform well in the fourth quarter.
While RevPAR growth came in on the lower end of our initial guidance food and beverage revenues and other revenues were stronger than anticipated.
These revenue increases coupled with strong expense controls and 120 basis point increase in hotel EBITDA margins produced adjusted EBITDA and adjusted FFO per share at the high-end and midpoint of our expectations respectively.
Our two hotels in New York City continue to face the headwinds of additional supply and more recently have experienced softer international visitation as a result of the stronger dollar.
However we continue to experience strong growth in markets such as Boston Orlando and most of the West Coast as demand strengthens occupancies continue to grow and pricing pressure intensifies.
Furthermore lower oil prices are already having a positive impact on transient bookings in Wailea as air fares to Hawaii are showing year-over-year declines.
Overall our portfolio occupancy has surpassed the prior peak levels and we are seeing greater evidence the group business both in terms of room night demand and total group spend is improving.
Marc will provide more detail on this in a moment but I think it’s worthwhile to highlight that several of our hotels are now limiting group room nights and shifting group patterns to lower occupancy weekend nights due to the strength of midweek transient demand.
Furthermore our group rates on tentative bookings are up meaningfully from prior year.
These are very good trends.
Now let’s talk about our recent and ongoing capital projects.
We expect to invest between $165 million and $180 million to renovate and reposition our hotels in 2015.
More than half of this capital will be invested in our three most recent acquisitions.
This includes $41 million to $45 million at Boston Park Plaza $22 million to $24 million at the Marriott Wailea and $28 million to $31 million at the Hyatt San Francisco.
All of these renovations and repositionings are proceeding as planned and our capital budgets in general have not changed.
We expect to incur approximately $3 million to $5 million of revenue displacement this year or an incremental $1 million to $2 million compared to the roughly $3 million of revenue displacement witnessed last year.
To put this into perspective the high-end of our 2015 disruption forecast equates to 40 basis points of our anticipated 2015 total property revenues of roughly $1.25 billion.
So let’s talk in more detail about each one of these three projects beginning with Boston Park Plaza.
In 2014 we invested roughly $30 million into Boston Park Plaza primarily in the hotel’s street level retail space and infrastructure including the hotel’s facades roofs elevators and HVAC systems.
Even in its recent condition which included scaffolding jack hammering elevators out of service and major construction activity in the lobby and meeting space since late November the hotel had a terrific year.
The hotel gained 210 basis points in RevPAR index in 2014 increased RevPAR by 8.7% and produced $20.6 million in hotel EBITDA.
We are on track to be substantially completed with the renovation of the first four floors of the hotel which includes all the meeting space the lobby a 20 000 square foot David Barton gym and all first floor retail by the end of this first quarter.
The renovation work completed thus far looks absolutely fantastic and we’re really excited about the hotel’s earning potential.
We are already seeing the benefits of the new space even prior to completion as now we are selling to groups that would not have booked with the hotel prior to the renovation.
Our second quarter 2015 group pace is up 13% and our year-over-year catering revenues between April and December are up 32%.
Now on to Maui to our Marriott Wailea Beach Resort.
2014 ended strong at the Marriott Wailea with fourth quarter RevPAR up 14.6% and full year hotel EBITDA increasing modestly to $20.4 million.
The full year earnings exceeded our underwriting by $1.1 million.
This outperformance translates into an EBITDA multiple of 16.1x on our purchase price which is almost a full term below the EBITDA multiple we expected when we announced the acquisition last June.
Additionally the resort is expected to have solid growth in ’15 which will be slightly offset by approximately $1 million to $1.5 million of expected renovation displacement.
However the $2 million guarantee payment that we expect to receive from Marriott in 2015 should more than compensate for this renovation displacement.
We continue to move forward with implementing our asset management initiatives and will complete a soft good renovation of all guest rooms and a full renovation of the meeting space this year.
We’ll then finalize the hotel repositionings in 2016 with extensive improvements to the common areas and pools in order to materially elevate the resort’s experience and to make the property far more competitive.
Now on to San Francisco.
While the Boston Park Plaza and the Wailea Marriott are comprehensively positionings the already completed and remaining renovations at the Hyatt Regency San Francisco are far more routine in nature.
In 2014 we completed the renovation of all guest rooms and suites.
In 2015 we will complete a refresh to the meeting space and lobby throughout the year in order to minimize disruption.
We’re looking forward to strong growth at this hotel in 2015 with RevPAR growth expected to exceed the market’s growth.
In summary the renovation and repositioning of these assets are proceeding as planned and we remain excited about the growth prospects of these hotels.
And finally I’d like to spend a minute regarding our approach to the current investment environment.
Clearly the acquisitions market has become more competitive over the last 12 months as both public and private equity players remain active buyers of institutional quality hotels.
As a result return expectations for hotel real estate continue to narrow and pricing expectations remain robust.
This trend has made it somewhat more difficult for us to compete for attractively priced hotel acquisitions.
That said we will continue to look for acquisitions opportunities for high quality hotels that we believe will produce unleverable [ph] terms in excess of our cost of capital.
And conversely we will continue to explore and monetizing hotels that do not fit within our long-term portfolio strategy.
With that I’ll turn it over to Marc to discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2014 operating results and the current operating environment.
Marc please go ahead.
Thank you John and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
I’ll review our portfolio’s fourth quarter and full year 2014 operating performance in greater detail.
Focusing first on the fourth quarter we saw our comparable RevPAR growth 6% to $155.69 through a 4.4% growth in ADR and 120 basis point improvement in occupancy.
This occupancy growth led us to achieve when taken on a same-store basis a fourth quarter occupancy that is 100 basis points above our portfolio’s prior peak occupancy for the fourth quarter.
Overall 11 of our hotels generated double-digit RevPAR growth during the fourth quarter including our Renaissance Orlando Marriott Wailea and Renaissance Long Beach.
With occupancy continuing to be at record-high levels and with demand trends continuing to improve our operators have focused on increasing transient rates through proactive revenue mix management.
This strategy has helped to increase our premium business portfolio-wide specifically in the fourth quarter.
We continue to focus on decreasing our reliance on discount channels.
During Q4 all our discount segments declined by 4.4% in room nights while increasing a strong 5.7% in average rate.
Likewise we continue to reduce our contract business considerably.
And while we are keeping some contract business in place such as certain airline crews we now have considerable pricing power.
We reduced our contract room nights in Q4 by 14% and increased our contract rate by nearly 24%.
On a full year basis contract room nights declined by 6.6% with a very strong rate growth of 17%.
In Q4 we saw a 1.3% room night decline in special corporate but a 5.9% increase in the special corporate rate.
Our hotels have limited availability midweek and are starting to close out the lower rated special corporate as well.
Moving on to the results for the full year 2014 our comparable portfolio RevPAR was up 6.8% to $160.11.
For 2014 nine of our hotels generated double-digit RevPAR growth led by three of the major 2013 renovations the Hyatt Chicago Mag Mile Hyatt Regency New Port Beach and the Renaissance Westchester.
A few key revenue management highlights for 2014 include the following.
Our premium room revenue improved 9.5% driven by a 6.6% increase in premium rated rooms.
Our corporate negotiated ADR grew by 4.3%.
And finally our discounted room segments grew by 8.1% with a discounted room nights decrease by 1% as our operators effectively shifted mix into both higher rated segments and higher rated discount segments.
Overall for full year 2014 our portfolio had a 7% increase in sell-out nights as compared to 2013 which is the fifth consecutive straight year.
Moving on to group trends for full year 2014 our 30 hotel comparable portfolio is up 7.1% in group room night production for all current and future years driven by significant group bookings at several of our hotels including Renaissance Washington DC the JW Marriott New Orleans and our two Houston hotels.
We continue to see strong group trends throughout our portfolio.
More importantly our 2012 2013 and 2014 renovated hotel trends remain positive as they continue to benefit from the renovations.
Looking forward into 2015 our current group pace for all 30 hotels has increased by 5.3%.
Our current growth is coming from rooms and rate with group rate growth at 3.2%.
We’re seeing group strength in several of our hotels next year as well such as the Renaissance Orlando Renaissance Washington DC and Hyatt San Francisco.
However our group pace is being hindered by Marriott Wailea which we underwrote as having a tough coming off an all-time high year and Boston Park Plaza which is being impacted as we’ve discussed by renovation during the first quarter.
Now let’s spend some time talking about a few of our key markets in 2015.
Washington DC as an overall market is expected to be slightly positive in RevPAR in 2015.
PKF’s most recent forecast for 2015 for upper priced hotels indicates a 3% increase in RevPAR.
Our DC Renaissance group pace is a healthy 8.7% for the full year of 2015.
However we continue to see some pockets of weakness in our transient business based upon market demands and the ramp-up of the 1 175 room Marriott Marquis.
As we stated last year we remain very very bullish on Washington in the long-term.
And especially with strong city-wide years in 2016 and 2017 it should be highlighted that our Renaissance DC group pace stands at plus 15% for 2016 and plus 21% for 2017 respectively.
Specifically to our hotel we expect the continuing progress and completion of the unique city center mixed-use project located at the front door of our hotel will bring an upsurge in transient demand in the long term.
New York.
New York is expected to continue to lag behind the remainder of our portfolio and struggles to grow RevPAR as a market.
We believe that New York as an overall market will have minimal growth due to the new supply both in the city and in the Times Square submarket.
While we saw solid growth at the Hilton Times Square in 2014 due to the new product and gaining back the displacement from our 2013 renovation we expect the Hilton to perform with the market in 2015.
Our hotels will have a difficult time growing rate in this significantly increasing supply environment.
Boston as an overall market is expected to maintain its very strong performance in 2015 and beyond.
The market will see the same number of city wideness [ph] compared to 2014.
In addition there is limited supply growth across this market which when combined with peak occupancies and several hotels should lead to strong rate growth.
We are projecting our three Boston hotels to deliver between 6.5% and 8.5% in combined RevPAR in 2015 adjusting for the renovation displacement at the Boston Park Plaza.
In San Francisco as John discussed we expect to have a very strong performance in 2015 with RevPAR being one of the top-three markets in the nation.
San Francisco with its greater macro environment along with flat to minimal increase in supply will continue to outperform.
Our particular hotel is expected to perform very well in 2015 with our current group pace plus 17%.
Now let’s turn to Orlando which continues to experience strong demand in both the group and transient segments.
Our hotel expects to have a significant growth in group rooms driven off of an increase of higher percentage of corporate group and continued strength in transient revenue through aggressive mix management and to result as the upside of all of the work that we’ve done in the hotel over the last few years.
We expect our Renaissance Orlando to deliver between 7% and 9% RevPAR growth in 2015 after a very solid growth in 2014.
Let me turn now to Bryan to review our liquidity and guidance.
Bryan please go ahead.
Thank you Marc.
During the fourth quarter we executed on a series of financing transactions that increased our liquidity lowered our cost of capital and enabled us to address all of our 2015 debt maturities.
In December we refinanced the existing 5.45% $38 million mortgage secured by the JW in New Orleans with a new $90 million 10-Year 4.15% fixed rate loan.
The additional proceeds will be used to repay the remaining $99 million of debt that comes due in May of 2015.
Additionally we repaid the 6.6% $67 million on the Embassy Suites La Jolla for a total cost of $71 million.
The load had 4.5 years left on it with a maturity of June 2019.
And we paid a $4 million premium so we could refinance the debt with the new $65 million 10-Year Fixed rate loan at 4.12%.
Not only were able to save $1.6 million a year of interest over the remaining term of the existing debt which resulted in a 30% return on our prepayment we were also able to extend the maturity to 2025.
Finally during the quarter we issued 1.25 million shares of common stock through our ATM program at an average price of $16.12 and gross proceeds of $20.2 million.
The combination of these transactions combined with cash on-hand resulted in $304.2 million including $82.1 million of restricted cash at the end of 2014.
Of the $222 million of unrestricted cash on the balance sheet which included net proceeds from all three fourth quarter financing transactions $37 million was distributed in January to satisfy our fourth quarter dividend and $99 million will be used to repay the May 2015 maturities which include the Marriott Houston Marriott Park City Marriott Philadelphia West and the Marriott Tysons Corner.
In addition to our cash position we have an undrawn $150 million credit facility and 14 unencumbered hotels soon to be 18 unencumbered hotels once we repay the 2015 maturities.
During 2014 these 18 unencumbered assets collectively generated $132.5 million of EBITDA.
At the end of the year we had $1.5 billion of consolidated debt and preferred securities which include 100% of the $228 million mortgage secured by the Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
Our debt consists of entirely a well-staggered non-cross mortgage debt and preferred security.
Our debt has a weighted average term-to-maturity of four year in an average interest rate of 4.5%.
Our variable rate debt as the percentage of total debt stands at 28.4% and we have the cash on hand to repay all of our 2015 debt maturities.
We are exceedingly comfortable with our current leverage profile and our ability to continue to achieve our long-term credit milestones.
Consistent with our track record we’ve built over the past several years we expect to further improve our balance sheet and increase our financial flexibility in a gradual and shareholder-friendly manner yet we retain considerable flexibility to take advantage of opportunities as they present themselves.
Now turning to the 2015 guidance.
A full reconciliation of the current guidance could be found on page 17 to 19 of our supplemental as well in our earnings release.
It is also important to note that as of January 1 2015 the lodging industry adopted a new uniform system of accounts referred to the 11<sup>th</sup> edition which changed the way certain revenues and expenses had recorded on the Hotel’s income state which the net impact to EBIT is neutral the 11<sup>th</sup> edition does change the composition of certain line items impacting the previous presented or the previous presentation of hotel revenues expenses and hotel EBITDA margins.
To make our comparisons easier we have restated our RevPAR in a hotel EBITDA margins for the full year 2014 in our release and supplemental.
While the 11<sup>th</sup> edition incorporates several changes to the hotel’s financial statements there are two major changes to note.
First rooms revenue has been impacted by the change in classification for rooms rebates.
Previously these rebates were classified as commission expense but will now be netted against rooms revenue.
This will reduce the reported rooms revenue and rooms expense as stated in 2014 by $2.6 million.
The other major change in the 11<sup>th</sup> edition is that food and beverage revenue and expense has been increased by the portion of service charges that are paid to employees as a gratuity.
Previously the service charge paid out was excluded from revenues and expenses and treated as a pass-through.
Now the employee portion will be treated as both revenue and expense therefore increasing our food and beverage revenue and increasing our food and beverage expenses.
This change results in an $18.9 million increase in both food and beverage revenue and food and beverage expenses as compared with what was reported in 2014.
Now to the 2015 guidance for the first quarter we expect RevPAR to grow between 5% and 6.5%.
We expect first quarter adjusted EBITDA to come in between $58 million and $61 million.
And we expect first quarter adjusted FFO per diluted share to be between $0.18 and $0.19.
The midpoint of this range implies a 23% growth in our adjusted FFO per share as compared to the first quarter of 2014.
Our full year 2015 adjusted EBITDA guidance ranges from $336 million to $356 million and our full year adjusted FFO guidance ranges from $1.22 to $1.32 per share.
At the midpoint this implies an 8.5% increase in FFO per share as compared to 2014.
With that we’d now like to open the call to questions.
Adra please go ahead.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll go first to Ian Weissman at Credit Suisse.
Yes good morning.
Good morning Ian.
Good morning.
Just a quick question on New York City.
As I weigh your comments about the concerns of just the general marketplace and then you factor in the eye-popping icing that foreign buyers or just anybody’s paying for real estate in New York City today.
As you think about your non-core asset sales over time how should we think about the potential for selling an asset or so in New York City over time? Yes.
Marc and I both had comments on the operating fundamentals in the city which we think are kind of flattish this year and in some situations could even be negative.
But getting to portfolio management and whether or not we would consider selling one of those assets - let’s put it this way Ian there’s no asset within our portfolio that is off limits from a sale.
If we can transact and create shareholder value or sell an asset in excess of our whole value and we will consider it more towards that.
Well let me ask you the question this way.
At the beginning of the cycle when you guys were transforming the company let’s call it your goals was to sort of reposition the portfolio and get out of some non-core markets which lets us common non-gateway city markets.
At this point in the cycle could the non-core assets sales include assets which would be more inclined to sell assets in gateway cities today is the question.
I think that’s very fair.
Yes more so than where we were several years ago.
I believe so yes.
Okay.
And just a little bit more of micro question on Houston just given all the talk about that marketplace I know you had some color about the market in general.
But have there been any sort of group cancellations on a look-forward basis at this point? Or it’s still business as usual in Houston? Hey Ian it’s Marc.
Good morning.
No there have been no cancellations.
It is business as usual.
We have started to see some smaller pick-up in group.
We’ve seen some less traction on the business trends as one might expect.
But no nothing meaningful at this point.
Business as usual.
But we do expect to see some slight declines as we move forward.
But if rooms back up that could change as well.
Okay.
Thank you for all the details in the prepared remarks.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
Welcome.
We’ll move next to Bill Crow at Raymond James.<u></u> Hey good morning guys.
I’m going to pick up where Ian left off there with New York.
You stated flat to slightly negative.
Is that do you think representative of the market or do you think your portfolio there your assets are going to perform in line with above or below the market? So Bill good morning.
Our two assets which are incredibly well-located.
Our two asset as you know the double Doubletrees on 47<sup>th</sup> and 7<sup>th</sup> right next to the tickets booth and then the Hilton Times Squares on 42<sup>nd</sup> Street midblock both phenomenal locations that run incredibly high occupancy levels.
You really have to dissect the market.
There are hotels that are coming online to continue to ramp up occupancy where we cannot.
We’re already running in rough range 98% occupancy year round at these hotels.
And so we really don’t have the ability to push occupancy any further.
Whereas the market does have some benefit of new hotels entering the market that are ramping up occupancy.
So from that perspective even though we are very very well-located don’t be surprised that we underperform the general market a little bit as to most of the call it stabilized hotels do in the market.
All right.
And then John in your early prepared remarks you talked about a noticeable decline in inbound international travels in New York.
And we haven’t heard that from anybody else thus far.
So I’m just curious how good your information is on the demand side from international travelers.
Yes it’s not something that we’ve seen noticeably so far.
We have seen - no go ahead Marc.
Yes.
I mean we - in actuality we’ve only seen about 2% decrease in international bookings.
I think in general that look I think the international markets will decline slightly at this point.
But I think that we’re not prepared to say there’s any dramatic decline at all I think at this point.
The exchange rate will make it complicated and a little more difficult.
But overall I don’t think we’ve seen market decreases in that area.
Great.
That’s all for me.
Thank you.
Thanks Bill.
We’ll go next to Lukas Hartwich at Green Street Advisors.
Great.
Thank you.
Hey guys my first one is for Bryan.
As you pay down property level debt are there any plans to tap different debt sources? Good morning Lukas.
When we look to finance debt or refinance debt we look at the property.
We look at what the best source of capital is for that property whether it’s more of a long-term hold or something we would look to divest in the short-term and then would match the debt appropriately whether it would be floating in shorter-term or long-term fix.
We do look at a variety of different sources including the potential of increasing the capacity of our credit facility and then also potentially looking into other bank debts such as term loans which would provide more flexibility on assets down the road.
That’s helpful.
And then just kind of a more broad question I know we’ve kind of touched on this already.
But thinking about the stronger U.S.
dollar and lower oil prices how you guys think about the net impact of those two factors? Does it make you incrementally more positive or incrementally more negative or is it a wash? Hey it’s Marc.
I think because as we look at them I think that I see it more as a positive.
At the end of the day we have an enormous amount transient rooms around the country and transient business is driven heavily by drive-in and by fly-in.
And as long as the airline ticket prices stay down and there is an enormous amount of people traveling it’s only’ going to be a good thing.
Again we are concerned somewhat about the dollar strength for our European customers pricing.
In general we look at it as a positive.
It’s very helpful.
Thank you.
And we’ll go next to Thomas Allen at Morgan Stanley.
Hey good morning.
Last quarter you guys talked about some potential opportunities with the signage and retail at the Times Square property.
Given what’s happening in the New York market with a new supply and some softer trends in the first quarter how are discussions going about kind of monetizing those opportunities? Thank you.
We don’t have current plans to monetize those signs or I will tell you that beside the Doubletree Times Square we have plans to put a far more extensive sign package.
And that’s something that we have been working on for some time.
It’s not so significantly material to the earnings of the company but it’s additive.
Okay.
That’s all I had.
Thank you.
We’ll move next to Chris Woronka at Deutsche Bank.
Hey good morning guys.
I just wanted to drill down on the guidance a little bit.
And I understand that visibility is down a little bit as you go out.
But I think your annual is 5% to 7% and I think in the first quarter you’re saying 5% to 6.5%.
So it kind of seems like you’re implying that the rest of the year would be in line or maybe even a little bit better with first quarter.
And that the comps get pretty tough in 2Q 3Q.
Just how should we - maybe your level of conviction or confidence in that relative to what you put out say this time last year? Good morning Chris.
I think that we look back at our track record in how we approach guidance.
And I think that we try to provide guidance that is attainable.
So when we look at the spread between quarters we are very confident in what presented.
Now the first quarter there is the renovations in Boston there are the Super Bowl comp in New York although as stated we think New York will have the headwind for the rest of the y ear.
So with those two major items those are weighing on the first quarter RevPAR.
But looking at the rest of the year we feel comfortable with the guidance provided.
Okay fair enough.
And then just thinking about potential acquisitions.
You guys I assume will have a good result in Boston and in Wailea.
But those are obviously some heavy lifting projects.
Since we are moving through the cycle what’s your appetite to do once those are done? And I know it’s looking out a little bit.
But would you still do something that transformative say next year? Because I think maybe that’s potentially where you can add more value as opposed to just buying something that’s a going in yield.
So I guess more of a cycle update thoughts from you.
Yes I think that value add opportunities present ways to create outsize shareholder returns.
I think we are good at it not only in terms of applying the right amount of capital but also the asset management initiatives in marrying the changes in the operations to those types of assets particularly assets that have really lost their edge.
I think that that is one of our core competencies that over the past couple of years and the next couple of years I think will prove to the markets that that’s a core strength.
Right now I’d say our plate is fairly full even though we’re starting to digest Boston Park Plaza which will be - the podium will be done here in call it 68 weeks.
And Marc and Robert Springer and Guy Lindsey have already done a tremendous amount of work in the design implementation for Maui.
Embarcadero that’s largely in the can.
I mean that’s really been at this point we need to execute on what’s been designed.
But that heavy lifting a lot of that has been done.
So I think we need to just manage where we are in terms of how much of the heavy-lifting value add we take on at any one time.
I don’t think that 2015 or I believe I said differently I think that it’s unlikely in 2015 we would take on another one of those projects.
’16 maybe start opening up a little more.
And then after that depending on how successful we are and how the market receives the work that we do at these two assets I think it’s on the table.
Okay.
Very good.
Thanks John.
Sure.
And we’ll go next to Anthony Powell at Barclays.
Hi good morning everyone.
On the dividend - there was no dividend guidance for the full year given in the release.
How are you looking at the overall dividend to 2014 and also how are you planning or thinking about good mix between cash and stock? Good morning Anthony.
Our view on the dividend hasn’t changed.
Our policy and what was declared for the first quarter was the $0.05 quarterly dividend.
You should expect to see that over Q1 through Q3.
And then while we have not obviously declared or set the policy for the fourth quarter dividend at this point our expectation is it would be similar to what we did last year and obviously with EBITDA growth taxable which is comparable to the taxable income growth.
That fourth quarter dividend based on the current would be larger than what we had last year.
That dividend was $0.36 in the fourth quarter.
That dividend could be in the kind of $0.40 to $0.50 range based on current guidance.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
And on Chicago the market did very well to you guys in the fourth quarter.
How is ’15 looking on a booking trend? How are the citywides and how are the supply [ph] growth look in that market? Yes.
This is Marc.
Thank you for the question.
Chicago as you did say we had a strong fourth quarter and a good year.
2015 the citywides are positive.
We have about 11% increase in group room nights for the entire market.
Look we know that there continue to be more hotels coming into Chicago.
It’s probably second or third highest increase in new available rooms and there continue to be silly developers moving forward on some other development as we move forward.
From a standpoint of 2015 pace our pace in Chicago at all three of our hotels is up nicely north of 5% to 6%.
So we feel good about our hotels in Chicago particularly because they’re exceptionally on strategy in terms of the product and service and their position and their acceptance by customers.
All right.
That’s all for me.
Thank you.
And we’ll go next to Ryan Meliker at MLV &amp; Company.
Hey guys thanks for all the detail in the markets and the hotels in the prepared remarks.
That was really helpful.
I had two more questions.
I was hoping you could first of all with regards to guidance particularly margins in 2014 you guys came in at RevPAR towards the high end of your 2015 guidance range of 6.8% and margins were up 150 basis points.
And then the high end of your guidance for 2015 is just 100 basis points.
Is there something going on in there that you’re not going to see quite as strong margin expansion on ’15 on similar RevPAR growth than you saw on ’14? Hey Ryan it’s Bryan.
There are a couple of items that are weighing on the margins in ’15.
One certain jurisdictions were pretty heavy-handed when it came to real estate tax assessments.
There is a few markets where we are currently - we receive the higher valuation.
We’re in the process of appealing it now.
The real-estate tax impact has about 30 basis points of impact on the margins.
The good news is that those are markets where the appeal and decision is something that typically happens in the year that they are appealed so we won’t have a prior-year adjustment.
Well once we have our verdict there we’ll be able to adjustment accordingly.
The other weighing factor on margins would be the growth in New York City.
And obviously with the cost structure that’s involved with those hotels are weighing about 30 basis points on margin also.
Yeah I thought it might be something like that.
That’s helpful and that makes sense.
So it sounds like if you win your property tax appeals there is upside to your margin guidance for the year is that correct? Yes I would not expect all of it but -- Sure.
The good news is we will have resolution in the year.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then the second question I wanted to ask you guys was - so you ended the quarter $304 million in the balance sheet.
You clearly have more than enough capacity between a leverage stand point coupled with liquidity from the cash to fund your redevelopment or renovation projects and your 2015 debt maturities.
What was the reasoning for issuing [indiscernible] on the ATM at a price point that’s over $1 below where the stock is trading today? It doesn’t seem like there was a use of proceeds.
It seems like you were just taking advantage of what you thought was a fair valuation and to sure [ph] up the balance sheet that was already in pretty good shape.
So help me understand what the thought process there.
I know it wasn’t a big number in $20 million but just the thought process is helpful.
Yeah Ryan it’s John.
We started raising a little bit of equity on our ATM early in the quarter or when the window open [ph] last quarter.
I think it’s a fair comment that that was in hindsight probably a little bit on the early side.
We were positioning the balance sheet to make sure that all of our 2015 largely capital projects and all of our debt could be taken care of at the start of the year.
It was a bit of conservative strategy in hindsight but we feel very good about where we are now.
And as Bryan said in his prepared remarks we have considerable flexibility in our balance sheet.
And we’re at the point where we can take advantage of opportunities as they arise.
Right.
Now that makes sense.
So it sounds like it was really just focused on trying to sure up your 2015 debt maturity heading to the year.
Yes.
And with that being out of the way I guess the second question I would have is aside from uses of proceeds that might involve things that are unknown today whether it’d be acquisitions development renovation plans et cetera there’s not really a need to tap those ATM markets again? We’ll remain flexible around that depending on what we have going on.
I think it’s an important thing to note Ryan that freeing up four of those relatively smaller assets of our and unencumbering them with a mortgage just gives us also a lot more flexibility in our ability to capital recycle assets within our portfolio.
And that’s an added leg of I think value that Robert Springer is highly focused on.
And as we continue to reduce our leverage and add that flexibility I think you’ll see us being much more nimble particularly if the hotels don’t have encumbrances on them.
So that was again one of the reasons why we wanted to step in to ’15 one being able to say and look our shareholders in the eyes and say - we have all the financial capability and more so to fund all of these great value-add projects but also to take an even further step in our capital recycling capabilities.
That makes a lot of sense and that’s a very good point.
That’s all for me.
Thanks a lot.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And that does conclude the question -and-answer session.
At this time I’ll turn the conference back over to management for any concluding remarks.
So we want to thank you all very much for your interest.
And several of us will be on the road and look forward to seeing many of you in the very near term.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today’s conference.
Again thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing-by.
Welcome to the Sunstone Hotel Investors First Quarter Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session; instructions will be given at that time.
I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today Tuesday May 5 2015 at 9:00 a.m.
Pacific Daylight Time.
I’ll now turn the presentation over to Bryan Giglia Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Tim and good morning everyone.
By now you should have all received a copy of our first quarter earnings release and supplemental which we released yesterday.
If you do not yet have a copy you can access it on our website.
Before we begin this call I’d like to remind everyone that this call contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties including those described in our prospectuses 10-Qs 10-Ks and other filings with the SEC which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
We caution you to consider those factors in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
We also note that this call may contain non-GAAP financial information including adjusted EBITDA adjusted FFO and hotel EBITDA margins.
We are providing that information as a supplement to information prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
In addition hotel information presented includes our adjusted comparable 30-hotel portfolio with prior ownership results for the Marriott Wailea which we acquired in July 2014.
The 2014 hotel information has also been adjusted to conform to the industries uniform system of accounts 11th revised edition which became effective in January of 2015.
With us today on the call are John Arabia President and Chief Executive Officer; Marc Hoffman Chief Operating Officer and Robert Springer Chief Investment Officer.
After our remarks we will be available to answer your questions.
With that I’d like to turn the call over to John.
John please go ahead.
Thanks Bryan good morning everyone.
On today’s call I will provide a few highlights of our hotel performance and the current operating environment as well as an update of our two value add repositioning projects in Boston and Wailea.
Next Marc will review our first quarter operations in detail followed by Bryan who will then walk through our updated earnings guidance in addition to our recent capital transactions which have increased our financial flexibility.
To begin with our portfolio outperformed our previous expectations for the first quarter.
RevPAR growth of 7% exceeded the high-end of our initial guidance of 5% to 6.5%.
Adjusting for the hotels under renovation in the first quarter of both 2014 and 2015 including the Hyatt San Francisco; the Hilton Garden Inn Chicago; the Renaissance Long Beach under renovation in ‘14; and the Boston Park Plaza under renovation in ‘15 our non-renovation impacted RevPAR growth would have been 6.8%.
This generally indicates that the benefits of renovations completed last year modestly exceeded the renovation disruption this year.
We are very pleased with the continued operational improvement and our recently renovated hotels including four of our hotels that generated over 30% RevPAR gains in the first quarter.
While room revenue growth was strong food and beverage and other income were really the stars of the quarter.
During the first quarter food and beverage revenues increased 6.7% driven by 10.6% increase in banquet revenues and a 14.1% increase in audiovisual sales per occupied group room.
Food and beverage revenues continued to strengthen as groups add more events to their programs as well as up-scaling of functions in quality and size.
Similarly other revenues increased 12.1% during the quarter for a variety of reasons including the implementation in restructuring of resort fee programs at certain of our properties and increasing cancellation in attrition revenue and an increase in tenant lease revenues at a few of our hotels.
The stronger than anticipated non-rooms revenue meaningfully contributed to the 7.2% increase in comparable property revenues which in turn drove a over 220 basis-point increase in hotel EBITDA margins and an exceptionally strong 17.1% increase in comparable hotel EBITDA.
All of these figures exceed the high-end of our expectations.
We achieved strong performance in the first quarter despite our two hotels in New York City which continued to exceed high end of our expectations.
We achieved strong performance in the first quarter despite our two hotels in New York City which continue to face the headwinds of additional supply and softer international visitation as a result of the stronger dollar.
Our two New York City hotels make up approximately 9% of our total hotel EBITDA.
We expect New York to underperform the portfolio throughout the year as room rates continue to moderate and operating costs continue to increase by recent inflationary rate.
However weakness in New York has been offset by strong growth in markets such as Boston Orlando and most of the West Coast.
As demand strengthens occupancies continue to grow and pricing pressure intensifies.
Furthermore lower oil prices have already had a positive impact on transient bookings in Wailea as air fares to Hawaii are showing 10% to 15% year-over-year declines particularly from key markets such as Los Angeles and San Francisco.
In 2014 our full year comparable occupancies surpassed the prior peak levels by approximately 360 basis points.
Occupancy continues to increase as evidenced by our first quarter occupancy exceeding the first quarter prior peak occupancy by 460 basis points.
As a result several of our larger hotels are now limiting group room nights and shifting group patterns to lower occupancy weekend nights due to the strength of midweek transient demand.
Our full year 2015 occupancy is expected to increase 50 to 100 basis points.
With a fairly benign supply forecast for most of our markets we believe that it is more likely than not that occupancy will continue to grow in 2016.
Should this be the case there is a strong argument to be made that pricing pressure will continue to intensify throughout at least next year.
These trends bode well for the remainder of ‘15 and beyond.
Now let’s talk about our recent and ongoing capital initiatives.
We expect to invest between $145 million to $160 million renovate and reposition our hotels in 2015.
This represents a $20 million reduction compared to the estimate provided last quarter.
That said the reduction is attributed to the expected timing of payments rather than a changing scope of renovations meaning a portion of the cash that was planned to go out the door in the fourth quarter of ‘15 will not be paid until the first quarter of ‘16.
However we may have the opportunity to accelerate some of the outdoor pool renovations in Wailea during the fourth quarter of this year compared to our previous plan of next year.
Of our total capital investment in ‘15 more than half of this capital will be invested in our three most recent acquisitions.
This includes $34 million to $38 million of Boston Park Plaza $25 million to $27 million at the Marriott Wailea and potentially more if we elect to accelerate some of the public area work and $21 million to $23 million at the Hyatt San Francisco.
All of these renovations are proceeding as planned and we are very happy to report that the 2015 results for both the Hyatt San Francisco and the Marriott Wailea are expected to materially exceed our initial underwriting.
For the full year 2015 we expect to incur $3 million to $5 million of rooms’ revenue displacement or incremental $1 million to $2 million compared to the roughly $3 million of revenue displacement we witnessed last year.
$1.3 million of displacement was incurred in the first quarter leaving $2 million to $4 million of the reminder year weighted heavily to the fourth quarter.
Again this figure may increase a bit if we’re able to accelerate certain public space projects at the Marriott Wailea later this year.
So let’s talk in more detail about the Boston Park Plaza and Marriott Wailea.
I’m pleased to announce that we have completed the public space renovations to Boston Park Plaza.
All public spaces and meeting rooms in most of the retail outlets including the new David Barton gym and Strip by Strega restaurant have been completed and are open for business.
The hotel looks great and more importantly is performing in line with our expectations.
The reaction of the renovation has been overwhelmingly positive and we are booking group business into this year and next year at a rate premium of roughly 20% to what the hotel was achieving prior to renovation.
Additionally year-over-year catering pace revenues between April and December are already up 21%.
We look forward to showing all of you the hotel’s transformation on June 24th during our scheduled investor property tour.
Now on to Maui to our Marriott Wailea Beach Resort.
We have seen a very strong start to 2015 with first quarter RevPAR up 10%.
This strength is a result of few factors including strategy changes developed between our asset management in the hotel and low fuel prices which have benefited the Maui market.
Currency changes have not impacted the hotel’s results because of most of Maui’s visitation originates from the Mainland U.S as opposed to Asia.
We continue to move forward with implementing our asset management initiatives and are schedule to begin a full renovation of the meeting space on June 1st and a soft goods renovation and all the guestrooms during the fall.
We’ll finalize the hotel’s repositioning in 2016 with extensive improvements to the common areas and pools in order to materially elevate the resort’s experience and to make the property far more competitive.
In summary the renovation and repositioning of these assets are proceeding as planned and we remain excited about the growth prospects of these hotels.
Finally I’d like to share a few quick thoughts on the investment environment.
While we have actively pursued various investment opportunities over the past several months we have been surprised by the strength of the bids we have competed with.
Private market pricing continues to increase which has resulted in a separation between public and private market valuations.
We have difficulties explaining the pricing on summaries and transactions particularly if buyers anticipate cyclical downturns in our underwriting as we do.
With the share price below NAV and strong bids coming from both public companies and private equity there is a very good chance that we will be unable to source acquisitions that exceed our cost of capital.
That is there is a strong possibility that in the current environment we are net sellers in 2015.
With that I’ll turn it over to Marc to discuss our first quarter operating results and the current operating environment.
Marc please go ahead.
Thank you John and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
I will review our portfolio’s first quarter operating performance in greater detail.
For the first quarter we saw our comparable RevPAR grow 7% to $150.12 through a 5.3% growth in ADR and the 130 basis-point improvement in occupancy.
Overall nine of our hotels generated double-digit RevPAR growth during the first quarter including our Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile; our Chicago Embassy Suites; our Chicago Hilton Garden Inn; Marriott Wailea; Portland; San Francisco and our LAX Ren.
Hotels witnessing flat to negative RevPAR included our two New York hotels and the Boston Park Plaza which was under heavy renovation.
With occupancy continuing to be at record levels and with demand trends continuing to improve our operators have focused on increasing transient rates through a proactive revenue mix management and just purely bringing up the rates.
This strategy has helped to increase our premium business portfolio-wide.
Specifically in the first quarter we continue to focus on decreasing our reliance on discount channels.
During Q1 all our discount segments declined by 12.9% in room nights while increasing a strong 8% in rate.
In Q1 we saw a 3.1% room night decline in special corporate but a 4% increase in the special corporate rate.
Our hotels have limited availability midweek and are starting to closeout or limit the number of lower rated special corporate rooms as well as lower rated groups.
During Q1 we continued to see strong cyclical trends in food and beverage improving throughout our portfolio.
Our food and beverage revenue as John said grew 6.7% year-over-year with a 420 basis points improvement in F&amp;B margin.
Our margin strength came from both control and recreation of menus.
Our revenue growth is coming heavily from groups increasing their number of events increasing the quality of food and beverage offerings for their events as well as some enhanced audiovisual as well as our reinvented lobbies and lobby bars.
We also continue to see revenue and cost benefits from our reinvented bars as I mentioned and we’ll continue to make these changes throughout 2015.
For full year 2015 our current group pace for all 30 hotels has decreased to 4% positive.
Our pace growth is now coming 100% from rate representing a clear opportunity for the remainder of the year.
We continue to see group strength in several of our hotels such as the Renaissance DC Hyatt San Francisco Renaissance Orlando.
Our 2015 pace is lower due to the Boston Park Plaza which had limited group business during the first quarter due to the renovation of the meeting space.
In addition as John mentioned a few hotels have applied a strategy shift taking less group and waiting for transient business to take advantage of higher transient rates.
For the first quarter our 30-hotel comparable portfolio group room night production for all current and future years declined slightly from the peak year last year by 6.3%.
However Q1 bookings remained the second highest first quarter in the last eight years.
We continue to see strong group trends throughout our portfolio into 2016.
More importantly our 2012 2013 and 2014 renovated hotel trends remained highly positive as they continue to benefit from the renovations.
Let me turn now to Bryan to review our liquidity and guidance.
Bryan please go ahead.
Thank you Marc.
At the end of the quarter we had $244.2 million of cash on hand including $87.3 million of restricted cash.
Last week we repaid the remaining $99.1 million of mortgage debt that was due in 2015.
As a result our pro forma unrestricted cash balance adjusting for these debt repayments would have been approximately $58 million.
The $99.1 million in loans were secured by the Marriott Huston Marriott Park City Marriott Philadelphia and the Marriott Tysons Corner.
We have now addressed all 2015 debt maturities.
We now have 18 unencumbered hotels that collectively generated $132.5 million of EBITDA in 2014.
In addition to our cash position we recently announced that we entered into a new $400 million senior unsecured credit facility.
The additional capacity on the line provides additional financial flexibility that we will use to execute on our business plan over the coming years.
The additional capacity does not mean we are going to use the credit facility to lever up or to go out and aggressively acquire assets rather it provides increased flexibility that we expect to be available during all stages of the cycle.
We now have $1.4 billion of consolidated debt in preferred securities which include 100% of the $228 million mortgage secured by the Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
Our leverage consists entirely of well-staggered non-cross mortgage debt and preferred securities.
Our debt has a weighted average term-to-maturity of approximately four years at an average interest rate of 4.3%.
Our variable rate debt as a percentage of total debt stands at 30.5%.
We are exceedingly comfortable with our current leverage profile and our ability to continue to achieve our long-term credit milestones.
Consistent with our track record we’ve built over the past several years we expect to further improve our balance sheet and increase our financial flexibility in a gradual and shareholder-friendly manner yet we retain considerable flexibility to take advantage of opportunities as they present themselves.
Now to update the 2015 guidance for the second quarter we expect RevPAR to grow between 6% and 7.5%.
We expect second quarter adjusted EBITDA to come in between $103 million and $107 million.
And we expect second quarter adjusted FFO per diluted share to be between $0.40 and $0.42.
For both second quarter and full year outlook we anticipate approximately $500 000 to $1 million of revenue disruption due to the lingering impact of last week’s civil unrest in Baltimore Maryland.
Our full year 2015 adjusted EBITDA guidance ranges from $344 million to $356 million and our full year FFO guidance ranges from $1.26 to $1.32 per share.
At the midpoint this implies a 10.3 increase in FFO per diluted share compared to 2014.
With that we’d like to now open the call to questions.
Tim please go ahead.
[Operator Instructions] And we’ll take our first question from Ian Weissman with Credit Suisse.
Just a quick question John about your comments about the strong bid for real estate today and then if you kind of counter balance that to the challenges that New York City is currently facing would you make the same comment about Manhattan for the strong bid? We continue to see -- first of all good afternoon Ian.
We continue to see strong bids largely from international capital in New York City.
That is a market that as you know we have not been active in.
We have two hotels that are incredibly well located in or just off the bowtie Times Square that as you can see in our first quarter results did not fare well and we expect that they will continue to have headwinds.
Having that said I believe strongly and we believe strongly that those asset values have continued to increase so yes.
Can you maybe then provide a little more color or clarity on when you said you would consider being a net seller in ‘15 maybe if you could just provide a little bit more details about markets or strategy and what would that include would New York be on the table for sell in ‘15? As an asset allocator Ian everything is on the table.
We have a policy of not disclosing specific information until transactions are hard or completed.
But any area in which we can find dislocations between what we believe to be the market value and what we believe the long-term cash flow support is obviously something that we would try and either invest in or dispose-off depending on what side of that arbitrage we could find.
So there are still as we’ve been talking about few years there are also a couple of legacy hotels that long-term just really we don’t fit the portfolio.
I can see those in addition to opportunistic sell or I can see those being assets that probably are not long for portfolio.
And just another question.
Your comments about occupancy being up over the next two years most markets are way beyond peak occupancy; I think 500 basis points on average across the top 25 MSAs.
So we’ve seen very strong occupancy uplift.
What’s the frictional vacancy rate if you call it where we could start to see sort of rate move materially higher from here.
Just seems to be that there is a cap on rate about 4% growth; what gives you confident that we could start to push rate higher here? I would have thought we had already hit that inflection point.
And if you take a look at historic data you would suggest occupancy levels are lower than we are now.
It is a point where operators have pricing power.
It’s been a little disappointing in this recovery that we have not yet seen more pricing power.
But we particularly Marc and his asset management team are really working with our -- running out of key group times with occupancy being so high we feel comfortable that if this continues which we think it will that pricing pressure should to continue to intensify rather than moderate.
And finally just last question for Bryan maybe a little bit too early to ask this question.
But as far as your prefers that expire next year I think it is 115 million of 8% preferred going out I think April of ‘16; any thoughts on your plans there? Yes they do come due or callable in April of next year.
That’s something we’ll continue to watch the markets.
It is a very fluid market.
So right now there is really nothing that we can do with those.
As we get closer to April if the market remains where it is there looks like there would be an opportunity to exchange those out for a lower coupon; we will have to get closer to that time to get a better idea of what that delta will be.
And can you share any thoughts on where you think coupon would be? The current market is -- the spot market today is roughly 100 basis points maybe a little bit more.
We’ll take our next question from Thomas Allen with Morgan Stanley.
So your first quarter RevPAR came in around 7%; I assume you’re pretty good visible in second quarter again the 6% to 7.5%.
But you maintained your full year RevPAR to 5 to 7 implies things are kind of -- are going to slow down in the second half.
Can you just help us think that through? As we’ve alluded to and this is not Sunstone topic really; it’s an industry topic.
The third quarter is going to be a challenge I think for everybody largely because of shifted Jewish holidays both falling during the week as opposed to weekends last year and Labor Day falling a week later this year.
So we’ve always known and talked about the third quarter will be a little bit softer in terms of just year-over-year growth.
And for us specifically in the fourth quarter that’s when you’ll see the lion share of our renovation disruption.
That should be in the fourth quarter; we’re totally talking about just a little over 100 basis points.
So there is a bit of a moderation going in the third and fourth quarter.
And then on New York can you bifurcate; is there any way to bifurcate the impact of lower international demand versus higher supply versus maybe some of the non-traditional lodging supply that’s coming in and think through how it’s impacting the market overall? While we believe strongly that both are having an impact it’s really difficult Thomas to bifurcate the impact of both of those.
But we do believe that both are having an impact.
And sorry if I missed this earlier but did you give you any data point? Some of your peers have given data points on like their international rooms sold this first quarter versus last or any other data points around the international event? When you take a look at New York and I’ll let Marc take over here in a second if he has anything to add.
But roughly speaking our two Manhattan properties are call at 25% from international market.
So if we’ve seen a downturn of what say I think Expedia has suggested that number of room nights might be down as 10% to 12%.
That will help you triangulate it.
We’ll take our next question from Rich Hightower with Evercore ISI.
A couple of questions; so on the topic of the upsized credit facility and I think Bryan actually preempted one of my questions in his prepared remarks got it possibly pre-staging additional investment activity.
It doesn’t sound like that’s necessarily in the cards.
But just walk us through how you balance out the fees you pay on the additional capacity versus the old $150 million facility? And then also in light of what sounds to be a reasonable likelihood of additional asset sales later this year that would also generate liquidity? The old facility the $150 million credit facility was too small for our $5 billion asset value company.
We have not updated that facility in number of years and we’ve seen several of our peers to have updated their facilities two to three times since then.
So this was a long view overhaul of the facility.
The 400 -- when we look at the $400 million when you look at the sizing of the facility we looked out over the next five years and with our credit profile and our leverage where it is this is one form of capital that we can be fairly confident that whatever may happen and whatever downturn may come that with our leverage where it is that this will be capital that will be available to us.
And that was more of a -- it was more of a longer-term view than any sort of short-term view as to where we’ll be using the big portion of the facility in the short-term the answer probably not.
But as we looked out over the next couple of years the form of capital that we feel very comfortable will be available to us.
And then John I appreciate your candor in the prepared remarks regarding the current investment landscape and kind of where Sunstone is shaking out relative to some competitors nowadays.
By your estimation just to help us where in your underwriting do you think you are being a little more conservative than the competition right now; is in terms of cyclical downturn you referenced; is in terms of the IRR; is it in terms of leverage availability? Just walk us through that process as it relates to Sunstone right now if you don’t mind.
We really have not changed the methodology in which we underwrite assets and I can turn this also over to Robert Springer for any color but we have over the past several years underwritten cyclical downturns.
Now we will most likely be wrong in terms of the timing of that downturn the magnitude of that downturn but we believe strongly that assuming downturns in your underwriting reflects more accurately the earnings power of that asset.
In addition to that you need to be careful we believe with your residual cap rates and the context of what is a very low interest rate look.
And so I think between the two of those even though we don’t see other peoples underwriting I think it would be -- we have prepared ourselves and I think it would be logical that the farther we go into a cycle those disciplines might keep us on the sidelines at this point in the cycle versus some of our peers.
And if that is the case we’re comfortable with that; we don’t need to transact to be relevant.
I think we are going to transact smartly rather than just focusing on volume.
We’ll take our next question from Anthony Powell with Barclays.
On the asset sales what do you envision the use of proceeds to be if you were to sell one or more assets this year you do have the $100 million share repurchase authorization would you use that as use of proceeds? It really depends -- it really depends on where we are in terms of asset values; it will depend on where our share price is; it will depend on any data preferred that we have the ability to bring in.
So it largely depends.
And then obviously if we cannot find interesting acquisition opportunities or we’re not comfortable with the presence of acquisition opportunities returning capital to shareholders through some form is always on the table.
So I’m not trying to dodge the question but at the end of the day it really just depends on what is best for the company our long-term goals and total shareholder returns.
And then I just have a longer term question on New York City.
Given where the difference is between private market valuations and public market valuations and some of the EBITDA generated in New York City hotels what’s kind of the long-term rational being in the New York City market as a public REIT do you still like the market long-term would you invest in a further at the commensurate expenses [ph] and what’s your view on that? Very long-term New York has proven to be the one market that is most resilient to suppliers that have been able to absorb supply.
It has really positive long-term if you’re talking about long-term -- I am talking about the next 10 20 30 40 years.
On a very long-term basis we believe the operating fundamentals in New York are attractive.
So let’s turn it over to Rob.
I think long-term -- if you look back over the last several years one thing that we have to acknowledge is the incredible amount of supply that has been effectively absorbed into New York.
Now none of us are terribly happy with the growth that we’re -- locked there up that we’re currently seeing in New York.
But if you look at the total supply hotel rooms in New York and the amount that’s been absorbed in the occupancy that the market is still able to achieve I think it’s a testament to the strength of the market long-term as a both domestic and international travel destination.
On the after side we’ve seen the strong results in Chicago and Boston this year.
Number one were there any kind of one-time or short-term boost to those markets in the first quarter and two have you seen the supply growth environment and the commission [ph] calendars for those two cities this year net? We’re very excited about Chicago and Boston.
There were some good citywides in Chicago in the first quarter but in general we believe Chicago is going to have a very strong 2015.
And I could not be more positive about Boston A having been there; B being a patriot and such; and C the strength of that market again given the number of city-wide the strength of the market et cetera.
We see Boston; again it’s going to be at their peak citywides next year ‘16 and ‘17 you are going to do somewhere between 28 and 30 citywides.
We have basically zero to minimal growth in Boston.
So we are very positive about both of those markets as well as San Francisco and Orlando next year.
We’ll take our next question from Chris Woronka with Deutsche Bank.
I wanted to revisit Park Plaza in the context of Starwood now adding another soft brand and just your updated thoughts.
If you get closer to having I think completely or you want it -- I’m guessing there is probably key money available from them and others and just any updated thoughts on potentially soft branding there? We’ve been approached and we’ve analyzed several rent strategies there.
Right now particularly as we are going through the repositioning the redevelopment of the Boston Park Plaza I think you will most likely see us continue to implement an independent strategy there.
It is a very high occupancy market high gainer operating partner there does a very good job in hotel like that.
And that gives us a lot of flexibility to improve the asset largely as we see fit while at the same time holding on to a considerable amount of brand optionality longer term.
So more likely than not that it will remain an independent hotel particularly as what that means to without having that financial encumbrance what that means to the longer term value particularly on sale; I’m not suggesting we’re not selling it.
But we’re pretty happy with the position we are in right now.
And then I just want to go back something you mentioned at the beginning in terms of the cancellation and attrition fees and you mentioned some I think added resort fee as well.
And we heard from Marriott last week that they had recently changed their cancelation policy.
Where do you think we are in terms of that as a revenue opportunity; are there still more things you think are to come from the operators as we get -- as the environment remains so strong? Yes we believe and I think you’re starting to hear a lot of the brands talk about this movement to strengthening fee program similar if you look at the results and the success of the airlines clearly the first move by all of the brands to move beyond 24-hour cancelation to 48 and in some cases 72 in strong months.
And I think you’re going to see more of that as we move into this extreme high occupancy cycle and continued compression.
We’ll take our next question from Bill Crow with Raymond James and Associates.
John a couple of questions for you; I think your predecessor certainly or maybe you shared the philosophy.
But you kind of had a minimalist philosophy towards the dividend.
And I’m just wondering whether the changing acquisition landscape has made you rethink the dividend and kind of its priority from a cash perspective? It’s really interesting question Bill.
It really comes down to at the end of the day and this is obviously something that the board will debate and finally make a determination on.
If we have purpose if we have reasoned rational to take that incremental capital and to invest it wisely then I think that would of preference rather than deploying that capital to a dividend and then having to turn right back around and raise that capital which generally has a cost associated with it.
To the extent that we do not have interesting investment opportunities which I’m hoping that is not the case long-term then we’d have to have a discussion about at what point do we start returning that incremental capital to shareholders via one of several different methods and on that table would obviously be potentially cash dividend.
John if you were to go back to your prior employer today and I don’t get to see -- I didn’t get to see what you’re writing back in the day but would you be calling for industry consolidation at this point? I think we’ve got a couple of more lodging REITs set to list in the next month or two.
What’s your history of thought there? I have been saying consolidation to make a lot of sense for almost 20 years have been in this business.
And I think the shortest book ever read was -- the shortest book ever written was the REIT to REIT [ph] consolidation in hotel space.
And what we’ve found is what they used to call host in the seven to dwarfs; we now have host in seven dwarfs and a bunch of micro midgets.
And the market is accepting that.
I don’t really understand why we have 18 or 20 hotel REITS but that’s not for me to decide; it’s not for me to force an issue on.
But it strikes me when you take a look at the other major sectors.
You have much larger companies.
I think that there is some benefit of that incremental scale.
At the end of the day it is shareholders returns that matter not just scale.
But I do think it’s an interesting phenomenon that we continue to have hotel REITS coming to market and many of them just don’t really have differentiated strategies.
So what to do about it nothing from my chair really but I do find it interesting.
And we’ll take our next question from Jeff Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
So is this better to be a dwarf from micro midgets John? I won’t touch that one Jeff.
Actually I’m sorry if this is repetitive but I missed unfortunately some of your responses to the question about the robustness of the transaction market.
Just curious did you talk about whether you see that pricing as debt fueled or driven by maybe foreign buyers with the greater focus on U.S investments? And I guess I’m curious are these folks that you are used to seeing in the hotel transaction market? Really all the above; I think we’ve seen a stronger private equity bid because of the cost and availability of debt.
Particularly on the Coast Southern California New York City we have seen new bids coming from either sovereigns or coming from Asian buyers that we had not seen before.
Now to be frank weighing through some of those bids or weighing through some of those overtures I should say takes time to see people are real or not.
But it does seem that there has been substantially more interest from foreign buyers.
And at the same time we’re also seeing heavy competition coming from several of our REIT brothers.
So it will be interesting to see now that there has been a positive a share pricing how that trickles through repricing or rebids.
But quite honestly Jeff we’ve seen bids from really across the boards suggesting that hotel values just continue to increase.
And how you think about them relative to replacement cost? Because obviously when we look at other property types even in California I think who is easier to build in California you might see more construction.
But point being is valuations on some cases have actually begun to approach replacement cost just surpassed given the developments kicking in.
But you haven’t quite seen that in hotels yet.
I guess I’m wondering I got to the metric that you’re looking at the sort of measure the robustness of the bidding.
I don’t think we’re at replacement cost in most markets potentially in some.
But remember development costs are not static; you’re competing with land you’re competing for land with other types of developers and construction costs as we’ve seen with our own value add repositionings continue to increase.
And then there are certain markets quite honestly where getting the right trades is becoming more and more difficult.
We’ve seen that quite honestly in Boston.
And just one last question I guess to EBIT.
At Park Plaza one of your competitors bought a hotel across the street there the review [ph] that came of the parking garage.
I was just curious is that facility used for Park Plaza’s guests and valet services I guess wasn’t share if the change in ownership there might change your economics for providing parking for guest? I’ll turn this over Robert Springer.
We don’t actually currently park our cars at that garage; there is a parking garage more proximate to our hotel that we currently park in.
But the dynamic in Boston for parking is one that overnight parking availability is actually pretty good because especially in this particular market where you have a transient population that comes in for work and then leaves.
So I know we’ve revaluated our parking contracts in Boston during our period of ownership and we have switched garages but to the best of my knowledge I don’t believe we’re parking in that garage at this time.
And we’ll take our next question from Shaun Kelly with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
I was just curious on we continue to see independent hotels remain a big theme for a lot of your reappears in terms of acquisitions.
And I am curious outside of the Park Plaza; the profile of Sunstone is still heavily mixed towards the brand.
So I guess at strategic level I mean how do you kind of think about that today and where you want to take your mix over time? I think what you’ll see from us and if you look across the spectrum of assets that we’ve looked at in the last 12 months it’s been a mix of branded hotels as well as independent hotels.
In super high barrier to entry markets very high compression markets we are still a believer in both branded hotels as well as independent hotels.
Looking at our portfolio it’s obviously very heavily branded; our brand weighted versus independents but don’t take as an indication that we don’t have an appetite or we’re less interested.
Our acquisition focus is very much on very high compression super urban so to speak; and in those markets we do feel that there is a very viable place for independents especially when you look at the true cost of a brand.
John was speaking before about some of the evaluation we’ve done on the Boston Park Plaza as it relates to potentially adding a brand.
And definitely one of the factors that has played into that is when you really truly fully load the P&amp;L with all the brand costs you have to really have confidence that the brand is going to deliver an incremental -- a meaningful amount of incremental money to pay for itself.
And my follow-up would just be we’ve heard some people talk about San Francisco and the renovation in the Moscone Center particularly the impact on some larger group hotels.
You guys obviously have a big group hotel but you’re also in the midst of ramping that asset.
So could you just tell us how you see to outplay that particularly in the second half of ‘15 when I think the convention centers on their kind of peak renovation? As far as our hotel goes we’re currently ahead of pace for full year by 23.6% with 18% of that coming in rooms and almost 4.8% in rate.
Given where we typically play in the citywides the lack of citywide compression due to some of the openings of construction on the convention center Doug put some pressure on the transient rate.
That being said we are comfortable where we are the number of group rooms do softened a little bit in the back half of the year but it’s also the strongest transient demand between June through November.
Given the transient demand given the increase in both mid-week business and weekend travel we think that our hotel will work its way through the market very well.
And as I said we think San Francisco is a strong double-digit environment for us this year and probably a double-digit or close to a double-digit environment next year.
And we’ll take our next question from Lukas Hartwich with Green Street Advisors.
John you mentioned that your turnaround assets are materially outperforming your underwriting can you quantify that a bit? Sure I am going to hand this over to Robert.
But if you take a look at for example our 2015 multiple on our total investment thus far in San Francisco ‘15 would be 11.8 times EBITDA that includes renovation disruption in it Wailea were down to 14 times.
So we’re seeing pretty significant growth out of these hotels that have materially outperformed underwriting.
But I probably just took all of Robert Springer but I’ll pass it along for any color.
I mean generally speaking looking at the recent three larger acquisitions Boston Park Plaza from a top-line perspective is generally in line a little bit small amount of outperformance on the top-line in Boston Park Plaza.
Looking at Hyatt San Francisco the differential is a little bit more actually -- sorry I am just comparing a couple of numbers give or take about $10 in RevPAR in ‘15 more than we expected.
And then when you go to Marriott Wailea that’s where the real outperformance has been a lot stronger frankly there was more low hanging fruit on the revenue and sales side than we expected.
I’d love to say that it’s something more scientific in that.
But really as we went through and looked at how the hotel was addressing both its sales strategy its approach to group and revenue management we were able to move the needle there a lot more obviously helped by dropping oil prices which dropped airline fares which has helped inbound traffic in Maui.
But there the outperformance underwriting is really closer to $25 in RevPAR.
Robert one follow-up on that.
The Hyatt in San Francisco the margins in that property are in the low 20% range.
I am just curious what the -- what sort of upside do you see in those margins? In San Francisco we’re in -- as everyone understands we are in a very union environment and with that comes a heavy cost structure.
So to achieve our business plan there we would compare to current margins we really see it getting kind of to the mid 20s versus the low 20s where it is now.
And then I’ve got one for Marc.
Marc can you remind us why margin growth is at this point at least is below 100 basis points even the RevPAR growth feels like it’s coming in pretty strong? The same store portfolio for 2015 margins are 0 to 30 basis points up from the prior peak of 30.6.
We’re expecting to achieve prior peak margins in 2015.
There are some additional costs that really end up in real estate taxes more than anything and in New York City the drag on GLP.
So if you really carve out the real estate taxes and in New York City the rest of the portfolio looks to be very strong.
We’ll take our next question from Nikhil Bhalla with FBR.
Just want to get a sense of what you think the length of cycle is or at least what you’re assuming as you think about your asset sales and some of the programs that you kind of talked about would love to get some sense of that.
Nikhil that’s obviously a very very important question and one that nobody really knows the answer to.
I think there are a significant number of potential outcomes.
I think the more -- this is just me talking but I think the most likely outcome that we’ve been saying this for years is we see softer growth in this recovery that this recovery is longer as supply is muted and GDP has not been as strong it kind of feels like a sort of a white hot growth it feels like it’s just continuing to slowly build steam.
I think that type of environment which would result in relatively low interest rates for longer periods of time I think bodes well for our business.
So putting all of that together I would expect that while we might not see some of that white hot growth in the middle part of the recovery I do believe that this recovery is longer than is typical.
I think this is pretty healthy.
And really the most important question one of the more important questions I should say is what does the next downturn look like? And while nobody knows I think it’s more likely than not that the next downturn is far less severe than what we just experienced last two downturns and what does that mean to real estate pricing or hotel pricing.
Sure.
So I got it from what you’re saying you think that we’re still in that cycle at this point in time? I think that’s fair.
Remember that pricing can continue to increase; we’re seeing parts of the cycle before where pricing can continue to increase even in declining occupancy because we’re over some natural occupancy level where there continues to be enough tension in the pricing market or in the ability to move rates.
So I think there are some people to take immediate reaction that as soon as occupancy starts declining ADR will as well and we just don’t show that view.
You mentioned about seven dwarfs out there; my question to you is why not look to sell the company to off your other peers? Why not look to sell the company to a peer? That’s obviously a board decision but anyway to maximize shareholder value we will look at.
And one final question for Bryan here.
Bryan the restricted cash balance $87 million can you just give us some color on what’s included in that? The majority of that would be the FF&amp;E reserves which are -- we will draw down on and then replenish on a monthly basis.
I believe that’s somewhere around $50 million of that balance.
There are some seasonality reserves and other things that are dictated by the individual mortgages and then the other amount would be then the amount that’s filing the interest payment for the next months also included in that would be real estate taxes that are reserved on a monthly basis to prepay upcoming real estate taxes.
We’ll take our next question from Smith Rose.
[Ph] This is Archana [ph] for Smith [Ph].
Quick question on Wailea.
So is it fairly reasonable to think of there being significant disruption in 2015 if you also -- I know you guys talked about competing majority of the renovation of the resorts public spaces.
But it sounds like that’s kind of key to hotel.
So if you could provide some context around that that maybe helpful.
We really aren’t providing ‘16 guidance at this point.
I think what we talked about in the past really is just some disruption around the pool renovations in Wailea.
If we can accelerate some of that we might take some of that on in fourth quarter of this year just depending on when we have the best opportunity to get that done.
In addition to that we’ll continue to have some renovation disruption at the Boston Park Plaza when we’re finalizing those rooms.
And other than that I really don’t see anything else in our portfolio and at that point our portfolio in really good shape.
So we’ll provide -- as the year goes on we’ll provide more disclosure on what we anticipate that number to be.
But keep in the context that we’re talking about this year $3 million to $5 million of revenue displacement that’s maybe 30 basis points or 40 basis points of RevPAR on a company that this year will do roughly $1.25 billion in total revenues.
So really take a look at that in the historic context or on an absolute context it’s really not all that much.
And given that like these heavy lifting projects are now like performing better than the underwriting and given your earlier comments on the strength of the bids can you talk to the potential of probably doing like another heavy lifting or transformative deal in 2016? Potentially again it really comes down to pricing it comes down to our human capital it comes down to whether or not the markets in our investor base has gotten comfortable with our ability to execute on these plans which we feel comfortable we feel very confident will be the case.
We look forward to highlight those capabilities when we all get together as many people as possible coming up at our investor meeting at Boston Park Plaza which will also be highlighting our plans for Maui.
While Boston is a good portion of that renovation is done and we are while it’s performing well we’re most excited about where that asset can go particularly after the rooms are done.
We feel very very good about Wailea and if we can prove and get -- if we can prove that we have that ability and the investment community buys into that then I think incremental value add will be on the table too tough to make that call right now.
And that does conclude our Q&amp;A session.
I’ll turn it back to our presenters for any closing remarks.
Well we really appreciate everybody’s time and interest in the company.
And please give any one of us a call if we can add any further details.
Have a great day.
And that does conclude today’s conference call.
We appreciate your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Second Quarter Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today Friday August 7 2015 at 9:00 a.m.
Pacific Daylight Time.
I’ll now turn the presentation over to Bryan Giglia Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Audra and good morning everyone.
By now you should have all received a copy of our second quarter earnings release and supplemental which we released yesterday.
If you do not yet have a copy you can access it on our website.
Before we begin this call I’d like to remind everyone that this call contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties including those described in our prospectuses 10-Qs 10-Ks and other filings with the SEC which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
We caution you to consider those factors in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
We also note that this call may contain non-GAAP financial information including adjusted EBITDA adjusted FFO and hotel EBITDA margins.
We are providing that information as a supplement to information prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
In addition hotel information presented includes our adjusted comparable 30-hotel portfolio which includes prior ownership information.
The 2014 hotel information has also been adjusted to conform with the industry's uniform system of accounts for the lodging industry 11th revised edition which became effective in January of 2015.
With us on the call today are John Arabia President and Chief Executive Officer; Marc Hoffman Chief Operating Officer and Robert Springer Chief Investment Officer.
After our remarks we will be available to answer your questions.
With that I’d like to turn the call over to John.
Thanks Bryan good morning everyone.
On today’s call I will discuss several items including first to review our hotel performance.
Second our outlook for the operating environment and third an update of the embedded growth we expect from our two value add repositioning projects in Boston and Wailea.
Next Marc will review our second quarter operations in detail followed by Bryan who will then walk through our updated earnings guidance.
To begin with our portfolio outperformed our expectations for the second quarter.
Our RevPAR growth of 7.1% which was made up of a 6.3% increase in ADR and a 60 basis point increase in occupancy exceeded the midpoint of our guidance of 6% to 7.5%.
Overall second quarter RevPAR growth was strong even with the previously anticipated softness at our two New York City hotels and lower than anticipated results at our Renaissance Baltimore.
The Renaissance Baltimore was negatively impacted by group cancellations and softer transient booking following a period of civil unrest.
Excluding Renaissance Baltimore our RevPAR growth for the quarter would have been 7.8% which would have been above the high end of our guidance.
We expect the impact in Baltimore to be short lived and remain bullish on the City as both citywide room revenue and our group bookings pace are up over 30% for 2016.
Not only did our room revenue growth exceed the industry average for upper upscale hotels in the second quarter but our other income contributed to demonstrate healthy year-over-year growth.
Other revenues increased 10.2% during the quarter for a variety of reasons including the implementation and restructuring of resort fee programs in certain of our properties and an increase in tenant lease revenues at a few of our hotels.
Also during the second quarter food and beverage revenues increased 3.6% while food and beverage margins were up an impressive 190 basis points.
Our total food and beverage revenue growth was hindered by the Renaissance Baltimore which experienced several banquet cancellations during the two-week period of civil unrest.
Banquet sales and audiovisual spend continues to increase at most of our properties as evidenced by a 5.3% increase in food and beverage revenues excluding the Renaissance Baltimore despite only modest increases in portfolio occupancy.
As we've stated in the recent quarters groups continue to add more events to their programs and continue to upscale their functions in terms of both quality and size.
The stronger than anticipated non-room revenue contributed to a 6.4% increase in comparable total property revenues.
This revenue growth coupled with a 3.9% increase in comparable property expenses drove a 160 basis point increase in hotel adjusted EBITDA margins and a very healthy 11.3% increase in comparable hotel EBITDA.
Our comparable hotel EBITDA exceeded our expectations and as a result our second quarter adjusted EBITDA and adjusted FFO per share exceeded the high end of our guidance and the consensus estimate.
Despite the short term impact of civil unrest in Baltimore and the anticipated lackluster results in New York City our portfolio continues to demonstrate significant strength.
More importantly despite recent concerns within the investment community that the end of the current cyclical expansion is upon us we remain confident in the strength of this recovery.
The second quarter of 2015 marks the 20th out of the past 22 quarters in which year-over-year quarterly occupancy has increase for our portfolio.
the two quarters in which occupancy declined were negatively impacted by renovation disruption and would have posted occupancy increases had it not been for renovation displacement.
As occupancy continues to build our pricing pressure continues to intensify.
Our RevPAR growth this quarter came approximately 90% from EDR which is an improvement from the approximately 55% growth it contributed during the second quarter of 2014.
On a hotel specific level Washington DC seems to have turned the corner as our Baltimore DC has posted a 8.9% RevPAR increase year-to-date and we anticipate the hotel will grow full year RevPAR between 5% and 6% even with the weaker third quarter stemming from a shift in the holiday calendar.
Additionally our Renaissance DC booking pace for 2016 is up over 20% and is even stronger in 2017.
Our two New York -- there are two hotels in New York City seems to have stabilized as year-over-year RevPAR growth turns slightly positive for the month of July with preliminary RevPAR growth of 3%.
Despite the 3% RevPAR increase for July we continue to have concerns over the New York market for the remainder of '15 -- remainder of 2015 and our guidance as it has been all year long continues to expect negative RevPAR for New York in 2015.
Our positive outlook for our portfolio is supported by recent hotel group production busy convention calendars in 2016 and attractive group pace for our portfolio.
More specifically our future bookings made during the second quarter and during the first half of '15 were the highest we've seen on record and group rates for future periods continue to grow as meeting planners are more limited in terms of both space availability and key patterns.
For 2016 our group pace the specifics of which we'll disclose later in the year when we provide initial 2016 guidance is robust.
Furthermore citywide convention calendars for '16 indicate that compression is likely to intensify in several of our key markets.
For 2016 citywide rooms are up over 10% in San Diego and New Orleans and up over 30% in Washington DC and Baltimore.
Finally we believe we have significant long term growth embedded in our portfolio as Boston Port Plaza begins to ramp up during the second half of 2016 and Wailea is set to have an incredible growth in 2017.
As we shared with you during our Boston Port Plaza tour we believe that these two assets will collectively generate $56 million to $63 million of EBITDA in 2017 compared to the $41 million they generated in '14 or the $42 million to $44 million they're expected to contribute in '15.
This equates to an incremental $15 million to $22 million of property level EBITDA once we're complete with our renovations at these properties.
That is presented in detail at our recent Boston Port Plaza property tour we've build a track record of delivering these complicated projects on time on budget and within our forecasted range of revenue displacement.
I believe this core competency of in-house talent distinguishes us from several of our competitors and should provide greater comfort that we can create shareholder value through select value-add repositionings.
In summary we believe our portfolio is in great shape and well positioned to take advantage of the continued lodging expansion.
Our balance sheet is conservatively levered and can take advantage of investment opportunities that present themselves.
And we’ve built in earnings growth potential once we complete the renovations of Boston Park Plaza in mid '16 and Wailea in late '16.
With that I’ll turn it over to Marc to discuss our second quarter operating results and the current operating environment.
Marc? Thank you John and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
I will review our portfolio's second quarter operating performance in greater detail.
For the second quarter we saw comparable RevPAR grow 7.1% to $184.05 through a 6.3% growth in ADR and a 60 basis point improvement in occupancy.
Overall 10 of our hotels generated double-digit RevPAR growth during the second quarter including our Wailea Resort both our JW Marriott and Hilton New Orleans or Hyatt San Francisco Renaissance Long Beach and all three of our Chicago hotels as well as our hotel important.
Hotels witnessing flat to negative RevPAR included our two New York hotels and the Renaissance Baltimore as John discussed before.
With occupancy continuing to be at record levels and with demand trends continuing to improve our operators have focused on increasing transient rates through a proactive revenue mix management and focusing of pure ADR increases.
This strategy has helped to increase our premium business portfolio while in the second quarter.
More specifically we continue to focus on decreasing our reliance on discount channel.
During Q2 all of our discount segments declined by 3.5% in room nights while increasing a solid 4.5% in rate.
Furthermore in Q2 we saw a 10.5% room night decline in special corporate but a 5.8% increase in the special corporate rate.
Our hotels has limited availability mid week and are starting to close out or limit the number of lower rated special corporate rooms as well as lower rated group rooms in favor of higher rated bar rates.
We also saw a strong movement in group rate during Q2 with a 7% increase in group rate and a 1.4% increase growth in rooms.
Our group rate strength was seen in all group segments.
During Q2 we continued to see strong cyclical trends in food and beverage and improvement throughout our portfolio.
Our food and beverage revenue as John said grew 3.6% year-over-year with a strong 190 basis point improvement in food and beverage margin.
Our margin strength came from both expense control and recreation of menus and processes.
Groups continue to increase the number and quality of events.
We also continue to see revenue and cost benefits from our reinvented bars.
For full year 2015 our group case for all 30 hotels increased from 4% at the end of the first quarter to 5.6% consisting of a 3.6% increase in rate and a 190 basis point increase in rooms.
Similarly our group room night production for all current and future years increased 15.3% including several multiyear bookings at the Renaissance Washington DC.
Our total group rooms booked during the second quarter represented the highest second quarter bookings witnessed on record.
Let me turn the call over now to Bryan to review our liquidity and guidance.
Bryan please go ahead.
Thank you Marc.
At the end of the quarter we had $187.2 million of cash on hand including $88.5 million of restricted cash.
We have $1.4 billion of consolidated debt and preferred securities which includes a 100% of the $227 million mortgage secured by the Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
Our leverage consistent entirely of well-staggered non-cross mortgage debt and preferred securities.
Our debt has a weighted average term to maturity of approximately four years and an average interest rate of 4.4%.
Our variable rate debt as a percentage of total debt stands at approximately 30%.
We have 18 unencumbered hotels that collectively generated $132.5 million of EBITDA in 2014 and then undrawn $400 million credit facility.
Our balance sheet is strong and we retain considerable flexibility to take advantage of opportunities as they present themselves.
Now to update you 2015 guidance for the third quarter we expect RevPAR to grow between 3% and 4%.
We expect third quarter adjusted EBITDA to come in between $90 million and $94 million and we expect third quarter adjusted FFO per diluted share to be between $0.34 and $0.35.
As we discussed on previous calls we continue to expect that the third quarter will be the lowest RevPAR growth quarter of the year due to Labor Day being one week way and the Jewish holidays following mid week as opposed to on weekends last year.
Our third quarter full year guidance has been adjusted for the sale of the Rochester preferred equity interest which was completed in July.
The sale of the preferred equity interest resulted in an increase in cash of $16 million as well as the elimination of $500 000 of interest income in the third quarter and $750 000 of interest income in the fourth quarter.
We decided to sell our interest after evaluating the additional hotel supply hitting the Rochester market the increased global competition for high end health services and the upcoming 2018 property level mortgage and mezzanine debt maturities.
Following this sale the total cash we recognized from the four hotels we sold in 2013 excluding the $20 million received for the commercial laundry facility equates to approximately 160 000 per key and a 12 times EBITDA multiple.
Separately we deferred $2 million of the total $5 million Marriott guarantee income for Wailea from the fourth quarter of 2015 to 2016 due to expected strength of the 2015 property level cash flows combined with the final timing of the hotel repositioning.
Our full year 2015 adjusted EBITDA guidance ranges from $347 million to $356 million and our full year adjusted FFO guidance ranges from $1.28 to $1.32 per share.
At the mid-point this implies an 11% increase in FFO per diluted share compared to 2014.
Our current full year guidance as compared to the full year guidance we provided last quarter reflects the Wailea $2 million guarantee income moving from 2015 to 2016 and the decline in interest income related to the sales of Rochester preferred equity interest.
With that I would like to now open the call for questions.
Audra please go ahead.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Ian Weissman at Credit Suisse.
Hi guys this is Chris for Ian.
Congrats on a great quarter.
Thank you.
We've obviously seen quite a lodging sector selloff since the earnings started this quarter on concerns that the recovery might be waning.
We remain very bullish on the sector.
And it sounds like you are seeing some of the best pricing power you've seen given the high occupancy.
Can you talk a little bit about the discrepancy between sentiment and where you think the lodging sector is going? Hey look all we can talk about is really what we are seeing in operating fundamentals.
The market is going to decide what it wants to do but what we can focus on is our underlying business and as we said in our prepared remarks we remain confident in this recovery we don’t feel any different than we did three months ago six months ago.
We paced on group booking pace based on convention calendars based on everything we see.
The recovery we believe is still fully untapped.
There is clearly has been a lot of attention focused on New York City and on Houston but I believe that we have talked about those issues and had budgeted for those isolated areas of weakness for some time.
So that really was not a surprise to us.
Got you.
With shares trading at 25% to 30% discount to NAV it seems like it's a rare opportunity to be an aggressive buyer of your stock.
Your debt to capitalization is 29% even on a depressed stock price nothing outstanding on your credit line no acquisitions under contract and then $150 million share purchase authorization.
Can you just update us on your thoughts about buying back stock at these levels and whether or not the $200 million that you have maturing next year and the opportunity to maybe take out the preferred is holding you pack since you have new debt that you're going to issue next year? Sure first of all we really don’t comment on our specific intentions to either issue equity or to repurchase equity but let me give you some thoughts about how we think about think about it.
At the current price of roughly $14 and they were up a little bit today and we believe that our valuation falls very short of NAV.
I think the consensus NAV is around $17.50 to $18.
So at this point our best investment opportunity likely represents reinvesting in our portfolio and whether that’s investment through high IRR investments back into our specific properties or repurchasing our own portfolio through a share repurchase.
When we look at evaluating or when we evaluate a share repurchase there is a few factors that we believe are relevant.
First does the company or do we have the financial capacity to buy back stock without taking on too much debt or putting our liquidity at risk.
Clearly as you mentioned our balance sheet is in great shape and we have ample access to capital.
So to the first question really no problems there.
Second how confident are we in the earnings power of our portfolio? Here again as we just talked about we really don’t see anything material on the horizon that would cause us to reduce our longstanding view on the health of the cycle.
While there has been a number of negative earnings revisions this quarter that have caused us to pause and reflect in our forecast as I just said we remain comfortable.
So to the second question no problem there.
And finally I think one of the more interesting questions we really have to reflect upon is just how comfortable are you with the absolute pricing of private market real estate values.
We're clearly trending -- as you mentioned we're trading at a pretty significant 1NAV and while we believe that our NAV will continue to increase over time one must at least recognize that real estate return expectations are very low in historic context and that there’s some risk that those return expectations eventually move higher.
In this regard if we were to buy back stock we believe the best way to funds such a repurchase would be to take advantage of the current arbitrage between public and private market pricing and sell assets in the private market at the low cap rate and use those proceeds to buy back out stock at higher cap rate.
And I think this goes directly in line -- these factors go directly in line with what we’ve been saying all year which is given the disconnect between public and private market pricing we are more likely than not be net seller than a net buyer of hotels this year.
So sorry for the longwinded answer but that’s our thoughts on share repurchases.
Thanks for the color John great quarter.
Thanks.
We will go next to Bill Grow at Raymond James.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hey good morning Bill.
How are you? I am good thanks let’s start on Baltimore and you gave a pretty rosy update on the City for next year group pace up big my question really is how of that pace was booked in the period prior to the civil unrest versus after and have you now seen an end to cancellations? Hey Bill its Marc Hoffman we have absolutely seen an end to cancellations.
We've actually seen some decent bookings coming in in the last six weeks for 2016.
We have had erosion in 2016 at all.
And we recently booked a nice reasonable size financial piece of business into 2016.
So obviously the situation there can change but today we feel good about where we’re at and the pace is strong.
Great.
My second question is on New York.
John you were one of the more cautious folks on New York and rightly so it proved.
But you also indicated that you thought we could turn positive for the city in the fourth quarter.
Any change to that perspective either for the better or worse? And then number two we're into August so most of the summer leisure travel is coming to an end.
Any change from your perspective on international inbound travel into New York and the trends there during the leisure season? Yeah Bill I’m trying to remember back I think our comment was I think I had made the comment may be six months ago that not only did we believe that New York would be negative but we believed that every quarter of the year would likely be negative.
And then I think our discussion was there was a chance that may be fourth quarter would turn a little bit keep in mind underlying our forecasts and just our own projections are still that every quarter is negative in New York.
So while we are happy with the positive results this last month we remain somewhat cautious on the city just given the amount of new supply the FX impact and also what we believe is a bid of commoditization of product in New York.
Any change to what you're seeing from international travel during the summer season? Yeah it looks like it stabilizing but still relatively weak in the fourth quarter but little bit better than the first quarter and second quarter.
So it appears that there is a little bit of stabilization there.
Okay.
That's it from me.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Bill.
And we’ll go next to David Loeb with Baird.
Hi John I just want to get a little bit of an idea about what the considerations were in the pricing of the preferred that you were looking to sell.
The financials in 2013 still looked pretty good.
Your coverage was excellent that year.
Has that deteriorated or are you expecting it to and how did you determine that discount? Hi David it's Bryan when we look at the preferred in the face value and what we ended up accepting for the repayment the several factors that I touched on in the prepared remarks the main factor that we looked at was that its -- if you look at the Rochester market and you look at the supply increase in that market The Mayo Clinic came out several years ago and announced a very large multi-year expansion.
After that there was I think from 16 to 18 there is a 20% to 30% increase in the supply over that time period in lot of smaller limited service but still very comparative hotels.
When we look at that combined with the relatively near term maturities of the mortgage in the mezzanine debt we felt that this was an appropriate price to end this investment.
When you go back and look at our total cash received for the sale and looking at where the properties are performing it still equates to 160 a key and the 12 times multiple which we think is an attractive price for that those assets.
And then also keep in mind that those proceeds were then reinvested into Boston at the acquisition price at Boston was a comparable multiple to what we sold Rochester for.
Okay.
I guess I understand that I'm just trying to understand about the alternative of holding it to 2018 and either the equity owner selling or refinancing and perhaps giving you par or something closer to that.
We thought there was potential risk at that point.
So taking all those factors into account we felt that this was the best outcome.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
We’ll go next Chris Woronka at Deutsche Bank Hi Good morning guys.
I want to ask you a little bit about the third quarter and just from the standpoint of I think when you did your annual budget earlier in the year was it just an estimate maybe some of the short-term group business that comes in for third quarter as you got later in the year that just shifted into October? I guess if I can frame it in a question if you have it or if you're willing to share it how much of a delta are you seeing in October versus September? And Chris specifically what delta I don't understand which delta you're looking for I’m not sure… I guess it would be more on the group.
Is September group going to be down 5 and October up 10? Are you able to kind of quantify exactly where the slippage came from from third quarter to fourth? Is it something that kind of unfolded over the year do you think or was it just kind of mis-modeled by everybody at the beginning? Chris its John we’ve been talking about the calendar shift I think all year.
In fact I think we started talking about it last year.
So this is I would not characterize this as all as softening through the year.
It’s really just a calendar shift.
So go ahead Bryan.
Chris in the third quarter with Labor Day moving a week out with the Jewish Holidays falling mid week compared to weekends last year it just -- it impacts more of the City Center and the large group hotels where they will not -- there will be holes in those weeks and that was expected the entire year.
As we get to October the performance relatively it bounces back to where we’ve been seeing for the rest of the year.
So the softness in September is all calendar related.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just wanted to ask you about Houston.
And I understand it's only about 3% of your portfolio so not that it really impacts you much.
But I'm guessing you watch the market.
Have you seen transactions or hotels for sale there? And just in the context of are some people going to get really negative on the city for long-term and try to sell at lower prices or do you think things that are for sale there are holding up on the valuation side? Chris let me pass this over to Robert Springer.
Yes good morning Chris.
In the quarter there was a couple transactions candidly there were several assets in the market in Houston prior to oil prices really dislodging.
We weren’t an active investor in Houston.
So we weren’t looking to increase our exposure at that time.
So we were only generally aware that those transactions were in the market although I do know from some follow-up conversations that there was several deals that were in the market ultimately decided to pull themselves from the market because of the movement in the price of oil and frankly the end result in the bid that they would get more reflecting the moment and time than really reflecting the long-term value of the real estate.
So I haven’t seen any recent -- very recent trades in Houston and I think that is probably consistent with owners of lodging real estate deciding to hold for the time being to allow the oil markets to stabilize and thus market clearing prices better reflect the actual value of the real estate.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And then just finally on the Wailea on the deferred guarantee payment is that something that Marriott initiated or did you guys initiate it? Is it just purely because of the -- I think you mentioned the cash flows being better this year and so is that specifically why? It's Marc.
We initiated it.
Obviously we had a lot of asset management initiatives at Wailea this year and we were able to get in there quickly and make a lot of difference and move forward on both revenue and profitability and we work with Marriott and they were very quick to move the $4 million $5 million guarantee to 2016.
Okay very good.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
We will go next to Anthony Powell at Barclays.
Hi good afternoon.
Just on Wailea again you've done very well to drive occupancy there the past couple quarters.
How do you mitigate potential disruption there next year as you start to implement your CapEx strategy? I don’t think there is going to be a mitigation.
We’ve been very public that we’re going to have a range of displacements that is going to be between on the revenue side between $12 million and $18 million and a range on the EBITDA side of between $8.5 million to $12.5 million we are going to be doing numerous things to try and reduce that.
The hotel will probably have different times different sale discounts available for those people or what I call wannabes who want to come to Wailea but never can afford it but they can probably afford during the construction period.
So my sense is we will probably run higher percentage of occupancy than maybe we think and we’ll do those kind of things but there is no doubt we will have this disruption.
But we are highly confident on getting the work done on time and being ready for Christmas season of 2016.
And those statistics that Marc just talked about were discussed at length as you know at our Boston Park Plaza tour and that presentation on our website but keep in mind also as we said at our meetings in Boston this hotel is doing very very well much better than our underwriting expectations and we had always forecasted pretty significant disruption in order to take advantage of the massive rate delta between us and our neighbors.
So this is really proceeding as planned and actually better than planned.
And then other thing is that the projected EBITDA displacement that I discussed is before the Marriott guarantee.
Got it I understood the revenue and EBITDA I guess I was more asking about the customer view and the customer perception but I think you addressed that with some of the discounts you mentioned.
Moving on to overall transaction activity have you seen any change in posture of either buyers or seller over the past say four weeks given some of the volatility in the equity markets and debate about life cycles? It’s really too early to say there are several transactions that are in the market right now.
I do get a sense that in speaking and channel checking with different market participants I do get a sense that the REITS are generally looking less or feeling less aggressive.
Obviously the dislocation in lodging stock prices here recently I am sure is the driving factor there.
I do think it will be very interesting to see where the transaction markets are at coming out of this summer August tends to be a difficult time of vacations and so forth to get transactions done.
So I think September and October depending on where the lodging stocks are trading will probably be an interesting indicator of where the balance of the year will be from a transaction activity perspective.
All right thanks and congrats on ending the earnings season on a positive note here.
Thanks Anthony.
We’ll go next to Thomas Allen at Morgan Stanley.
I think this is following upon some earlier questions but one of your peer said this morning that they expect group RevPAR to be down high single digit in Q3.
Are you expecting comparable.
We will take a second just to grad that number.
No I mean we are not down anywhere near like that.
But let me get you the exact number here real quick.
One second no our group RevPAR for this year for Q3 is up.
Great thank you.
We’ll go next to Lukas Hartwich at Green Street Advisors.
Thank you hey guys.
Most of my questions have been answered I just have a couple of ones on the markets here.
I noticed your Houston hotels did quite well during the quarter and I was kind of curious whether that was a 2Q event or you think that something that sustainable.
Hey Lukas our Houston assets we have two hotels one Marriott one Hilton and our asset management team started getting a little bit concerned about changes in oil sometime ago and we lucky call it but we took on a piece of training business from non oil related company it’s actually an airline training business that has done very well for us and has protected us.
That piece of business stretches out for some time.
The food and beverage contribution in that group is not all that significant so that’s why you see a little bit a delta the RevPAR trend and the EBITDA trend but we at those two hotels we massively outperformed our competitive set which was down between 4% and 5% in the quarter excuse me year-to-date.
As John said we are -- we continue to look for that kind of business and expect that type of business to help us as well very well in 2016.
Great.
And then the other market that just jumped out at me was Orlando your Renaissance there.
The market looked pretty strong according to travel data.
I'm just curious is that just a near-term blip or is something else going on there that I'm missing? Yeah it really as RevPAR was due to a lower related groups that brought in more catering in other revenues but drove down ADR EBITDA end margin are impacted by the change and accounting by IMF and last year that Hotel had a $230 000 credit in IMF in Q2.
We do expect solid Q3 there and a good Q4 and 2016 looks very good there.
Great.
That's it for me.
Thanks guys.
And we’ll move next to Ryan Meliker at Canaccord Genuity.
Hey guys.
I just wanted to talk about New York a little bit.
The first question I had was the Hilton Times Square it looks like ran 99.6% occupancy for the quarter.
I didn't realize that properties could run that high of occupancy.
So congratulations for being able to bring the demand in.
But Marc do you feel like you left some rate on the table there? Is that something you guys are trying to work through or pushing rate a little more aggressively on properties like that and the Double Tree which was close to 98%? Look we have always run these hotels at a high occupancy given and it’s an interesting point given the fact that we that the city opened about 25 rooms in the quarter.
The reality of that is there is demand there but there demand has a price limitation and so we have found that to keep the hotels full.
We continued to try and drive rate and mix but it’s a phenomenon that’s exist in the city where there are numerous hotels running those kinds of high occupancies and at this point with the continued increase of supply it's just difficult to keep remixing.
Yeah in keep in mind hi its Robert.
Keep in mind the locations of our hotels are especially from a transient perspective are a very favorable locations and they are sought after locations so keeping the mentality of the inventory is truly disposed right once you haven’t sold that room for the night its gone.
We do take our manager at Highgate as I know you guys are very familiar with do take a very aggressive approach to fill those rooms and to get that incremental revenue and I think we do have slightly more success just given the sought after locations.
I think that makes sense but just whenever I see occupancies that high I question whether you're getting the right mix.
I know it's been a challenging market in New York.
Out of curiosity I think John you mentioned July RevPAR was up 3% in New York.
What was your June RevPAR up in New York? Was that also positive? On New York hold on one second.
We'll grab that for you Ryan.
We don’t have it right in hand.
I'm wondering because I know Smith Travel Research said June positive in New York.
And it seemed like with June up and July up maybe trends were turning in New York.
I know you said you expect that RevPAR growth would stay negative.
Obviously the supply is there but the supply was there in June and July.
So what gives you confidence that New York RevPAR's going to turn back negative throughout the rest of the year? Is it just being conservative? I think there is some conservatism in there by the way June was flat.
I think there is some conservatism in there we’ve only seen look about 3% I think realistic possible range is modestly up to modestly down from what we see so far.
And then keep in mind too there is more supply coming we’re not done with the supply -- in 2016 is another big supply more hotels coming in and it will compete.
Sure.
All right.
That's it from me.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks Ryan.
We’ll take our next question from Smedes Rose of Citi.
Hi.
Thanks.
I just wanted to ask you two questions one on Wailea.
I think on your last call you had mentioned that you saw cheaper air fares I think from California a big feeder market into Wailea and Hawaii in general.
Are you still seeing that or any changes in the air lift front that you're aware of that are either helpful or hurtful? Yeah it's a very positive trend actually.
We’ve seen declines -- in the first and second quarters we saw declines 12% to 16% that continues in the third and fourth quarter for our channel checks on flights into Maui and that’s very helpful so even as we talked about at the Boston Park Plaza tour we’ve seen a increase in not only a number of flights but increase in demand from places like Canada so overall just positive trends in the Maui.
Okay.
And then I know you've said you're going to hold off on giving any specifics on group for 2016 but at this point what you're seeing in 2015 would you be disappointed if group in 2016 wasn't at a higher level of revenues than what you're seeing for this year? In other words what we do we anticipate that group revenues will increase in '16? Well yes.
You said for this year it's pacing at 5.6% I think in total group revenue.
And given your positive commentary about some of the city-wides next year would it be reasonable to assume that it will be at a bigger pace next year? I think it's safe to assume that from what we’ve seen now you could see acceleration moving into next year and in terms of group pace.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Rich Hightower at Evercore ISI.
Hey guys.
Hi Rich.
Following up John one of your comments earlier I think I know what you meant by this but when you describe the commoditization of hotel product in New York City now and as it relates to your assets could you just flush that out a little bit and describe what you mean there? Sure.
It seems as if the consumers aren’t distinguishing that much between individual products there might be numerous hotels that they are happy to stay in within a certain submarket and it really then comes down to price it’s been a little -- I think a little frustrating that following upon Ryan’s question we had a property running 99% and basic economics would say that we should be able to materially move rate in that environment and it is pretty amazing watching the revenue managers try and push those rates how quickly that demand goes elsewhere.
So I wish I had a better answer for you but it does seem that the consumers are happy staying at one of many places including trading off the limited service hotels and it’s become pretty rate sensitive.
Okay that's really interesting.
And maybe a bigger picture question that I haven't asked this earnings season the proposed Orbitz and Expedia merger as it relates to some of those factors you're describing in New York or any of your hotels do you have any preliminary ballparking on how that might impact the portfolio? Rich no thoughts yet it’s too early.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
And we’ll go next to Shaun Kelley at Bank of America.
Hey.
Good morning guys and thank you for taking my question.
Good afternoon at this point.
John you mentioned something really interesting about the elasticity of New York from the customer perspective.
Just thinking out loud but as you look at other markets particularly San Francisco maybe Boston do you see any of the same behavior as you get into these very high occupancy markets? San Francisco's done extraordinarily well this cycle.
Why do you think there might be a difference in maybe those two other markets versus New York given that a lot of the transparency tools that at least the consumer has -- again it's probably different for business travel -- but at least that the consumer has should be the same in those other markets? Hey it’s Marc Hoffman.
Look I think there is material difference New York Boston and San Francisco.
Boston and San Francisco have little to no supply coming into those markets for several years moving forward.
New York this year between '15 '16 and '17 has approximately 14 000 or 15 000 rooms coming into the market and I believe a total percentage supply increase of between 5% and 7% but it’s just a big increase and so simply put you have so many more positive with supply and then in both in San Francisco and in New York you have incredible growth of available square footage of office space and growing technology and biomedical and technology in both San Francisco and Boston downtown.
Thanks for that Marc.
I understand that when it relates to the drivers why they could be great real estate investments but I don't entirely understand why that would change the customer elasticity.
If what you're describing is we've got crazily full market in New York but we can't push rate because the customer can just quickly change to an equal substitute I'm just trying to understand like is it leisure versus business mix that is so different between those markets? Because again the consumer's not going to care about future supply right? They're staying today.
So that's why I'm trying to understand.
Because the absolute rates and absolute occupancies in New York are massively better than what you see in Boston or San Fran.
Yes and I think one of the dynamics that is that play in New York is not a play in other markets is because you have new hotels consistently and constantly opening in New York right now there is always a group of hotels that are new hotels that don’t have an established customer base they don’t have established demand base and thus they need to price themselves lower to get themselves introduced with the market.
So you have existing stabilized hotels that are competing with new hotels that have no existing base to grow from.
So it makes them much more price insensitive and thus they’re more aggressive and more discounting.
I get it.
Okay.
That's actually very helpful color.
I appreciate it guys.
Good quarter.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today’s question-and-answer session.
At this time I would like to turn it back to Management for any closing remarks.
Well thank you very much for your interest in the company.
And we will talk to you all soon.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today’s conference.
Again thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today Friday October 30 at 9:00 a.m.
Pacific Daylight Time.
I would now turn the presentation over to Bryan Giglia Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Kyle and good morning everyone.
By now you should have all received a copy of our third quarter earnings release and supplemental which we released yesterday.
If you do not yet have a copy you can access it on our website.
Before we begin this call I'd like to remind everyone that this call contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties including those described in our prospectuses 10-Qs 10-Ks and other filings with the SEC which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
We caution you to consider those factors in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
We also note that this call may contain non-GAAP financial information including adjusted EBITDA adjusted FFO and hotel adjusted EBITDA margins.
We are providing that information as a supplement to information prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
In addition hotel information presented includes our adjusted comparable 30-hotel portfolio which may include prior ownership information.
The 2014 hotel information has also been adjusted to conform with the industry's uniform system of accounts for the lodging industry 11th revised edition which became effective in January of 2015.
With us on the call today are John Arabia President and Chief Executive Officer; Marc Hoffman Chief Operating Officer; and Robert Springer Chief Investment Officer.
After our remarks we will be available to answer your questions.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to John.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today I will provide an update on the performance of our business as well as an update on our most recent investments.
Marc will then provide an overview of our operating results and trends and Bryan will go into more detail about our earnings guidance and dividends.
Overall we are pleased with our third quarter operating results and remain bullish on the strength of our near-term operating fundamentals.
Like any quarter there were both positive and negative events that transpired.
Yet in the end we met or exceeded our operating and earnings expectations.
Let me share a few of the details of the quarter including a few items that did not break our way.
First as you are all aware by now the shift in the Jewish Holidays and the reopening of many schools prior to Labor Day resulted in a few slow travel weeks in late August and early September.
While these events produced challenging year-over-year comparisons they were fully anticipated in our quarterly guidance and our operating results came in at the high-end of our expectations.
Second property taxes at our three Chicago Hotels and our one Orlando Hotel unexpectedly increased an average of 45% resulting in a $2.9 million and $900 000 higher than anticipated hit to earnings for the third and fourth quarters respectively.
We had to expense three quarters of the tax increase during the third quarter which negatively impacted our quarterly margins.
We are in the process of appealing these excessive tax increases and based on past experiences we are hopeful that we will be able to recoup a good portion of the incremental assessment.
Nevertheless we are able to absorb the significant increase in property taxes in our quarterly earnings as revenue growth and expense controls excluding property taxes drove better than expected hotel operating profits.
Bryan will provide more color on this topic momentarily.
And third we reduced our estimates of fourth quarter earnings; as a result of the just mentioned increase in property taxes and $1.5 million to $2 million increase in our estimate of the fourth quarter renovation disruption at our Marriott Wailea.
We were able to accelerate certain elements of the renovation which have resulted in incremental disruption.
That said the renovation is coming along well.
We remain comfortable with the 2016 property level earnings estimates provided at our Boston Property Tour earlier this year and we remain excited about the hotels post renovation profit potential.
As a result of the increase in anticipated renovation disruption in the fourth quarter we also reduced our full year guidance for RevPAR adjusted EBITDA and adjusted FFO per diluted share.
The full year earnings reduction is almost entirely attributable to the increase in property taxes and fourth quarter renovation disruption rather than any notable change in our expectations for near-term operating fundamentals.
Now on a more positive note there were several things that have gone well recently.
First during what proved to be a very tropic quarter for many hotel owners Sunstone produced RevPAR growth adjusted EBITDA and adjusted FFO per diluted share at the high-end or in excess of our guidance in the Street consensus.
Second as witnessed in recent quarters Group spend on food and beverage and audio/video continues to surprise to the upside and exceeded what were very low expectations for the third quarter.
Third aggregate Group production for our portfolio in third quarter was the second highest number recorded during the third quarter in the past nine years and Group rates continue to accelerate.
Fourth we completed the previously announced sale of BuyEfficient an electronic purchasing platform for net proceeds of $26.4 million which we focused all of our efforts on our primary business hotel ownership.
And fifth we were paid the loan on the Renaissance Baltimore Hotel today with the proceeds from a new seven-year term loan which we swap to a fixed interest rate of 3.39%.
This refinancing further reduces our average interest rate extends our average debt maturity and increases the number of unencumbered hotels.
In other words it further strengthened our already strong balance sheet.
In addition to a better than expected quarter we're also very pleased with the progress made at and the near-term outlook for both Boston Park Plaza Hotel in Hyatt San Francisco.
As many of you had seen for yourselves the lobby meeting space restaurants and other common areas in the Boston Park Plaza have been completely transformed and our guests have taken notice.
Group production in the third quarter increased substantially representing a 67% increase in Group room nights booked versus the next highest number of rooms booked in the third quarter in recent years.
Furthermore and importantly Group room nights currently on the books for the next three years have sequential increases in Group rates of 8% in 2016 an incremental 12% in 2017 and an incremental 8% in 2018.
We're very pleased with the guest response to the complete transformation of the hotel podium and are excited to begin the renovation of all the hotel's guest rooms starting next week.
Similarly we're very pleased with the investment in and the mostly completed renovation of the Hyatt San Francisco.
The Hyatt San Francisco produced RevPAR growth of 13.3% in the third quarter and is expected to witness RevPAR growth of 8% to 9% in the fourth quarter.
Furthermore the hotel is well on its way of generating approximately $28 million of EBITDA in 2015 which would represent a 27% increase over the level achieved in 2014.
This itself has dramatically exceeded our underwriting expectations and we remain bullish that the hotel's RevPAR and EBITDA growth will exceed our portfolio average in 2016.
With that I'll turn it over to Marc to discuss our recent operating results and current operating trends.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
To begin with our portfolio achieved the high-end of our expectations for the third quarter.
Our RevPAR growth of 3.9% was made up of a 4.4% increase in ADR and an anticipated 50 basis point decline in occupancy and exceeded the midpoint of our guidance of 3% to 4%.
Total occupancy for the quarter remained a very strong 86% with over half the portfolio exceeding 88%.
Six of our hotel generated double-digit RevPAR growth during the third quarter including our recently and totally renovated Hilton New Orleans our Hyatt San Francisco our Renaissance in Courtyard Los Angeles Airport our Houston Marriott as well as our Sheraton Cerritos.
The performance of our Renaissance Baltimore Hotel continued to be softer than expected in the third quarter.
However very recent trends suggested Baltimore had stabilized and we expect the hotel to produce 4% to 6% RevPAR growth in Q4 and a substantial increase in RevPAR in 2016.
Shifting to our revenue management review for the quarter.
We continue to take advantage of a historically high occupancy levels across our portfolio and shift our business mix out of lower rated channels into higher rated segments.
During the third quarter our operators continued to close out or limit the number of special corporate room rates as well as lower priced wholesale rates in favor of higher paying premium rates also known as bar rates.
During the third quarter our portfolio witnessed a 4% decline in both special corporate room nights and wholesale room nights.
Meanwhile the number of premium bar room nights increased a strong 15% as our hotel operators closed out lower rated corporate and wholesale channels during high occupancy period.
On the Group side for the third quarter we saw Group revenue growth of only 2.1% led by a 2.6% growth in ADR and a slight decline in Group occupancy.
As anticipated Group demand was soft in the third quarter as a result of the calendar shifts.
For the remainder of 2015 our Group pace for all 30 hotels has increased from 5.6% at the end of the second quarter to 6.2% for the full year consisting of 3.8% increase in rate and 240 basis point increase in rooms.
While we have not provided 2016 guidance we would continue to describe our 2016 Group pace as robust with healthy gains anticipated in both the number of Group rooms and Group rates.
While Chicago is expected to have a soft convention calendar in 2016 particularly in the first half of the year we are seeing signs of particular strength in Group trends in our hotels in Orlando Washington DC Baltimore and San Diego.
During the third quarter food and beverage revenues were flat to last year outperforming our low expectations.
Year-to-date total food and beverage revenues per occupied room continues to be up single-digits again because of the holiday shift we had expected our larger Group hotels to perform modestly during the quarter.
Meanwhile other revenues increased 13.1% during the quarter due in part to receiving an insurance payment of $550 000 related to business interruption at the Renaissance Baltimore.
Excluding the benefit from business interruption settlement other revenues were still up over 10% during the quarter.
In summary we were pleased with our third quarter results and remain upbeat regarding the outlook for the portfolios earnings potential and growth going forward.
With that let me turn the call over to Bryan for more details on our earnings balance sheet and guidance.
Bryan please go ahead.
Thank you Marc.
At the end of the quarter we had $267.7 million of cash on hand including $91.5 million of restricted cash.
We have $1.4 billion of consolidated debt and preferred securities which includes a 100% of the $226 million mortgage secured by the Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
Today we repaid the $85.9 million loan on the Renaissance Baltimore with proceeds from a seven year $85 million unsecured term loan.
The term loan matures in 2022 and based on our leverage we'll have a fixed interest rate of 3.39% to 4.14%.
As of today if there is an interest rate of 3.39%.
Following this refinance our debt has a weighted average term to maturity of approximately four years and an average interest rate of 4.3%.
Our variable rate debt as a percentage of total debt stands at 30.6%.
We now have 19 unencumbered hotels that collectively generated $144.6 million of EBITDA in 2014 and an undrawn $400 million credit facility.
Our balance sheet is strong and we retain considerable flexibility to take advantage of opportunities as they present themselves.
Additionally we expect to repay the $30 million loan secured by the Hilton Houston with cash on hand in December of this year when its prepayment window opens.
This will increase our number of unencumbered hotels to 20.
Before I can move on to the fourth quarter and full year guidance let me provide some additional information on the increase to property tax expense.
At the end of the third quarter we received notice from the City of Chicago increasing the values on our three Chicago Hotels between 20% and 60%.
These increased valuations resulted in a full year 2015 property tax increase of $3.4 million which includes a third quarter year-to-date true-up of $2.9 million.
As we are required to do with all tax assessments we have recorded the entire expense and we will proceed with our IPO.
As we saw with New Orleans earlier this year when they increased their taxes by 150% we appealed and received 90% of the increase back at the end of the second quarter.
Unfortunately Chicago is not as efficient and while we believe we have an excellent position to prevail and receive a meaningful portion of this increase back it will not happen until the earliest next year.
We did book a prior year adjustment of $620 000 for our rebate we received from Chicago on a 2013 dispute during the third quarter but have excluded that from prior – excluded the prior year adjustment from our adjusted EBITDA and hotel EBITDA margins as it is consistent with our policy.
Now to update 2015 guidance.
For the fourth quarter we expect RevPAR to grow between 2.5% and 4%.
We expect fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA to come in between $76 million and $82 million and we expect fourth quarter adjusted FFO per diluted share to be between $0.27 and $0.30.
Fourth quarter guidance is negatively impacted by the additional $1 million of property tax at our Chicago Hotels and displacement from our renovation of Wailea.
Excluding Wailea due to its disruption fourth quarter RevPAR would grow between 4% and 5.5% reflecting a 150 basis point impact on our current guidance resulting from the renovation.
Our fourth quarter and full year guidance have also been adjusted for the sale of BuyEfficient which was completed in September.
The sale eliminated $625 000 of estimated EBITDA in the fourth quarter.
For the full-year we now expect RevPAR to grow between 4.75% and 5.5% which declined approximately 70 basis points from last quarter primarily due to additional fourth quarter disruption at Wailea.
Our full year 2015 adjusted EBITDA guidance ranges from $346 million to $352 million and our full year adjusted FFO guidance ranges from $1.28 to $1.30 per diluted share.
At the mid-point this implies a 10.3% increase in FFO per diluted share compared to 2014.
Based on our current guidance we expect our fourth quarter distribution requirement to be between $0.48 and $0.52 per share.
At the mid-point this would be a 39% increase from our fourth quarter distribution for 2014.
We expect to announce the final 2015 dividend amounts and composition of that dividend later in the quarter.
This distribution may be paid in cash and/or a combination of cash and common stock.
With that I would like to now open the call up to questions.
Kyle please go ahead.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
And we'll take our first question from Ian Weissman with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Hi Ian.
How are you guys? If I just think about one key theme this earning season and not just for hotels it's certainly I think across all property types it's been the continued improvement of secondary markets or suburban outperforming urban and the strong bid for real estate by private equity players in those markets.
And I'm sure everyone is going to think of equity residential in that context.
You guys have been very successful sellers of assets in the past.
Can you just comment on the demand for hotels in the private market today and more importantly may be you can address comments or just kind of direct the comment to support demand for portfolio deals by private equity firms today? Sure Ian.
The markets for hotel sales I would say remains robust.
However the players have changed modestly as you can imagine hotel reads by and large are out of the acquisitions game not everybody but I think most of us we clearly are given disconnect between public and private pricing and the questions about which way that person will break.
There are still private equity players that are in the market they remain active some of those private equity players been very large household names some of them being smaller regional players that may be own a hotel or two may be have a small management company may be have 1031 Exchange money.
So really -- it really depends on the size of the asset the location.
And as we have talked about in the past we will endeavor to try and find areas where we can sell assets not just at market pricing but those areas where we believe at – our view of the current economics and the long-term economics do not justify the price that somebody will pay us.
And we have explored a couple of those areas as we do in the regular course of our business.
We continue to explore those opportunities but really nothing to look forward as of yet.
In terms of portfolios Ian I don’t know if we have a great lens on that those are obviously fewer to typically transpire.
So I don't know if I have a great view on that it doesn’t strike me that the debt markets are so robust for hotels that a significant portfolio size could be accomplished but we'll see.
It’s helpful and just changing gears a little bit.
Can you provide just some broad comments about next week both on Proposition F in San Francisco how meaningful is that to that City and obviously the pressures felt by Airbnb just your thoughts on how that could spill over into other cities if they are successful in passing that that proposition? Sure Ian great question.
This is something what we have been engaged with with several of our operating partners several of the other hotel REITs and including the Hotel Unions that we've worked alongside the Hotel Unions on this topic.
For those of you on the line that aren't familiar with Proposition F.
Proposition F is trying to bring some level of regulation and we believe thoughtful regulation in terms of certain limits on the number of room nights one could rent out their house their apartment their couch whatever on Airbnb and other shared sites.
We would reduce it to limited to 75 room nights a year and then would also be several requirements paying taxes and getting certain licenses what have you.
This is not just happening in San Francisco Ian as you all know we are seeing this dialogue and this debate happening in numerous municipalities to various degrees.
I think that this is something that continue to occur.
I don’t think any of us have a problem with what's -- in general with shared economy.
However I would tell you that completely unregulated shared economy I don’t believe it is good for any of us and we will see how this -- we will see how this goes.
Obviously we’re going up against a constituency that is incredibly well funded more funded better funded than we are but we’ll see how it goes and win lose or draw in San Francisco I believe that this is going to be a far more significant dialogue going forward.
Because as you know Airbnb and others are having an impact in certain hotel markets and we’re just trying to level the playing field.
We will take our next question from Smedes Rose with Citi.
Hi Smedes.
Hi how are you? Good.
How are you doing? Good thanks.
I wanted to talk about with Marc you mentioned some strength next year in Group bookings in several markets was that related to positive trends in the convention calendar is that more driven just by the hotels themselves generating incremental Group business and may be you could just talk a little bit more about what you are seeing for the convention calendar overall for next year? Sure.
From a standpoint of the Cities and I will do that first.
Washington DC is currently expecting to be up very strong the City itself it's up 31.8% Baltimore is up 21.4% Boston is up 6.2% New Orleans is up 9.9% San Diego is up 23.6% San Francisco is up 5.4% Orlando is up 11.6% and luckily we have hotels in all of those locations and Chicago we saw at minus 17.
Along with that we have very good pace numbers internally outside of the citywide numbers at the majority of our Group hotels which I sort of refer to anything over 30 000 group rooms.
And so we’ve done a very good job working with the Managers of getting them to be a little more aggressive in filling in Group as we get longer in the cycle and we just seem to be solid.
Okay that's helpful.
Thank you.
John I just ask you to if you’re accelerating the work in Wailea will that property be finished than sooner and come online sooner or? No Smedes we still have the same general timeline.
But as you can imagine in anyone of these renovations there are numerous pieces numerous elements we accelerated one of the elements we’re able to get into the big family pool which for those of you who don’t know the resort it sits smacked our – in the middle of the resort and while we had anticipated getting to that part of the project this year we accelerated it a little bit we also took down the family restaurant we also as we needed to get access points to those areas we’re also accelerating some of the systems work around the disrupted area.
So what it ended up happening was we ended up taking just a little bit more disruption this year we still feel very confident with our overall disruption numbers presented at the Boston Park Plaza when we all met there several months ago.
We will take our next question from Chris Woronka with Deutsche Bank.
Just want to follow-up on that tax question.
I know it’s an issue that is difficult for you guys to predict.
But is there any going forward and I know Chicago is probably out of the way but is there anything kind of on the horizon that's concerning you at least in terms of the initial assessments? Hi Chris it's Bryan.
This is something that we continue to see as municipalities have budget deficits and they go after funds.
Property taxes as historically always been one of the areas they go after.
We saw -- we mentioned that we saw the increase in New Orleans earlier this year.
It was a very efficient process where they increased the amounts we had the hearings we had our appeal and we received a reduction.
I would say that after once we pass through the entire appeal process the end result seems to be reasonable.
It just takes a long time to get there in certain markets and it leads to choppiness when the expense is incurred and when the credit is taken.
Now if you saw in the third quarter we had from 2013 we took a -- we had a credit from an appeal in Chicago that we just received this quarter.
So there can be a pretty significant time lag.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then just on the Park Plaza as you're kind of continuing to build the future book of business there is there any shifts or change in kind of the mix you're expecting there? I know there's a little bit of new supply coming next year and overall it's a solid good market.
Has anything changed there on your business mix? No not in particular.
I think we've got what we found to be a good model in the hotel and we manage between group and transient.
Where we are seeing significant changes is the hotel; we'll end up doing more corporate group both from a group standpoint and corporate from business travel but the mix that we think that we are at is right given the complexity of the building and the type of customer in Back Bay that we sit in and we could not be more pleased with the total pace numbers of the next three years.
We'll take our next question comes from Brill Grow with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Marc you mentioned the Renaissance Baltimore was going to have a restaurant next year.
If you went back and looked at 2015 at the original budget for that hotel and then you looked at the growth for next year how good would that growth be? Well we're not at a point to give you specifics for next year.
What I would tell you is that we feel good that where we will be by the time where all said and done is that we will most likely be ahead of the '15 budget in '16 with some growth.
Okay just trying to see how much is organic versus just recovery from the interruption that happened there? There will be recovery and there will be some organic because the city has a very good group calendar.
All right.
Hey John there are published reports the Doubletree Time Square is on the market.
I don’t know if you -- I can't remember if you'd addressed that publicly or not do you have any comments on that? Unfortunately Bill we have a very stated rule that we can't comment on rumors and generally we'll not comment on transactions prior to closing those transactions or having a great deal of confidence that they will close.
It did come to our attention though that there was some kind of offering memorandum or some kind of teaser trying to raise capital trying to put together a significant investment in the hotel the feeder the signs and numerous other pieces of real estate that we don’t own we don’t control.
I will tell you that we have had no communication with that group that was putting that together.
And so that's really all I can say on that issue.
John in your press release you mentioned being opportunistic if you could sell assets for more than what you thought the value was that you'd do that.
How do you think about using those proceeds if you were in fact to sell some hotels? Sure.
Incremental investment rate right now it's very clear that given a disconnect between public and private pricing that buying our own shares represents a far greater investment opportunity than going out and competing is what is still a fairly competition market for transactions.
Yes most REITs are probably on the sidelines but it doesn’t strike us that to-date cap rates have really moved the valuations have really moved.
So in the past month or two we've traded as high as call it an 8% cap rate on our portfolio which we're proud of and that includes renovation disruption and it does not what we believe is the true earnings power of assets such as Boston Park Plaza and Hawaii.
And so clearly first and foremost considering our balance sheet is in great shape and while on the margin we'll pay down some all loan coming due and Bryan and the team will continue to extend opportunities that’s generally covered.
We do have a fairly significant dividend coming up here which will have a pretty significant cash component to it and that’s going to take a little bit of cash as well.
But clearly our stock rather than acquisitions makes the most sense at this point.
We will take our next question comes from Lukas Hartwich from Green Street Advisors.
Marc can you talk a bit about recent trends in group production? Sure.
In general as John stated earlier our year-to-date group production numbers for the quarter from that quarter standpoint was the best we’ve -- second best we’ve had in eight or nine years.
We continue to see very strong production throughout our portfolio spread throughout our management companies.
In many cases now you are starting to see somewhat of a elongating slightly of the booking window because there is less and less available space.
What’s nice to see is that we all know that at the beginning of this cycle 2010 2011 2012 2013 and even 2014 rate was not moving and we are now starting to see rate move as you would expect at this point in the cycle and we will see it particularly in those high demand markets this year and next year and which will help us into even the out years of 2018 and 2019 as some groups get bought.
That’s helpful.
And then some of your peers have talked about recent increase in cancellation activity.
I’m curious if you’re seeing that as well? Hey Lukas it's John.
We actually have seen an increase in cancellation and attrition and we have had considerable discussions going through the details.
I will tell you there is -- there are both positives and negative place to look at that.
One would be in a negative way if all the sudden we saw spike in last minute cancellations if attrition was higher than anticipated and those fees increased.
A more bullish way a trend that could transpire is that if the operators get more bullish about how compact their hotel is and get more bold in terms of charging those cancellation and attritions because remember at the end of the day it is not as easy as just saying fine send us the check many times it’s negotiation.
And what we’ve seen with several of our operators and why we believe this is actually has while there is not one size fits all we believe that a lot of our increase in cancellation and attrition is actually our operators becoming stronger and charging those fees.
In addition I think the hotel operators and we as a hotel community are getting smarter in terms of not giving a one way option on our product.
If you look at our brethren in the casino space or the airline space it is not an option it’s an obligation when you buy that room.
You pay for a time of reservation.
In hotel space we’ve been elongating that option.
Not so long ago it was 6:00 p.m.
day of arrival and now are going to 24 hours I think it’s very soon will be going to 48 hours we continue to work with our operating partners to get them to elongate that and we have actually seen because of the elongating that cancellation time we’ve actually seen increase in cancellation not from group but from transient travelers.
And that I look at is a very bullish signal because I think it will -- we can structurally change part of this industry.
So again we have spent a lot of time on this topic but I don’t think it has gotten a lot of attention but we actually feel more comfortable with this increase than I think others have come to a conclusion on.
It’s really interesting.
My last question pertains to the Chicago property tax increases.
Are those results of the leasing budgeting plan that was passed or is that something different? Asked a different way does that mean we should expect corporate taxes in Chicago to go again when if this is different? I think it is related I think it was part of a way that they are filling their budget it’s something that was talked about at couple of years ago and then they the increases were much less.
What we tend to see in these Cities is if they want to get a 5% 10% increase.
They come after the property owners with a multiple of that.
So that as it goes through the appeal process it seems like not a bad conclusion to come back with a 5% to 10% increase at the end of the day.
And this was done in -- we’ve seen in a couple of markets we see in Chicago across the board to all property owners.
So I think what you see is that in different cities do it different times.
We have seen an uptick of this probably over the last two or three years.
And so I think that that probably most of it has come through but as the economy gets better as the property types do better it is always a target for the taxes to increase.
Great that is it from me.
Thank you.
Thanks Lukas.
We’ll take our next question from Shaun Kelley with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
Hey good morning guys.
John I just want to kind of revisit that cancellation point because I thought it was an interesting perspective.
So could you just help me understand that a little bit better? I’m a little confused as to once you put into place or once the brand put into place these kind of longer periods before you’re allowed to cancel like why would that increased cancellations? Shouldn't that have the impact of reducing churn and reducing cancellations? Well no question.
So let’s say somebody makes reservation and they have up until 6:00 p.m.
on day arrival to cancel.
Well 5’o clock that night they can cancel we might have difficulties rebooking that room whereas if we had had two weeks of runway we could have rebooked that room.
But now take for example if you go out 48 hours if somebody decides last night if they don’t want that room we will charge them or our operating partners would charge them for that room.
Therefore we are witnessing an increase in cancellation as a result of that.
I’m still totally lost as to why like -- just getting more -- you’re just getting more fee that is what you see in the cancellation is that what you’re saying not the difference in a number? Let me just help you with it.
So the big move in the last year has been the move from 6:00 p.m.
to 24 hour cancel for Hilton and Marriott and Starwood.
And so simply put if you -- in prior if you decided not to show up if you decided to basically not show up many people many people would either not show up and cancel early in which case the hotels can rebook their rooms.
What is happening now is because people are but the elongation is 24 hours allows the manager to charge you that number for that cancellation and in many of our urban environment in a day within that 24 hour we can refill that room.
So the cancellation money is building up and you’re able to continue to refill the room.
So in terms of you measuring cancellations like are you just saying you’re getting more cancellation fees because in your policies or you saying the number of cancellation nights is increasing because I feel like they shouldn’t really be related the cancellation nights should be based on kind of the activity of the consumer and those should go down as people are stickier as you get closer but the cancellation fee that I could totally understand that is going up because that would makes sense as a policy and now that's stricter does that make sense? Yes the cancellation fees are growing up because now we’re actually getting fees for it whereas in the past we weren’t.
It’s not indicative of there are more rooms cancelling.
Got it.
So your cancellation nights would be stable or do you - do not exactly know what those are? We haven’t looked at it so specifically but it strikes us more generally in -- they’ve generally been stable.
Okay got it.
That’s helpful.
Sorry to be obtuse on all of that.
The other just a really different section of kind of thought but couple of the your competitors have talked a little bit about weight average supply growth in their markets and I was curious if you could give us just a general sense if you had it; now this is usually be a some sort of a bottoms up calc that they doing but do you guys have any perspective on your markets and sort of how that plays out for 2016? Yes let me turn that over to Robert Springer our Chief Investment Officer.
Yes good morning.
It is something that as you would expect we monitor very closely as I’m sure competitors do looking at specific markets in it.
It’s clearly going to be a different impact based on submarkets and locations.
A good example would be a market like Philadelphia where our hotel is actually not located in the heart of downtown where some of the new supply is coming in and our hotel is in a more of a protected location and separate submarket.
But I would say if you look at the markets that we’re cognizant to concern with new supply I don’t think it’s going to be any real big surprise the number one is New York City it has been very well talked about a lot of the supply is I mean there's supply opening all over the place in New York.
A lot of it is in the Times Square submarket where both of our hotels are located.
The other market would probably be Washington D.C.
There is a good amount of supply in D.C.
We currently are tracking it at about 5.5% for next year and that our concern there is a lot of that supply is actually from a submarket perspective located proximate to our hotel over by the convention center where there is a lot of redevelopment that is happening on land and around the convention center and on land that used to house the former convention center.
Other markets that I would say we’re not concerned but we’re definitely cognizant of would be markets like Portland Chicago Los Angeles.
Again LA is a great example there is a lot of supply going in downtown.
Our LA assets are located really in the LAX submarkets or in other submarkets that should see less impact from that.
But markets like Portland we were tracking about a 3.5% 3.2% to be technically correct percent increase in supply but that is market that is very runs a very high occupancy and in very high compression.
So there is a good amount of supply but we are hopeful that it can be absorbed effectively.
Really helpful.
And just directionally would have just a weighted average number across the Sunstone portfolio? I don’t have it calculated -- I don’t have it calculated that way but the numbers range low single digits 1% 2% and the higher numbers like in New York City that is 7% 7.4% but I don’t have it calculated across the board.
What I would say is that the percentage in our minds it’s not just a percentage.
If you look at the market like Boston that is a relatively small market it just in total number of rooms it supply next year is actually on the surfaces it’s 4.5% -- well I think it’s 4.8% sorry which in itself you would say that is a decent sized supply increase.
But Boston overall as a market is very compressed and we do feel that the Boston submarket will effectively absorb that supply and are less concerned than we would be in other markets.
Really appreciate it thank you Robert thank you John.
Yes.
Sure.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Thomas Allen with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
One of the interesting dynamics this starting season has just been the labor environment.
I think some of your peers have talked about greater turnover others have run into union issues.
Can you just talk about how you’re operating today and your feelings on this subject? Thank you.
Yes this is Marc.
I mean in general in our portfolio we have not run into unionized labor issues.
I mean I think at this point in the cycle it is quite normal as and the economy grows and we’re an industry that is heavily filled with the younger people who are working through their careers so a turnover does occur.
No more no less than what we’re used to per se.
We haven’t seen anything more than a typical amount of turnover.
It’s tougher to find talented individuals to replace those that do turnover at this point of cycle.
With hotel performance is improving it makes it a little bit more difficult to get talent at the right price and the only area that is struggling to maintain positions in general throughout our portfolio is really housekeeping.
Okay.
And just a follow-up on this what are -- which jobs are the most like are the biggest tickets in your expense base? And then just my final question you mentioned Houston as one of the markets you saw double-digit RevPAR growth in the market.
That obviously I thought was interesting.
Can you just give us some more color on that? Thank you.
Sure.
Your first question as it relates to labor really is a market by market basis.
I mean those cities where you have more expensive labor positions will be depending upon how hotel is made up.
So obviously it’s typically if a cook is more expensive than certain people the tipped positions make less.
As far as Houston goes we had a very nice piece of training business that we worked very hard to find our operator worked very hard to find and that has helped to offset the decline in group and corporate business.
The training contract year-to-date has exceeded their original block but we are unable to determine whether that trend will continue long-term.
But it continues to be in the business and the training block is not energy related.
Helpful helpful.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Anthony Powell with Barclays.
Hi good morning.
A number of your REIT peers and also your managers have mentioned that they saw or are seeing less transient business than they thought they would see in October could you comment on that? That would be great.
I will quickly turn it over to Marc Hoffman but as I said in my prepared remarks we really have not seen any change in our fundamentals and I think that that shined through in our third quarter third quarter results.
And with exception of property taxes and incremental disruption our expectations for the fourth quarter really remained unchanged.
Now there’s certain hotels that as is very typical going quarter-to-quarter do a little bit better do a little bit worse but in general we haven’t seen any material changes in the trends that we currently mentioned.
I will turn it over to Marc for little more detail.
Sure.
Our preliminary October results are currently performing in line with our guidance.
Our 30 hotel RevPAR portfolio RevPAR has increase between 7% to 8% and excluding Wailea our 29 Hotel RevPAR portfolio for October is expected to increase between 8% and 9%.
Got it thanks.
And going to San Francisco there has been a pretty wide divergence of performance amongst some of the hotels there and you’re on the better end of that.
Aside from your renovation that was completed last year what else you think that is driving some of this dispersion in performance and how will it trend next year? Yes sure this is Robert.
I think the couple of factors at play for our hotel specifically are really two one is location.
Our hotel is located farther away from Moscone Center and thus is less dependent on citywide group rooms.
And so its location within the financial district has actually been a big positive.
Separate from that it was really a very conscious decision made by us in cooperation with our operator there to really drive in-house group in anticipation of the renovation of Moscone Center.
So as an asset management team we sat down with the operating team soon after buying the hotel and really moved with the strategy of being very aggressive of getting group rooms on the books in anticipation of the renovation of Moscone and that change has really benefited the hotel because they’ve been more reliant on in-house group than they have been on city business.
All right.
Thank you.
Thanks Anthony.
We’ll take our next question from Ryan Meliker with Canaccord Genuity.
Hey guys.
Good afternoon I guess good morning out there for you.
Most of my questions have been answered but one thing I was hoping to get just a little bit of clarity on it sounded like in prepared remarks John you mentioned that you weren’t expecting renovation disruption to change from your expectations for 2016 and then in the response to one of my earlier questions you said overall that wasn’t expected to change.
I guess overall would imply that the $1.5 million to $2 million for 4Q would come out somewhere else.
Can you just clarify that for me? Remember Ryan we have a pretty big range for revenue displacement in next year for Wailea.
So the overall project we still feel comfortable with the overall numbers.
So some of that shifted a little bit of that shifted from 2016 into 2015 but we still feel fine with the overall number which is a pretty wide range and assumes pretty meaningful RevPAR displacement next year in Wailea.
But just as we’ve seen with San Francisco to a lesser extent and really Boston while there might be some noise and some things moving back quarter-to-quarter we are really excited about our prospects in Wailea the market continues to be strong I think it’s just a forever piece of real estate.
And just as we’re doing in Boston in transforming that asset to one where people want to stay and it now can compete at much higher level.
Remember we’re talking about not getting all the way to let’s say the Fairmont Kea Lani the Grand Wailea or even further away would be the Four Seasons but financial success is just snuggling up to them a bit because if we move our rate 50 to 60 bucks at this hotel which we believe is very realistic our financial successor will be robust once the asset is transformed Okay.
That's helpful.
And can you just remind us what had you built in to your 4Q guidance prior for renovation -- for renovation disruption in the fourth quarter? I'm just wondering how big this change is on what you are originally expecting? Yes.
It's a fairly sizeable increase albeit it was a small portion of the total disruption.
So I think we are at -- just about $1 million in the fourth quarter in terms of disruption.
And we increased that by $1.5 million to $2 million.
That sounds like a very large increase because you're more than doubling it but keep in mind we talked upwards of $20 million in renovation disruption in this asset.
So moving it a little bit quarter-to-quarter I don't view as a significant topic.
Now that makes sense.
And then just one other comment I wanted to hear from you is can you just give us some color on how the Super Bowl is looking for your property in San Francisco obviously you're right at the prime and prime and location in downtown San Francisco.
Are you starting to see a substantial rate lift or are you seeing B&amp;B having a meaningful impact in your ability to push rates? Just any color there will be helpful.
Other than being a Patriots fan that they won again last night.
Yes.
I got Dion Lewis for my fantasy team I was happy.
You're a smart guy.
Look let me just put it this way.
Our team here has now done prior with my experience and our experience here we've done seven or eight Super Bowls and so we are tracking things every week.
We talked to the hotel in very detail.
We have very detail strategy.
We are very pleased if you're aware the NFL basically controls the city via blocks large percentage of our hotel because we're at the NFL experience is taken by that block.
The remaining rooms and suites are in a very tight control.
If you were to go on most websites you would find that most of the major management companies are not releasing those hotel rooms yet and are working through the book even higher rated premium small corporate businesses which we are doing.
But we feel very good and expect that we will hit the numbers that we believe should be hit.
So this isn't going to -- so I guess if for comparison purposes I know there are a lot of people that tend to think about -- think about relative to the New York Super Bowl a couple of years ago do you think it's going to have a similar impact to much stronger et cetera without being able to quantify? Just any color would be helpful.
Yes.
It's really hard for me to -- it's really hard to quantify.
I'm -- New York was a very different situation because the city has more rooms than spread out rather the stadium is further away.
Everybody is going to want to be in San Francisco.
So we feel very good about the Super Bowl being there and we feel good about our model.
Yes.
May be said slightly differently is we would -- New York was an atypical Super Bowl reaction where the -- it was not a huge positive for the City.
We would think that with San Francisco we would be a more typical event like we have seen previously in New Orleans and other markets where it's an -- it is a positive for the city.
Great.
That's what I wanted to hear.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thanks Ryan.
We have no further questions in queue at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you everybody for your interest.
Have a really wonderful Halloween.
And we look forward to seeing many of you at the upcoming NAIREIT or other conferences.
Take care.
And this does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you all for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing-by.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today February 23 2016 at 9:00 AM Pacific Time.
I would now turn the presentation over to Bryan Giglia Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Alia and good morning everyone.
By now you should have all received a copy of our fourth quarter earnings release and supplemental which we released yesterday.
If you do not yet have a copy you can access it on our website.
Before we begin this call I’d like to remind everyone that this call contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties including those described in our prospectuses 10-Qs 10-Ks and other filings with the SEC which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
We caution you to consider those factors in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
We also note that this call may contain non-GAAP financial information including adjusted EBITDA adjusted FFO and hotel EBITDA margins.
We are providing that information as a supplement to information prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
In addition Hotel information presented includes our adjusted comparable 29 hotel portfolio which may include prior ownership information and excludes information for the recently saw double three time square.
With us on the call today are John Arabia President and Chief Executive Officer; Marc Hoffman Chief Operating Officer; and Robert Springer Chief Investment Officer.
After our remarks we will be available to answer your questions.
With that I’d like to turn the call over to John.
Good morning everybody and thank you for joining us.
Today we'll provide an update on our performance of our business discuss a few of our recent transactions and provide our view on the current operating environment.
Marc will then provide an overview of our operating results in trends as well as highlight operating expectations for various markets in 2016.
Bryan will then walk through our recent capital transactions and he will also provide earnings guidance for the first quarter and for the full year 2016.
Overall we were pleased with our fourth quarter operating results which included RevPAR growth of 4.1% and total comparable hotel revenue growth of 4.6%.
Like any quarter they are both positive and negative events that transpired yet in the end we continue to meet or exceed our operating and earnings expectations even what - in what has become a more challenging operating environment and despite meaningful yet anticipated disruption at the Wailea Beach Resort.
In the fourth quarter transient demand was a bit soft in a few markets including in New Orleans New York Chicago and Northern Virginia.
That said the portfolio has performed above our expectations as Group business trends remained strong.
Group room nights were flat in the quarter but Group room rates increased by 5% and our banquet and audio-visual spend per Group room increased a robust 7.6% in the quarter.
From a market perspective New York remains soft but we had strong growth in Orlando Boston Portland and in most of our California markets including San Francisco.
In addition to strong property level performance and earnings growth in the quarter we recently completed several transactions that we believe materially benefited the company and draw a value for our shareholders.
First in December we close down the sale of the DoubleTree Times Square a deal that we've been working on for over a year for $540 million or nearly $1.2 million a key.
This transaction unlocks meaningful shareholder value by monetizing an asset at a price materially above our internal valuation and then the price for some $200 million to $250 million higher than a consensus value of the asset held by both the buy-side and the sell-side analyst.
Furthermore this transaction improved our near-term property level growth prospects enhanced our already strong balance sheet provided us with meaningful liquidity reduced our ground lease exposure eliminated a near-term debt maturity reduced our near-term renovation expenditures and resulted in a significant distribution to our shareholders.
Furthermore this transaction demonstrates that we are willing to sell a trophy asset or shrink the company if it is in our shareholders' best interest.
In addition to the DoubleTree sale we were also able to execute on a more routine yet important financing transactions that further strengthen what is now one of the best balance sheets in the space.
As mentioned on our last call at the end of October we repaid the loan on the Renaissance Baltimore with the proceeds from a new seven-year term loan which we swapped to a fixed interest rate of 3.39%.
In February we repaid the loan on the Boston Park Plaza with the proceeds from another new seven-year term loan which we swapped to a fixed interest rate of 3.65%.
These refinancings further reduce our average interest rate extend our average debt maturity and increase the number of unencumbered hotels.
We currently have only eight mortgages down from 16 mortgages at the end of 2014.
In addition to these recently completed transactions we remain very pleased with the progress made at and the near-term earnings outlook for both the Boston Park Plaza and the Hyatt Regency San Francisco.
Several floors of guest rooms have already been completed in Boston Park Plaza and it looked fantastic.
The rest of the guest rooms will be completed at the end of the second quarter just in turn for what is expected to be a busy summer season in New England.
Similarly the Hyatt Regency San Francisco renovation was substantially completed just prior to the Super Bowl.
The hotel continues to outperform our expectation as the hotel generated $28 million of EBITDA in 2015 representing a nearly 50% increase in hotel profits of over 2014.
Despite recent concerns about the health of the San Francisco hotel market we remain bullish about our location and the prospects within the city.
We're also making considerable progress to the repositioning of the Wailea Beach Resort.
The family pools have been completed and the rest of the resort remains on track to be completed over the course of the year.
While our guidance reflects a fair amount of disruption in Wailea this year we remain enthusiastic regarding its potential earnings growth in 2017 and beyond.
The Maui markets remains strong and lower oil prices have had a direct benefit from Maui and our hotel.
Before I turn the call over to Marc I'd like to provide a few thoughts on the current operating environment.
There has been considerable concern of late regarding the health of the lodging expansion.
On one hand there are reasons to remain positive as most of our hotel level indicators suggest that hotel demand should remain healthy in 2016 and 2017.
For example in 2015 our hotels produced a record $1.5 million group room nights for our current and future periods representing a 1.4% increase in group room night production versus 2014.
Well recently in the fourth quarter our hotels booked 442 000 group room nights representing a 4.2% increase over the prior year.
Furthermore our 2016 group pace is up 12.9% driven by a more room nights and higher rates and group spend on food and beverage and audio-visual remains very strong.
Our group booking pace is the softest in the first quarter up only slightly.
And strongest in the third quarter which is up over 25%.
While group attrition could increase we believe that the underlying book suggest healthy lodging fundamentals ahead.
On the other hand there are headwinds that paint a more sanguine picture.
One cannot ignore the RevPAR growth has decelerated in recent quarters nor ignore that recent transient trends have been softer than anticipated in certain markets.
Furthermore the fourth quarter of 2015 and the first quarter of 2016 have witnessed are expected to witness relatively anemic growth.
Excluding Wailea our portfolio generated RevPAR growth of 1.8% in January which was below our previous expectations.
Perhaps more importantly there are numerous economic indicators that give us pause and they result in softer than anticipated lodging demand.
For example recent weakness in the high yield market the commodities market and the currencies market suggest muted economic growth and have raised the risk of economic recession.
While we believe that our 2016 guidance reflects an appropriate level of conservatism given these economic headwinds.
We also believe that the range of potential outcomes and earnings outcomes is wider than normal.
And therefore the risk of missing earnings guidance has increased.
Whatever eventually happens whether it is no RevPAR growth or outsized RevPAR growth Sunstone is well-positioned not only to navigate but also take advantage of nearly any economic situation.
Our ratio of net debt and preferred to EBITDA is below 2.5 times we have approximately $313 million of unrestricted cash in addition to an undrawn $400 million credit facility and we believe strongly that we have built in earnings growth in 2017 with our soon to be completed repositionings in Boston and Wailea.
With that I'll turn it over to Marc to discuss our recent operating results and current operating trends.
Marc please go ahead.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
I'll review our portfolio's fourth quarter and full year 2015 operating performance in greater detail.
Focusing on the fourth quarter our portfolio achieved the high end of our expectations.
Our RevPAR growth was 4.1% driven all by increases in ADR and exceeded the midpoint of our adjusted guidance.
Total occupancy for the quarter remained a robust 78%.
Six of our hotels generated double-digit RevPAR growth during the fourth quarter including our Hilton San Diego Bayfront our Hyatt Regency San Francisco and our Courtyard Los Angeles Airport.
Our Renaissance Baltimore showed strength in Q4 with RevPAR of 8.3% driven primary from occupancy which is very encouraging after it had struggled for most of the second half of the year following the civil unrest.
Shifting to our revenue management review for the quarter despite pockets of transient weakness in certain markets overall our portfolio saw a growth in transient rate.
Our transient rates overall grew at plus 3.4% in the fourth quarter.
We continue to focus on shifting our business out of lower rated discount channels and into higher rated segments.
Our discount channel declined nearly 2% in room nights but grew nearly 6% in ADR in the fourth quarter.
Our premium business grew 3.4% with a 2.2% growth in ADR.
On the group side for the fourth quarter we saw solid group in revenue growth at 5% all in ADR.
As John spoke group food and beverage trends remained positive we achieved a solid 7.6% increase in total banquet and AV sales per group room night for the quarter.
Moving on to the results for the full year of 2015 our comparable portfolio RevPAR was up 5.9% to $162.42.
For 2015 five of our hotel generated double-digit RevPAR growth led by our Hyatt San Francisco our Hyatt Chicago and our recently renovated Hilton New Orleans.
A few key revenue management highlights for 2015 include the following.
Our premium room revenue improved 6.1% driven by a 4.3% increase in premium room rates.
Our corporate negotiated ADR grew by 4.3%.
And finally our discounted room segment grew by only 2% with discounted room nights decreasing by 4.4% and rates increasing by 6.7% as our operators have effectively shifted mix into both higher rated segments and higher rated discount segments as the main group [ph].
Overall for full year 2015 our portfolio had a 3% increase in sell-out nights as compared to 2014 which is the sixth consecutive straight year of higher sell-out nights.
For full year 2015 our comparable portfolio experienced a 1.6% growth in group production for all current and future years and the highest group booking year we’ve ever had.
Hotels that had strong group bookings in 2015 include our recently public space renovated Boston Park Plaza our Orlando Renaissance our San Diego Bayfront Hilton our Renaissance Washington DC and our recently renovated Renaissance Long Beach.
Looking forward to 2016 our current group pace for all 29 hotels has increased by 12.9% which has increased slightly from our position at the end of the year.
We have group strength in several of our large group box hotels including Washington DC Renaissance the Renaissance Orlando the Hilton San Diego Bayfront and the Hyatt Regency San Francisco.
Now let’s spend some time talking about a few of our key markets in 2016.
First in Orlando.
Orlando as an overall market we anticipate we will see strength in both group and transient in 2016.
PKF’s most recent forecast for 2016 for upper priced hotels indicates a 9% increase in RevPAR the top market growth in the nation.
Our Orlando hotel expects to have significant growth in group rooms with the current group pace of the Orlando Renaissance up 13%.
We anticipate we will see transient strength particularly in the summer months.
This hotel has been largely large contributor to our growth in food and beverage and other revenues in 2015.
Washington DC as an overall market is expected to be positive in RevPAR in 2016 driven by strong citywide calendar.
PKF’s most recent forecast for 2016 for upper priced hotels indicates a 3% increase in RevPAR.
Our DC Renaissance group pace is also healthy at a plus 8% for the full year 2016 driven primarily through group growth in Q2 Q3 and Q4.
Based on the current pace and the total number of group rooms left to book for the year compared to history we believe our Renaissance DC is positioned to outperform the market this year.
In San Francisco we expect to have a solid performance in 2016.
San Francisco as a market benefited from the Super Bowl weekend and should continue to benefit from the limited supply.
Overall the market will be impacted by the renovation of the Moscone Convention Center which has already begun.
But will intensify from June of '16 through June of '17.
However our hotel has strategically focused on corporate and in-house group to prepare for the renovation at the Moscone Convention Center.
Our 2016 group pace for the Hyatt Regency Embarcadero is up 11%.
Well often as an overall market is expected to maintain a solid performance in 2016.
The market will see an increase in the number of citywide as compared to 2015.
However due to size and timing there may be fewer compression dates within the year.
We are projecting our three Boston hotels to deliver between 5.5% and 9.5% in combined RevPAR in 2016.
Moving on to more concerning markets.
Chicago as we've stated in previous earnings call will have a tough 2016 particularly in the first half.
For the full year citywide decreased by 9 with the decline primarily in the first half of the year stronger citywide in the back half of the year.
In addition Chicago had significant new supply.
Enter into the market in the last three years with more coming in 2016 and 2017.
We anticipate Chicago will have a stronger Q3 and Q4 while Q1 and Q2 are expected to be extremely weak for all three of our hotels in the central business district of Chicago.
For New York we expect our Hilton Times Square to lag behind the remainder of our portfolio with negative RevPAR growth.
We believe that New York City as an overall market will have negative growth due to multiple factors.
Following the sale of our DoubleTree our Hilton Times Square represents only 4% of our 2015 year EBITDA well below most of our peers.
Moving on to Houston.
Houston has been and is likely to continue to be a very difficult market for the foreseeable future.
We anticipate that Houston as a market as well as our hotels are likely to experience negative RevPAR growth in 2016.
The market is likely to struggle with both group and transient business due to the reduction of business related to the oil and gas sectors.
Finally New Orleans.
New Orleans has had a slow start to the year due largely to soft transient demand coupled with changes in supply.
We anticipate group will see a pickup later in the year.
But transient may continue to be weak partly due to the reduction of business in the market related to oil and gas.
With that let me turn the call over to Bryan for more details on our earnings balance sheet and guidance.
Bryan please go ahead.
Thank you Marc.
At the end of the year we had $575 million of cash on hand including $76 million of restricted cash.
Adjusted for the common and preferred dividends paid in January which included $186 million of fourth quarter cash distribution to our shareholders.
Pro forma unrestricted cash would have been $313 million at the end of the year.
As of December 31st we had $1.1 billion of consolidated debt and preferred securities which included 100% or $225 million mortgage secured by the Hilton San Diego Bayfront.
On February 1st we repaid $114 million loans secured by the Boston Park Plaza hotel with proceeds from a seven year $100 million unsecured term loan and cash on hand.
The term loan matures in 2023 and based on our leverage we'll have a fixed interest rate at 3.65% to 4.4%.
As of today it bears an interest rate of 3.65%.
Following this refinance our debt has a weighted average term to maturity of approximately 4.3 years and an average interest rate of 4.4%.
Our variable rate debt as a percentage of total debt stands at approximately 21% which is down from over 30% prior to the completed sale of the DoubleTree.
In addition to Boston Park Plaza in December we repaid a $30 million loan secured by the Hilton Houston with cash on hand.
We now have 21 unencumbered hotels that collectively generated approximately $194 million of EBITDA in 2015 and an undrawn $400 million credit facility.
Our balance sheet is strong and we retain considerable flexibility to take advantage of opportunities as they present themselves.
Now turning to 2016 guidance.
A full reconciliation can be found on pages 31 to 34 of our supplemental as well as in our earnings release.
As you all know our 2016 earnings are being negatively impacted by the repositioning of the Wailea Beach Resort which will be completed at the end of this year.
As such our guidance represents RevPAR for both our 29 hotel portfolio and the 28 comparable hotel portfolio excluding Wailea.
As John indicated in his remarks we have increased the size of our guidance range in 2016 to account for elevated economic uncertainty.
We believe that this is appropriate and consistent with our practice of providing a reasonable guidance.
For the first quarter we expect comparable 28 hotel portfolio RevPAR to be between 1.5% and 3.5%.
We expect first quarter adjusted EBITDA to come in between $58 million and $61 million and we expect first quarter adjusted FFO per diluted share to be between $0.19 and $0.21.
For the full year we expect comparable 28 hotel portfolio RevPAR to grow between 2.5% and 5.5%.
Our full year 2016 adjusted EBITDA guidance ranges from $319 million to $343 million and our full year adjusted FFO ranges from a $1.17 to $1.28 per diluted share.
With that I'd like to now open the call to questions.
Alia please go ahead.
Thank you so much.
[Operator Instructions].
The first question comes from the line of Thomas Allen.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Just in the prepared remarks I thought it was interesting you were talking about your leverage levels and you talked about your significant cash position and your lower leverage creates more flexibility and optionality.
So last year you've really positioned yourself as a net seller and any intend to be not buyer this year and how you're thinking about the overall transaction market.
Thanks.
Yeah good morning Thomas.
John here.
We made the call and I'd say about a year ago to be a net seller hotel one because we found that the return expectations in the private market continue to go lower deeper and deeper into the economic recovery.
And honestly we are unable to compete with some of the 1031 exchange money or some of the values being paid for quality assets.
As the year went on it was the same message but for a slightly different reason.
And that we felt we'd be a net seller largely because our cost of equity increased pretty materially as we and several of our peers started trading at very sizeable discounts to NAV.
That has not changed even taking down our NAV estimate a little bit for the sale of the DoubleTree Times Square.
We still see ourselves trading at pretty material discount NAV.
And unless something changes far more significantly in the private market or if there was an asset that somehow strategically made sense for us and quite honestly I think that those opportunities are very few and far between.
I continue to see us more likely than not to be a net seller in this environment.
You have to take into consideration that our own portfolio has recently traded as high of 9.5% cap rate.
We're very proud of our portfolio even with the disruption and at this year and we really believe in how our hotels are positioned in terms of group business over this year and next.
And so trying to find investments that are better than our own share price at this time I think it would be difficult.
That's helpful.
And then just as my follow-up you mentioned that in 2015 you saw a 3% increase in sell-out nights.
Can you give any more color around what kind of rate growth do you saw during those sell-out nights and then maybe additional color just around compression night volume and pricing in general would be helpful? Thanks.
I don't think we do Thomas maybe we can circle back with you on just what the spike is.
I think what you're driving with this and I think it’s a good conversation is is whether or not Airbnb and others are having an impact on super premium rates I would say just anecdotally they probably are I know that more confident [ph] can go into some of the details but those strategies around the Super Bowl is not to wait out for the very very last dollar but we filled the hotel not in the last minute but I think we did it appropriately and we had a very very successful Super Bowl.
Marc do you want to add on that? Yeah.
We'd have to go back and look but we have when you consider the size of the portfolio hundreds or thousands of sell-out room nights.
What I would say to you is that it depends street corner-by-street corner and market-by-market but we certainly have seen whether its Boston Chicago Orlando San Francisco our ability to spike rates on those sell-out nights has continued there hasn't been any change to that in '15.
Very helpful.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Thomas.
The next question comes from the line of Lukas Hartwich from Green Street Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Hey John.
I am curious what do you think that happened to hotel asset values in the last six to nine months? Great question Lukas.
There were trades in the fourth quarter but I would tell that it's very difficult to look at just trades quarter-after-quarter because obviously it's different set of hotels.
So if you look at that you might come to the conclusion; perhaps come to the conclusion that asset values have not declined.
I don't share that view.
I think that it only makes sense that hotel values have come down modestly and I get there one through a theoretical argument which is clearly there has been a more muted view on earnings and operating from them.
Two you have modestly hired debt cost.
Three you have lower availability of debt on the margin and Bryan can speak more to that but the availability of debt has declined a little bit and I think that's put incremental pressure on private equity buyers in particular.
And fourth you've reduced a number of marginal buyers REITs by and large are on the sidelines.
I think some petro-based sovereign funds will see what they're appetite is versus what it was a year ago.
So that tells me you put that on to lender and that tells me could we have already seen maybe a 5% maybe a 10% decline in private market asset values and it probably feels right to me I know and Robert can speak to this.
We have seen evidence of not in our own transactions but we've seen evidence of mid to high single-digits REIT trades on pricing.
Hey I mean - hey Lukas this is Robert.
I think the only thing I'd add to that is all assets are not made equal.
I think one area that we've seen some resilience in value is where there is for lack of a better way to say there is a story right you can change management you can change brand you can do a capital repositioning where a private equity buyer still feels they can go in there and unlock substantial value different than what the current owner can do because perhaps those options only exists upon a sale.
So when you're talking kind of larger urban full service assets that are encumbered and those are probably the assets that had seen the biggest change because when you listen to what John just said in terms of the people that are most likely impacted less buyer’s REITs are less active certain sovereigns are less active.
Those are the assets then they tend to go after it only makes sense less buyers in a simple supply and demand equation if that makes sense.
Yeah.
That's really helpful.
Bryan could you maybe add on the availability of debt comment? Sure.
Good morning Lukas.
We've discussed this before and in times where there is economic uncertainty the markets become volatile the CMBS market is one that can lock up a little bit seize up a little bit and I think what we’re seeing now is that if LTVs for standard a CMBS execution were in the high 60s low 70s before we probably move back about 500 basis points from that availability.
That’s helpful.
And then I appreciate and understand the conservative guidance for the full year.
I'm just wondering if maybe you could quantify that at all in terms of what sort of impact that's having on the guidance other than the wider range? As we thought it was prudent and again I’ll go back to my prepared remarks I mean we’re getting two different signals one signal is that of our portfolio which not every indicator has been wildly positive but when you take a look at our group business particularly when you get into the third quarter like a little bit of the second quarter underlying operating fundamentals appear strong that we all know that that can change.
But when I take a look at what’s occurring in the broader market and I think what’s caused a lot of concern and what’s caused pretty material decline in hotel share prices I think that that has pushed us to incremental conservatism.
Our typical range annual range is about 200 basis points spread in RevPAR and you can quickly see in our most recent guidance we moved at the 300 and I think it's very safe to say that we just moved the bottom in that.
So we will see if we're right or wrong but in markets like this incremental conservatism I believe is warranted.
Great.
That’s it for me.
Thanks.
Thanks Lukas.
The next question comes from the line of Anthony Powell of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning Anthony.
Just another question on guidance assuming your group pace holds close to say 30% for the rest of the year what would have had happened to the rest of your business for your RevPAR to hit the midpoint of your guidance? You know what I think we’re going to have to run a little math for you Anthony and probably get back to you on that.
Right.
I think that’s a little bit of an iterative answer.
I do feel though that in fact our business comes in as we anticipate and transient generally remains at recent levels I think you’d be safe to say that we feel pretty good about our guidance.
And Anthony if you look back over the last two quarters Q3 Q4 when you look at our guidance you look at our results from an adjusted EBITDA adjusted FFO perspective the performance of the portfolio and some transient weakness in Q3 and Q4 you could see that in the RevPAR results or sort of at the - call it the midpoints slightly above the midpoint of the range but adjusted EBITDA adjusted FFO driven by the group ancillary spend food and beverage spend push the performance above the top end of our range.
So in Q3 and Q4 you can see a little bit of the transient softness but still the power of the group goes into performance of the overall portfolio.
Yeah and Anthony keep in mind that we about 33% 35% of our total portfolio is group and that’s heavily weighted to four or five hotels.
Keep in mind that our crossover meaning how many group rooms have been identified and booked.
And some of those hotels ranges anywhere from 80% to 90% in fact I think our Bayfront is probably at 90 call it 3% of all expected group rooms already identified.
No it doesn’t mean that attrition can’t occur so just correct it it’s closer to 85% for the sales in San Diego of all those group rooms that we anticipate for the year were identified on the books.
But as I said in my prepared remarks there are reasons to remain positive on the sector.
Got it.
That’s very helpful.
And just on the cash you have a balance sheet and also your flexibility what would trigger you to be more aggressive given that what share repurchases or any other type of activity given your flexible balance sheet and all the cash that you have right now.
Sure.
And keep in mind because of the DoubleTree sales we were largely out of the market until we were not allowed to repurchase shares given the material non-public information of the DoubleTree sale and the risk of that occurring.
We were at the market really until just the last couple of days in December.
We've been in the blackout window since that point.
Now I also believe it's warranted that in the period like this.
You'll probably see us sitting on more cash than normal.
So I'd like to keep my comments at that for now.
Very clear.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Shaun Kelly of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hey good afternoon everyone.
So John we've - I think we were going to start to pull out a theme from this quarter.
It's been and maybe the last couple of quarters it's been the sort of transient softness versus we've seem to continue to health out of group.
And obviously it seems to be showing up in some of your near-term guidance and then your group booking paces as you move through the year.
So my question is like if you go back and sort of you think through prior cycles and sort of behavior that you've seen.
Has there been a time period where you've seen an extended outperformance of group over transient or at some point do those kind of two-line sort of start to intersect.
Just kind of how do you think through the behavior that is transient leading and group typically follows or is there big enough rate gap between the two that you just kind of occur for a longer period of time.
Interesting question.
There have been times in history where there has been a disconnect between the two.
And I would say it largely depends on what's going in the economy.
As you very well know Shaun group has really been late to this party but in the past call it 12 months has finally showing up in more strength.
Transient seems to be a bit soft particularly in a couple markets and that's either because of supply or shadow supply in markets like New York or foreign exchange New York or other factors we saw in Chicago and New Orleans.
I can't remember back to another period where we saw or another cycle where we saw this specific swing over from transient to group.
But I would tell you in general there are some years that are better or worse from one of the other.
And based on what we currently see we like our group business.
Now remember some of that was not just happened to stands some of that has been planned when we acquired the Hyatt San Francisco we all knew that the Moscone Center was going to be going under the knife and for expansion which we think is long-term it's great for us.
The short-term was going to cost some disruption.
That was an asset that probably never did more than 85 000 to 90 000 group rooms.
And we're probably going up to about 110 because of Marc Hoffman and Robert Springer identified this as a strategy and we grouped up.
So that's one of the reasons why we believe that while we're not completely insulated from that specific market we feel pretty good about our position in that market and where we're located in the city.
I appreciate that color.
and then my guess my follow up is sort to just to build on the answer which is on the transient side we've also seen some of the other companies it feels like starting to do what they can to I guess fill rooms whereas maybe a year ago or year and a half ago we're all talking about pushing price now it's taking the visibility.
And I don't know if that means giving up on rates but it certainly it probably meaning to being a little bit more flexible.
Is that a strategy that Sunstone is more actively pursuing now as well? Excuse me thanks.
I think look I think it comes down towards the end of the day.
It's a street corner by street corner and really week by week.
One of the things we pride ourselves here is our asset management team does weekly deep revenue management calls and does monthly deep group reviews of all pace and not just pace but the actual patterns for each group hotel.
What I can tell you is that in Q4 we had 816 sell-out nights compared to 786 in Q4 the prior year.
For the full year we had 2900 sell-out rooms compared to 2800 and that obviously in Q1 where there is current slight softness.
I suspect we would be moving towards some segments to try and drive some mark.
But not anything that's meaningful at all.
Nothing that really adds up.
And then just the reverse we've been pretty aggressive if you look at our crew room and the crew rooms we have remaining and the crew rate we have continue to book because crew has been pushed out of every major city.
It's pretty healthy.
So I think depending upon times when there are individual hotels that need to fill.
We will do things whether it's filling it but I'm not sure how much that's changed compared to what we did in '14 and '15 because our total portfolio for 2015 ran an 82.3% occupancy which is an all-time high and we want to hold that occupancy and again try and compress where we can.
Great.
Thank you Marc.
I appreciate it.
The next question comes from the line of Ryan Meliker of Canaccord Genuity.
Please go ahead.
Hey good afternoon guys.
I guess morning out there.
I guess one quick little thing that I was hoping you guys could shed a little bit of color on.
Just kind of how you are expecting the disruption that you've got built into your guidance.
I think $14 million to $16 million overlap and then 2.5 to 3.5 that Boston Park Plaza on a quarterly basis just so we can make sure there were more modeling things out correctly from a quarter-to-quarter basis.
So from a revenue perspective it's pretty heavily weighted into the second quarter Ryan and so roughly speaking it's probably call it between Boston Park Plaza and Wailea call it 4 million in the first quarter about 10 in the second quarter and about 4 to 5 maybe in the third quarter.
And then by the fourth quarter we're by and large were wrapped up on both assets will be a couple of things in Wailea that we're continuing to clean up and finish.
But the heavy construction will be done in both the hotels.
Right.
So 4Q will be a little bit of talent relative to the 2 million that you incurred this year.
It should be.
Okay great.
And then the second question I had was just I'm curious to get your thoughts.
You talked a lot about your the NAV discount that you are stock sees as well as peers.
You obviously did a great job executing the sale of the DoubleTree that had significant capital gains.
How come you elected to payout such a large portion of the capital gains dividend in the form of stock given you have so much cash on the balance sheet.
I understand the idea of wanting to maintain a high cash position.
But I would have thought that given the NAV discount you may have less inclined issue so much so many share even if it's in the same shareholders.
Yeah and I think that's a very important point it's two same shareholders.
So we look at that very simply as a stock split and we are able to hold on the incremental cash.
It was a significant distribution call it roughly a $12 share price it was $1.26.
So it was a significant distribution and we believed and we received some fairly good feedback from our large shareholders that they were fine with us holding on to a portion of that cash.
It also allowed us to achieve our long-term capital goals which you remember Ryan you've been around this business long time five years ago our debt preferred to EBITDA was almost nine times.
That's not only high I would say that's dangerously high for a hotel company and we as a management team set off to change the balance sheet once in for all and by holding on to that cash we got down to below 2.5 times which was the lofty goal that we set out five years ago.
So I believe we’re in a very good position I know that our large shareholders trust us to hold on to the cash and we’ll see if we can make even more money with that cash going forward.
All right.
Thanks for the insight John.
Sure.
The next question comes from the line of Meade Rose [ph] of Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Now that you’re mostly out of New York or I'm just curious do you have a sense of what the supply growth is for your portfolio over the course of this year and next year? Yeah we don’t have it aggregated as like one specific number that I can give you weighted average or so or something of the like.
Obviously the market that we’re most focused on or most concerned with from a supply perspective is New York with supply growth that we’re tracking close to 7% in 2016.
Most other markets candidly that were exposed to supply growth is call it 1% to maybe 3%.
Boston has a couple of projects delivering although we’re less concerned given the location of our assets we’re less concerned with the impact that they’re going to have keeping in mind that in many respects Boston Park Plaza is in itself somewhat new supply for the market because of the level repositioning Chicago is a market that has just gotten in amount of new supply and it just seems to keep coming.
Other than those markets New York Chicago there is not really markets that we have significant concern with as it specifically as it relates to our I guess New Orleans has had a decent amount but again all those numbers are really kind of in the 1% to 3% range.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thanks.
I just wanted to have do you have what percent of the rooms that the Boston Park Plaza are now completed renovating? Approximately 45%.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
The next question comes from the line of Rich Hightower of Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon everyone.
Hey Rich.
Just want to follow up on the comments on the balance sheet kind of appreciate you taking this back in times when Sunstone’s leverage was much higher obviously it’s much different picture today so my question is this have you gotten any feedback from your major shareholders that might suggest people want Sunstone to get to potentially go the other way at some point in the future and lever up from - what’s almost a sector low leverage sort of fruition and if not what would kind of you willing or patient with sitting where you are today at this leverage level? No we haven’t received any of that specific feedback.
However I will tell you part of our business plan is to eventually re-lever particularly when operating fundamentals not really if but when operating fundamentals turn south and while I don’t necessarily think that that’s this year at some at point in the future we know given the economic sensitivity in this business that there are ebbs and flows.
It has always been our business plan to have the capacity to take on incremental debt during those downturns because we believe that it’s in those downturns that one can make most amount of money and it's also the hardest for people to access capital.
Well it’s very simple that we could take a substantial lift to earnings and not only take off in the defensive cost of returning assets at the bank not funding capital expansion having the way people are always very negative things will lead to destroy value and instead continue to go on - even in the most leveraging of those scenarios which is share repurchase.
So fully believe Rich that in some point in future our leverage will increase and could increase fairly meaningfully but never to a point that we would put the company at risk or risk our liquidity.
And John what do you think the max sort of leverage level might be in that sort of the scenario where potentially you lever up significantly the buyback stock in a downturn or some other sort of combination of that? You know I think that if we have a handle on where we are in the downturn if we have a handle on the liquidity on our debt maturities we have all those things under control.
I think you can easily see us managing at the leader [ph] of earnings probably to five or six times debt preferred that’s not scary I mean some of our - I think there is other folks out there that are higher leverage levels in that right now.
Yup that’s right.
Okay.
Thanks John.
Appreciate the color.
Sure.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
Please continue Mr.
Arabia.
Well thank you so much.
We really appreciate the interest in the company and several of us are around today if you have any follow-up questions.
Greatly appreciated and we’ll see many of you soon.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect your line and have a great day.