Greetings ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the BB&amp;T Corporation First Quarter Earnings 2011 Conference Call on Thursday April 21 2011.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Ms.
Tamera Gjesdal Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for BB&amp;T Corporation.
Thank you.
Ms.
Gjesdal you may begin.
Thank you Clayton and good morning everyone.
And thanks to all of our listeners for joining us today.
This call is being broadcast on the Internet from our website at bbt.com.
We have with us today Kelly King our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Daryl Bible our Chief Financial Officer; and Clarke Starnes our Chief Risk Officer who will review the results for the first quarter of 2011 as well as provide a look ahead.
We will be referencing a slide presentation during our remarks today.
A copy of the presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental financial information are available on the BB&amp;T website.
After Kelly Daryl and Clarke have made their remarks we will pause to have Clayton come back on the line and explain how those who have dialed in to the call may participate in the Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin let me make a few preliminary comments.
BB&amp;T does not provide public earnings predictions or forecasts.
However there may be statements made during the course of this call that express management's intentions beliefs or expectations.
BB&amp;T's actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to be materially different is contained on Slide 2 of our presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
Our presentation includes certain non-GAAP disclosures.
Please refer to Page 3 and the appendix of our presentation for the appropriate reconciliations to GAAP.
And now it is my pleasure to introduce our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Kelly King.
Thank you Tamera and good morning everybody and thanks for joining our call today.
We had overall a solid quarter based on particularly continued improvement in credit cost progress in our balance sheet diversification and especially strong performance in corporate banking which I want to spend a little bit of time talking with you about.
So if you're following along into your deck I'm on Page -- Slide 4.
We had $225 million and first quarter net income available to shareholders up 19.7% compared to Q1 '10.
EPS was $0.32 which was up 18.5% compared to Q1 '10.
So good solid performance numbers there.
We also had solid average loan growth particularly when you look at the detail.
We were pleased to have overall total loans held for investment growth of 1% particularly good in a challenging economy and our intentional material runoff in real estate loans.
That total does mask some strong performances under there where we have 3.8% growth in Sales Finance 22.7% growth in Residential Mortgage and also a very strong 8.7% growth in C&amp;I.
So the components of loan growth are much stronger than the aggregate total.
Likewise in deposits we had strong growth in average client deposits especially in low-cost deposits.
Our average client deposits increased $2.1 billion or 8.7%.
Importantly client deposits excluding CDs we have had a strategy as you know the last several quarters of managing down our CD cost.
They increased $3.2 billion or 16.8%.
And for the second quarter on the row our credit metrics improved across the board which I'm very excited about.
So OREO NPLs our performing TDRs delinquent loans NPL inflows watch list loans and charge-offs all declined again this quarter.
So now I'm able to have 2 wonderful slides taped to in my ceiling over my bed.
So this is really a good thing.
I'm looking for about 10 of them Clarke.
So we'll keep that dream going.
We did sell approximately $500 million in problem assets during the quarter and we expect to sell something more than $500 million in problem assets during the second quarter.
I would point out that we are moving to what I'd tell a clean-up phase on loans held for sale and remember -- and now we only have about $189 million left.
So that program is about over.
Outlook remains very positive on credit costs.
They will continue to come down over the next several quarters.
And Clarke will give you a lot of detail on that in just a minute.
If you turn with me to Slide 5.
Remember as we talked about this 2.5 years ago we said that we would be focusing for the next several years on balance sheet diversification because going through the crisis we determined that we were heavier investing in real estate than we wanted to be and really wanted to improve our low-cost transaction accounts.
So we've been focusing very strongly on that through our community bank.
The execution has been outstanding.
We believe we have the best value proposition in the marketplace based on independent research showing that our client service quality is the best amongst our peer group.
So in terms of mix improvement in the loans area we were very pleased to see that first quarter's new production mix was 85% C&amp;I and only 15% CRE but that continues to move down the road in terms of improvement mix.
Same thing in the deposit mix improvement area.
We did have a strong 8.7% increase in average client deposits as I mentioned on a linked-quarter basis.
Importantly we had net new transaction accounts of 15 000.
And first quarter is usually one of our not strongest quarters.
Noninterest-bearing deposits increased to 21% of client deposits in the first quarter versus 18% last year.
That's a material change in 1 year.
We were very pleased to be a leader in introducing a  money market account.
It's actually a cash reloadable card.
It's really good for the under-banked segment.
It gives them an opportunity to have a -- effectively a debit card which they can load with cash at their discretion.
And very very well received.
We did move in the quarter towards Bright Banking as we moved away from free checking and actually have introduced in the first couple of weeks of April a new Bright Banking lineup which is effectively a variety of products where you can have it free but you have to have various qualifiers.
Note there's no pure free [ph] with no otherwise justifying balances.
The cash results we did during the first quarter on this new product lineup were very very strong.
And so now as I said that's effective in the second quarter.
And we think that will be well executed on.
In the small business area we continue to do -- be strong and make progress.
We had 2% growth in total households compared to last year.
And I would point out that we are a very strong small business lender and particularly in the SBA program which really helps a lot of our smaller clients and amount is capitalized as they'd like to be.
So we were the most active lender in SBA in North Carolina and Virginia two of our largest states.
We're very pleased about that.
We have a number of other growing niche lending businesses like small ticket consumer prime auto commercial leasing commercial mortgage.
All those businesses are doing well.
So we've mentioned to you in the past last 3 years or so we've been focusing on our Trust and Investment Advisory business that continues to go well.
Trust and Investment Advisory revenues were up a strong 9.7%.
Wealth is doing even better revenues up 14% compared to first quarter of '10.
So that business is really gaining traction for us.
And our Investment Services produced a record quarter.
As I mentioned in my preliminary comment I'm very excited about our opportunity in Corporate Banking.
This continues to do extraordinarily well.
For example we had 21% growth in large corporate banking than compared to the first quarter of '10.
In the first quarter we were in the top 10 in Southeast in bookrunning in the middle market space.
Our energy team which we mentioned to you before is now in place.
It's been in place for about 5 or 6 weeks.
We actually had a report from them earlier this week.
They're off to a great start.
They've already done several deals.
There's several more deals that will be closed in the next 30 days.
And they've only been with us a few weeks.
So very very impressive this new team.
Opportunity there for us is very very strong.
And in this whole corporate space I would tell you that our pipeline is very strong.
It gained momentum in the first quarter.
We are expanding some industry specializations.
And so we expect a very very good performance in this corporate banking area where in general we have just been underrepresented.
The fact is for a bank our size we have a tiny share of the national corporate banking market.
And so now that we are out aggressively looking for it we've been extremely well received.
Our name is well known.
Our quality institution plays well.
And frankly a lot of these large companies need and want to bank like us in their groups.
So good results so far; excellent opportunity going forward.
I'll remind you that we've been aggressively adding revenue-producing FTEs.
We've hired 200 or so since last year this time.
The others added during the course of the year because we think the revenue opportunity is budding and we're making the investments to take advantage of that.
So if you turn with me to Slide 6.
A little more detail in the loan area.
I'd say our loan performance is very solid particularly given our diversification.
I know there's a lot of concern out there about what's happening in the market what happened in the first quarter.
I would describe the first quarter as a mixed quarter.
The first part was pretty strong.
We did definitely experience a slowdown in the second half of the first quarter.
I personally think this had to do with all that's going on in Japan and Northern Africa.
Every time we have these major global events it just kind of puts people back.
They take a little bit of time to digest and think about it.
But the underlying strength of economy we think is very firm.
Comps as we believe will continue to build.
Fact is companies need to invest.
And they've been sitting on their hands for several years.
And they've got in there some plant equipment and other revenue-producing opportunities.
I believe based on discussions that business leaders are very encouraged by the tone in Washington around deficit discussions.
I know S&amp;P didn't feel too good about it but given the reality of that group up there I think it's very encouraging that both sides are talking about credits and both sides are throwing out big numbers.
And so that's the first time that's happened in a long time.
So I'm pretty optimistic that while it'll be nasty probably in the process we'll get some meaningful deficit reduction and that would be very encouraging to the market.
So if you look at our average loan growth our highlights -- our C&amp;I again is a strong 8.7% on a linked-quarter annualized basis.
Other CRE did see a linked-quarter decline which again part of that portfolio we are trying to run off.
Although we're down a little bit from what we would hope 3.8% but still good.
It probably will pick up and go later through the year.
Residential Mortgage was a strong 22.7%.
Specialized lending on a linked-quarter basis did decline 7.2%.
But we have the lowest group of specialized lendings.
And then a couple of them are pretty seasonal particularly our insurance premium finance businesses.
So you have to kind of look under the covers.
So for example our Commercial Mortgage business is up 131% commercial leasing's up 23% small ticket consumers up 4.5%.
So all of our special lending strategies are working great it's just you get some seasonality there.
And it will come back stronger as we had into the rest of the year.
I would point out that as you know we have been very conscious say for the last 3 years very focused on running down our ADC portfolio.
We peaked at like $9 billion.
We're down to about $3 billion.
You'd see for this quarter annualized is down a whopping 41%.
Covered and other acquired loans were down 35%.
So if you look at our total loan growth again at 1% that's masked all [ph] those substantial runoffs.
The sub-total excluding that is a pretty strong 5.2%.
And then C&amp;I is up 8.7% and large core's at 21%.
So if you kind of walk through the progression of the strategies that we're focusing on we feel pretty good about our loan growth and prospects going forward.
We did say in January that we expected 3% to 5% in loan growth for the year.
And frankly we still feel very good about that guidance for the year.
If you follow with me on Page 7.
Our diversification plan in deposits is very much on track.
You could see that over the year deposits are relatively flat.
But again that's been the mix change.
So you will notice that noninterest-bearing deposits quarter-over -- year-over-year is up 13.7%.
Now the first quarter annualized is down 0.7% but remember we get seasonality in the first quarter.
So it's best to look really on deposits at common quarters.
And so other client deposits are up 8.1%.
Client CDs are down 31%.
That is exactly on plan.
Remember we inherited a lot of single service very expensive CDs through Colonial and some are managed through some of our  previous mergers that were just really not full banking relationships.
And so given the relatively soft loan demand it just didn't make sense to keep paying high prices for CDs and so we've been consciously running that portfolio down.
We continue to help improve our cost.
Our interest-bearing deposit cost decreased to 0.82% in the first quarter compared to 0.90% in the fourth.
So it's coming way down already and continue to improve which is a part of that strategy.
I will point out that we have kind of completed that strategy of CD runoff.
We fell bottom.
We now have a strategy of stabilized  and relatively slow growth as we go forward.
And you could see that in the distinction between the common-quarter comparison and the linked-quarter comparison.
So you can look for that to be stable to kind of slowly growing as the rest progress through rest of the year.
Importantly our average client deposits including CDs increased $3.2 billion or 16.8% on annualized linked-quarter basis.
That is very strong growth in the deposit area.
So we feel good about our loan diversification strategy our deposit diversification strategy and think they will continue as we go forward.
Now let's turn to Clarke and get some more detail in our credit trends.
Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
I'm very pleased to report continued positive trends in our credit performance for the first quarter.
As Kelly indicated earlier we again experienced broad-based improvement reflected by linked-quarter improvements in our key credit performance measures from the early stage indicators all the way through to nonperforming asset levels and losses.
This performance reflects the second consecutive linked-quarter improvement in our credit indicators and is very consistent with our efforts to move more aggressively and resolve problem credits and move through the last stage of this credit cycle.
Given these solid results and an improving economic outlook we continue to feel confident about our future credit direction.
Over the next several slides I'll share some color and key drivers for these improving trends.
Slide 9 provides more detail providing the early stage indicators.
As we discussed last quarter our internal watch list problems continue to decline reflected by a 2.6% decrease this quarter.
We also experienced a very strong reduction in early-stage delinquencies that would be the 30- to 89- and 90-day plus buckets of over 20%.
This is in fact the lowest level of delinquencies in 3 years.
A 21.8% reduction in commercial delinquencies together with the very strong results in our retail oriented portfolios contributed to these results.
As we've discussed with you on numerous times during this credit cycle our primary credit issue has been the stress in the single-family ADC portfolio.
Remind everyone it still only represents 3% of total loans yet accounted for approximately 22% of the NPLs 21% of nonaccrual inflows and 17% of losses this quarter.
Therefore we've been working very diligently to work through the problems in this portfolio as quickly as possible.
I'm really pleased to tell you we made excellent progress this quarter reducing balances by quarter end by over $500 million including the held-for-sale bucket.
As a result we feel very good about the progress towards rightsizing this Lending segment which should help us substantially reduce nonaccruals and total nonperforming assets as we look ahead.
Turning to Slide 10.
We're very pleased to report a third consecutive quarterly decrease in both performing TDRs and nonaccrual inflows.
Total performing TDRs decreased 11.3% this quarter including a 27% decrease in commercial TDRs.
Even though TDRs are low we continue to believe that prudent modification efforts do positively impact our portfolio performance.
You can see this as 73% of all TDRs are in the performing status and 90% of performing TDRs are in fact current.
Our nonaccrual inflows were also lower this quarter down 8.3% with commercial inflows down 8.1%.
If commercial inflows make up the majority of total inflows their continued improvement is another indicator of improved credit quality.
We'll note that the current level of commercial inflows continues to reflect our aggressive efforts to resolve existing watch list credits.
As our watch list continues to decline we would expect that inflows would continue to improve each quarter as we move ahead.
Slide 11 indicates the total nonperforming assets peaked about a year ago and has steadily decreased for 4 consecutive quarters.
Total NPAs were down 2.7% in the quarter with NPLs down 2% and OREO down 4.2%.
Looking ahead we expect to see steady reductions in nonperforming assets each quarter with a major opportunity to accelerate the reduction associated credit cost in the second half of this year.
Strong execution of our problem asset disposition strategy drove these results.
As Kelly indicated we sold more than $500 million of problem assets in the quarter but we're very pleased that the average sales prices were consistent with our targets.
This includes OREO sales of approximately $177 million which we think frankly is very good given that the first quarter's usually a seasonal low point for OREO sales.
We also had nonperforming note sales of approximately $326 million.
So the total nonperforming held-for-sale note bucket was reduced to $189 million by quarter end.
Remind you all that it started at $1.3 million a couple of quarters ago.
We continue to revalue this remaining inventory on a quarterly basis since market down to about 50% which is consistent with our actual results for the program to date.
Kelly also mentioned earlier we expect to produce a similar level of problem asset sales in the second quarter likely to be more than $500 million.
This will include certain loans probably that will classified today as held-for-investment.
I do want to reiterate what Kelly said.
While we don't expect to continue to transfer of large blocks of loans to held for sale we will from time to time sell problem assets when we get a good opportunity.
On Slide 12 you'll note that our charge-offs for the quarter were down nicely 1.65% almost 25% compared to the fourth quarter.
This is the second consecutive quarter with considerably lower losses.
As a result we continue to reaffirm our prior charge-off guidance which is for charge-offs to decline through about 150 basis points later this year.
Due to the improved portfolio performance our provision expense decreased significantly this quarter and came in at about 84% of net charge-offs.
While our provision was down for the quarter we continue to maintain very strong NPL coverage ratios at 103% excluding our covered loans.
Our current allowance now is approximately 1.5% current quarter charge-offs which we feel very good about.
So continued improvement in our credit quality trends against the more positive economic outlook should allow for further reductions in provisioning and other credit-related costs in 2011.
Daryl will give you more color in a moment regarding those specific credit-related costs.
Finally looking at Slide 13 I'd also like to comment on the current mortgage environment which we believe is a very good story for BB&amp;T.
As we have told you all before we operate a very traditional low-risk mortgage business and it's very focused on client service.
Remind everyone we were again named the highest in customer satisfaction from J.D.
Power among all mortgage servicers.
Over the last several months we've completed various reviews of our mortgage servicing processes and standards and we feel frankly very good about our program.
We didn't participate in private label securitizations actively.
We don't have issues with robo-signing or dual tracking assignment issues.
We don't foreclose through MERS.
And also we have had a very successful HAMP modification program with a much higher success rate on the conversion of the trial mods to permanent mods versus the industry.
In terms of repurchases we had a decreased first quarter with only $38 million in total repurchases.
So this issue really is immaterial for us and very modest compared to what others in the industry are experiencing.
Finally BB&amp;T is not a participant of any regulatory or legal settlement process regarding mortgage servicing.
So in summary everything that we're seeing from a credit perspective is positive and continues to move in a better direction.
The success over the last several quarters with the execution of our asset disposition strategy combined with a clear improvement that we're seeing early credit quality indicators supports our confidence that our credit problems peaked last spring.
So we would expect improved results and lower credit costs each quarter as we move through 2011.
So with that I'll turn it over to Daryl for his comments.
Thank you Clarke and good morning everyone.
I'm going to discuss net interest margin fee income noninterest expense capital and the dividend.
I would like to continue on Slide 14.
Net interest margin came in at the higher end of our range we discussed on our last earnings call.
For the first quarter margin was 4.01% down 3 basis points from the fourth quarter.
The margin continues to benefit from positive funding mix changes lower cost of funding and wider credit spreads.
When you adjust for nonperforming assets and interest reversals to a more normalized level our net interest margin would be about 10 basis points higher.
Net interest income on covered assets decreased $23 million compared  with last quarter.
However the impact on revenues was a positive $19 million.
We are raising our guidance for margin for 2011.
We expect margins to remain in the 4% plus range for the rest of 2011.
The drivers for this improvement are faster loan growth positive funding mix changes and falling interest-bearing liability costs.
Also as you can see on the graph on Slide 14 we remain asset-sensitive and well positioned for rising rates.
Turning to Slide 15.
Our fee income ratio of fell to 40.1% from 41.8% in the fourth quarter.
The decrease was mostly attributable to lower mortgage banking income and service charges on deposits.
And as we expected service charges on deposits decreased due to regulatory changes.
Our goal is to minimize this loss revenue while continuing to be responsive to our clients.
We told you last quarter that product and pricing initiatives are being tested throughout our footprint.
As a result we introduced BB&amp;T Bright Banking earlier this month.
Bright Banking replaces our free checking product.
As a client it does not need the various qualifiers they will be charged a monthly maintenance fee.
Approximately 2/3 of our clients already meet the qualifiers to avoid the monthly maintenance fee.
Bright Banking significantly reduces the number of unprofitable retail checking accounts.
Going forward we will continue to test product and pricing initiatives in order to offset the effect of new regulations.
Check card and bank card fees both remain strong due to the higher activity and increased account penetration.
Mortgage banking income for the first quarter was $95 million compared to $138 million in the fourth quarter.
This decrease was mostly due to a 32% decline in application volume lower net gain on MSR hedging and lower margins on production.
Investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions contributed $87 million for the quarter still very strong compared to the all-time high of $97 million in the fourth quarter.
Finally this quarter the FDIC loss share returned to a net expense due to no provision offset for covered loans as we saw last quarter.
The expense was $58 million.
In terms of our outlook for fee income we expect stronger fees from insurance plus improved service charges related to Bright Banking and growth in investment banking.
The insurance market is showing signs of improvement due to better economic conditions.
Our focus on corporate banking will help drive stronger investment banking revenues.
On Slide 16 you will see that the efficiency ratio increased to 57.1% from 55.3% last quarter primarily due to lower revenues this quarter.
Going forward we expect the efficiency ratio to trend down for the remainder of 2011 falling to the mid-50s due to stronger revenue and moderating expenses.
The efficiency ratio is also higher due to significant credit costs.
Assuming a more normal environment we estimate that the efficiency ratio would fall about 2.5 percentage points.
Given this we will have more significant positive impact on earnings as credit costs come down.
We estimate approximately $700 million of earnings are tied up in foreclosed property personnel legal professional loan-operating processing and lots revenues due to higher nonperforming assets.
When these costs and revenues normalize we will see $0.60 to $0.65 lift in earnings per share excluding the impact from lower provision expense.
Personnel expense increased $15 million or 9% annualized linked quarter mostly due to higher Social Security and unemployment taxes due to the annual reset.
Foreclosure expense decreased $19 million or 47.6% annualized largely due to lower losses on write-downs on foreclosed properties.
We are pleased to see these costs coming down.
Professional services decreased $21 million primarily due to improved credit environment.
Additionally our FTEs were relatively flat on a linked-quarter basis and decreased 564 on a common-quarter basis mainly related to Colonial.
We plan to continue adding FTEs in revenue-producing areas throughout 2011.
We will continue to focus on driving positive operating leverage which as I said earlier will move our efficiency ratio back towards the mid-50s this year and ultimately to the low-50s in the next couple of years.
The first quarter effective tax rate of 19% was on target with what we communicated last quarter.
On Slide 17 you will see our capital ratios remain among the strongest in the industry.
All of our capital ratios increased in the first quarter.
Tangible common at 7.2% Tier 1 common improving to 9.3% Tier 1 capital at 12.1% leverage capital at 9.3% and total capital of 15.8%.
On internal capital generation provides significant financial flexibility for both organic and strategic opportunities.
Based upon our preliminary assessment with our current projection of Tier 1 common under Basel III we are well in excess of the required minimums.
Turning to Slide 18.
In March we received no objection to our proposed capital plan from the bank regulators.
And we immediately raised our dividend and announced a special $0.01 dividend which will be paid in the second quarter.
Our targeted dividend payout ratio remained at 30% to 50% of earnings.
Related to future capital actions we currently plan to call our trust preferred securities in 2013 and as the instruments start to lose regulatory capital and issue approximately $1.75 billion in late 2012 of Tier 1 qualifying instruments in order to maximize 150 basis points allowed over Tier 1 common.
Lastly we are very pleased to remain with the strongest dividend payout ratio among the 19 stress-tested banks.
With that let me turn it back over to Kelly for closing remarks and Q&amp;A.
Thank you Daryl.
So we think we are well positioned for the future based on the following: We do expect meaningful declines on our credit cost as Clarke described.
Our client service metrics and value proposition in the markets are at all-time highs.
Outlook for loan growth is steadily improving.
We do expect stronger revenues throughout the remainder of the year and the underlying performance of virtually all of our businesses is strong.
And we have specific opportunities I'd point out to you in C&amp;I lending corporate banking prime auto investment banking wealth and specialized lending.
And then just as a reminder we think overall long-term corporate trends are the kind of emerging re-intermediation process which we continue to believe will be material for us and the industry; significant investment revenue growth strategies over the last several years which are really paying off now and going forward; meaningful merger opportunities.
Our community banking model is we believe the best in the marketplace.
And we operate in some of the best growing markets in the country maybe in the world and we believe we have the best team on the street.
So we're very optimistic about the future.
We believe our best days are ahead.
So Tamera with that let me turn it to you for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Kelly.
Before we move to the question-and-answer segment of the conference call I'll ask that we use the same process as we have in the past.
To give fair access to all participants you will be limited to one primary and one follow-up.
If you have further questions please reenter the queue so that others may also have the opportunity to participate.
And now I'll ask Clayton to come back on the line and explain how to submit your questions.
[Operator Instructions]  We'll go first to Brian Foran with Nomura.
How should we think about the earnings or the revenue net of provision impact from acquired assets keeps going up? Maybe what's the stock of accretion left to realize there? And how do you think about replacing that revenue over time? Is it more about growing the underlying base of loans? Or as this revenue starts to phase someday will expenses come down to offset it? How should we think about refilling that $245 million bucket over time? Brian this is Daryl.
We have about $2.3 billion of accretable yield that will come in on the life of asset.
I would say that our core margins as the debt has run down and things normalize we'll probably be still on the $370 million but that's probably a couple of years off.
I think we will continue to benefit through our diversification strategy and loan growth on the asset side as well as on the funding side.
We have positive mix changes occurring on both sides as we -- or grow both sides of the balance sheet.
Brian this is Clarke.
I'd also mentioned to you we have over 200 people specifically dedicated to managing these assets.
So a good bit of that cost is variable.
It will come down as the accretion burns through.
And then just a follow-up.
I apologize if I  missed this during the prepared remarks but securities portfolio $8.3 billion moved to held to maturity.
Can you just tell us what's going on there? Yes Brian.
We moved basically our floating rate securities into held to maturity.
Right now these are basically LIBOR plus 100- to 130-type spread and they float with LIBOR.
They do have interest rate caps on them in a 6% to 7% range.
If rates were to take off and go up really high and get capped out in that 6% and 7% range they will extend out and be more underwater.
So by putting them in held to maturity which we have the ability to do that it basically reduces any Basel III capital hit that we will have going forward.
So it's a good earning asset.
We can hold onto it now.
There's no credit risk to it.
And if rates were to go up we only get capped out of pretty high levels and we don't really have any capital hit for Basel III.
We'll go next to Todd Hagerman with Sterne Agee.
Daryl I guess just a question on the M&amp;A side.
Obviously I think the last couple of weeks there's been an increasing amount of chatter so to speak in terms of potential deal activity out there.
And It seems as if the opportunities for BB&amp;T continue to increase.
Can you just talk about I guess from 1 standpoint how you guys are viewing the M&amp;A landscape right now? How are you thinking about the discipline surrounding some of these potential opportunities and how that kind of dovetails into your capital plan that you spend with the fed? Todd this is Kelly.
So you're right.
There's kind of like the all-time high amount of --  I'm not sure I think chatter is the right word about mergers.
I do think that as we had been expecting a lot of companies all beginning to look forward and see that while the economy is going to grow some are growing at a relatively slow pace.
There are lots of headwinds in terms of fee incomes and lots of headwinds in terms of scale-related cost.
And so I think a number of institutions are beginning to think about the wisdom of remaining independent versus combining and being a part of a larger or high-quality organization.
So as we have said we are -- consider potential mergers as an important part of our future.
It's certainly not the most important the most important part is organic growth because we're in great markets and make great investments in those markets.
But it will be important.
We think about mergers as having to meet 3 very strict criteria: They had to be strategically effective and that can be a combination of scale that helps them strategically with regard to levering cost and/or entering and of course expanding attractive markets.
The second is we have to be able to ring-fence the quality issues.
We're not going to do a merger that increases our risk so through marks and other strategies we would have to be able to manage that risk.
And then third is it only has to turn into meaningful accretion for our shareholders.
We're simply not interested in mergers here for merger's sake.
We're about the business to grow shareholder value.
And then looks like mergers that make sense have to be meaningfully accretive.
So we screen them through those criteria.
We look at the opportunities that are available and make decisions accordingly.
And if I may just -- if you could just expand in terms of the capital consideration how that would fit in there? In other words with some of these opportunities out there -- and you talked about ring-fencing the quality issue so to speak how does that kind of play in to the capital consideration the potential perhaps that you may have to raise additional capital if it fits into some of those other buckets? Well obviously as you know with deals today you do take a meaningful mark depending on the quality of the portfolio as opposed to deal.
And then depending on the equity structure of the acquisition target and depending on our equity structure the combination of those 3 factors determine whether or not we need to raise capital.
We are very capital strong and so we do have some opportunity there.
And so we would just have to look at the target and the quality of the asset and the required mark to determine whether or not there would be any required capital raise.
If however there was required capital raise we think that would be reasonable and very doable because we only do one that met our criteria which means to potential investors it would be strategically attractive managed asset quality and very accretive.
So we think raising capital if required would be a very attractive opportunity.
We'll go next to Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Thanks.
Daryl just looking at the loan balances the averages were pretty similar to the period end.
And I'm just wondering as you look ahead can you talk a little bit about -- more specifically what areas of the loan bucket do you expect to grow? And also how much more CRE decline do you think we can see over the course of the next year -- next few years? Sure.
So for the loan growth I think you're going to see it continue to grow C&amp;I.
That's going to be a large increase for us.
Our Sales Finance will probably pick up more momentum at the beginning of the in the second and third quarters seasonally.
I think they're performing very strongly.
Our mortgage loans as we continue to maintain in portfolio 10- and 15-year mortgages that will grow.
And then in specialized that will turn this quarter and be positive.
Within there we have 2 growth that will pick up the seasonal benefit in premium finance as well as Sheffield.
Sheffield had some strategic relationships with Polaris and Suzuki and we think they're going to be growing very fast.
As far as runoff of the portfolio we would expect the covered portfolio to continue to come down at its phase that it's been happening.
And then the ADC portfolio will continue to come down but probably at slower paces than what we've seen in the last couple quarters.
We're seeing good signs.
We're -- possibly our direct retail lending stops shrinking maybe in the next quarter or 2 and maybe stabilizes which will be a very positive sign for us.
Okay.
And then my follow-up -- this is just a clarification.
But when you guys talk about average loan growth in the 3% to 5% range are you talking about that also inclusive of both covered loans and held for sale or is that directly core? We're talking about total loans held for investment.
So we are factoring in the runoff on covered as well as ADC.
So on our slide page it's that line item that shows 1% growth this quarter on a linked-quarter basis.
The next Craig Siegenthaler with Crédit Suisse.
Thanks.
Just a question for Clarke in his comments related to the opportunity for BB&amp;T to accelerate problem asset disposition in the second half.
I'm just wondering if this deceleration did occur could this lift total flows above guidance? And what I mean is if you break apart kind of core flow trends and then also the flows associated with an asset disposition acceleration could that go above guidance or is your guidance for total flows including any potential asset disposition? Our guidance is around losses anticipates continued asset disposition not necessarily a number of additional large bulk sale transfers.
So the existing charge-off guidance and guidance on NPA reductions are seeing some more -- I guess some more normalized effort to do the problem resolution.
And so we haven't really factored in any additional enhancements to that right now.
And Clarke you don't expect to do any kind of bulk transfers to held for sale this year.
I think you said that earlier.
Was that -- can you just refine this comment? Oh yes.
I guess what we're trying to say a couple of quarters ago as you know we made a strategic decision to move a big block of nonperforming residential mortgages.
I think it was second quarter of last year about $500 million and then we moved about $1.3 billion or so of nonperforming commercial loans and that was our big strategic move to a held-for-sale strategy to accelerate the dispositions.
What we're saying now is that we don't have any specific plans to consider large bulk transfers at this time.
However we'll continue to watch the market.
We'll look at the trends in our portfolio.
And if we think it makes sense to consider a large sale from time to time we would consider it but it's got to be economically more attractive than holding those assets and continue to service those.
We're next to  Matthew O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
My first question is for Daryl.
If you could just give maybe a little more detail on that $0.60 to $0.65 of earnings leverage over time? Maybe split it between expenses and revenues and just some thoughts on the path to that in terms of timing.
Okay.
So the first part the $700 million.
All we really did is look at the drag on the nonperforming assets and we think that's worth about $130 million pretax.
Then on the expense side within foreclosed property we think that as our OREO balances declined to -- let's just say they go down to about $500 million that should basically reduce the write-downs about $350 million and then our maintenance cost will come down proportionately and that's another $100 million.
And then you're looking at other expenses.
And other expenses would be personnel as we have higher FTE and our workout groups and loan sale groups and all throughout there as well as legal professional and all those items.
We think that's worth $120 million to $130 million easily.
These are very conservative estimates and does not -- we don't count any release or any lower provisions.
So we're just trying to look at what happens to the efficiency ratio as these credit costs come down and things start to normalized.
We have a lot of leverage here.
And thoughts on the timing of that $700 million coming back into earnings? It's going to come down proportionately as our NPAs come down.
So as your NPAs continue to come down every quarter you're going to see these expenses start to reduce every quarter.
So it's probably over the next year or 2.
Okay.
And actually the NPA is a good segue into a question for Clarke.
As we think about the outlook for credit the pace of decline in NPAs do you think it could accelerate from here or what would be your expectation on that? Well we don't overpromise but we think it will be steady decline.
Frankly I think it should be higher than what you saw this quarter.
Inflows were still elevated but down from Q4.
We think the key there is to see those inflows get more in the commercial side more in $500 million range.
They were still about $700 million this quarter.
So as those commercial inflows move down we clearly should see an increase in the pace of reduction each quarter.
And frankly that would be our expectation.
We'll go next to John Pancari with Evercore Partners.
Now Daryl can you give us some color in terms of the seasonality that you saw in service charges this quarter and how that could impact next quarter?  And I guess more specifically what would give you as a pretty good run rate going forward for that line? There's a lot of moving parts there.
I mean we came down this quarter with a seasonality as well as Reg E impacts that we're seeing.
We are forecasting service charges to be up in the second quarter and continuing to be up.
We have a wildcard with Durbin in there and all that.
But we would say that our service charges would be up in the magnitude of approximately $15 million to $20 million on a linked-quarter basis.
We have a couple of more processing days and as we roll out Bright Banking -- Bright Banking started on earlier this month but it rolls out to our existing customers later in the quarter.
So it's really an offer to our newer customers in the first couple of months.
So that impact really goes into more of the second half of the year.
Okay.
Then my follow-up is for Clarke.
I'm sorry if you have alluded to this at all yet.
But the longer-term outlook for the loan loss reserve just want to get your thoughts -- I mean since you're around 273 basis points of loans and as you mentioned that you expect to continue declines in NPAs and credit costs can you talk to us about what you view is a more normalized level as you see the improvement materialize? Absolutely.
We've had a number of discussions about that.
Just some of the things that we think about is what longer-term mix of assets we have in our portfolio.
To Kelly's point we're trying to move toward a more diversified less volatile more capital-efficient mix and loan book.
And we think as we accomplish that strategy that we would anticipate at this point that view of normalized losses probably in the 60 to 80 basis points annually which is obviously materially less than today.
And while we continue to look at the potential new guidance around allowance methodology and the impacts that would have just based on what we know today and our view of the potential change in asset mix in loss performance we would think about maybe 2x the normalize loss rates.
So you maybe -- think about 150 basis points or so.
And again that could change as we have more information and more visibility.
But that would be our best guess today.
We'll go next to Chris Mutascio with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> My first question for Clarke.
Clarke I tend to look at the nonaccrual loans held for investment on a quarter-to-quarter basis versus total NPAs because it washes out the inflows and outflows from the held-for-sale portfolio.
And when I'm looking -- when I look on Page 13 of your release it looks like the nonaccrual loans held for investment the actually pace of those is actually increasing.
The nonaccruals are up $278 million this quarter versus an increase in fourth quarter of $176 million.
So can you help bridge the gap between the improvement we're seeing in several different trend items for credit quality versus the actual increase in nonaccrual loans held for investment? Absolutely.
It's a fair question.
We look at both segments and we look at the total.
So both are important to us and so obviously we did have an increase this quarter on a linked basis into held for investment.
And we provided you a little more detail if you'll notice in the tables.
We've broken out the commercial into the 3 key buckets the way we manage it: C&amp;I other CRE and ADC.
So we did have an increase in nonaccruals held for investment this quarter.
But our total did come down obviously.
We do look at both buckets and the efforts to resolve credits  and get the balances out whether it's through held-for-sale bucket or held-for-investment bucket is just as intense.
What I think you're seeing in the held for investment this quarter is really our efforts to more aggressively push through the watch list.
I mentioned earlier our watch list is not going up.
We're not seeing nearly as many new credits being identified.
We know where our problems are so we're pushing harder to get the credits out.
So what I think you're seeing and what we believe is that you're seeing us move those watch list credits we previously identified and in many cases to resolve and will go ahead and put it on nonaccrual and seek liquidation strategy.
And I feel good about that because you can see the early indicators coming down materially.
So our expectation is that you should start seeing steady declines in the held-for-investment side each quarter as we move ahead.
And Chris just a point of clarification.
As you know our long-term strategy is to be very relationship-focused to work very hard with our clients to go through difficult times.
But in reality this correction's lasted longer than anybody expected particularly in the real estate area.
And so we frankly have hit an inflection point where we've held on and worked with the clients as long as we can.
And so now it's time to turn the attention to our shareholder.
And as Clarke said therefore these long-standing identified credits that we've been working with we are now into a disposition phase for those and that's what's causing you to see a bump up in the held for sale -- on a held for investment because we just decided to go ahead and put them on a liquidation status.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Thank you for the color.
And my follow-up Daryl when does the tax rate normalize? And at what level does it normalize at? I would say our tax rates will continue to go up year-over-year.
I would guess probably 2013 would be more of a normalized level.
And at that point based upon the amount of tax exempt income we have tax credits that we're investing in probably in the low 30s would probably be a normal tax rate for us would be my guess right now.
We'll go next to Greg Ketron with Citi.
Just a couple of questions.
One Clarke probably for you.
In terms of the loss on the disposition of property.
It looks like about $86 million this quarter versus $74 million last quarter.
You disposed $500 million.
It looks like a 17% mark.
Overall it's been running about 50% 51% which is where you have the remaining disposition marked.
Would you anticipate this quarter that we could see a pretty sizable drop in those losses? Absolutely.
What we didn't tell you yet if you look -- you're exactly right.
The program today our marks been about 50%.
This quarter we did have a larger strategic sale ahead a higher mark.
And so that's what reflected this quarter.
The remaining inventory is much smaller and our plan right now would be a more one-by-one asset disposition to in-market buyers.
And our experience for that kind of strategy has been a much lower marks.
So we would anticipate it coming down.
Okay Thank you.
Then the other question is on insurance.
Do you have any sense or color yet to: One on what kind of insurance revenue increases we may see going forward in light of the global events; and then two is there a reset period where the premiums are reset like July 1 or later this year? Yes.
Greg this is Kelly.
We clearly think the global events along with the fact that we've been in a protracted soft market are lining up to begin to harden the market.
We're beginning to see that in some cases.
So we think we'll see a general hardening over the next while.
And in terms of the other factors that drive revenue or just to secure new business -- and we continue to add small agencies added McGriff and CRC wholesale businesses continue to do well relative to the market.
And so I think the combination of those will likely put upward pressure on insurance revenues over the next several quarters.
We'll go next to Mike Mayo with CLSA.
I just wanted to understand more about the expansion in national corporate banking.
When you say that do you mean syndicated loans or some other areas? So there is some of that growth in syndicated.
We've been -- we're more willing to look at syndicated participations with syndicate partners.
We as I indicated are much more successful now in being the lead syndicator.
So the syndication business is improving.
Now I would point out that we don't give just buy blind participations in syndications like some companies do.
We underwrite the credit specifically ourselves.
We only do syndications where we can have a relationship with the client and get other collateral benefits.
And so we do not actively participate in a levered sponsored area.
So that's a higher risk than our appetite.
And then a lot of the corporate market improvement is in just our pure regional banking.
And our capital market's corporate banking calling officer is calling directly owned clients where there's not a syndication.
But we're just being a part of their small groups.
So they might have 2 banks and I just want a fair bank.
It's not a true syndication it's just that we're part of their bank group.
Since you -- everyone has some hold level.
So what percent of the increase in commercial loans say from the fourth quarter relates to these syndicated loans? Clarke do you want to take that? I'd say it's a fairly substantial portion.
I would remind you all we're very conservative on our client level holds and risk grade limits.
And so we don't have a different level of hold limit for these credits as we would any commercial loan in our original markets.
And so the granularity in this portfolio still very attractive and very low -- very low loan sizes relative to the rest of our portfolio.
But I would say that it's becoming a larger portion of our quarterly production.
Going next to Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> Just kind of a follow-up I guess on the nonperforming loan increase this quarter.
I'm just curious.
It sounds like your guidance despite what happened quarter-over-quarter in the first quarter is that NPL and NPA balances will go down.
And I'm sorry if I missed this on your prepared remarks but I just want to make sure that you're guiding or at least providing an outlook for NPA formation that is below what we've seen in the past couple of quarters? Matt you're exactly right.
That's our guidance.
That inflows to new nonaccruals would be down sequentially as we move forward each quarter and that loans held for investment in nonaccruals would go down steadily.
So we are expecting to see lower levels as we progress forward.
LLC</strong> Great.
Thank you.
And for my follow-up maybe a question to Kelly.
It sounds like from your comments earlier to a question that your M&amp;A criteria really hasn't changed in terms of needing to be GAAP-accretive in the first year excluding merger charges.
But I'm just curious as to whether or not your tangible book value dilution tolerance has changed at all relative to what's going on in the market? No our criteria you're right has not changed.
We focus mostly on accretion of EPS.
We think that is the primary driver.
Frankly most of the deals won't have any material book value dilution.
You could see some tangible dilution because of the marks.
And so -- but the primary criteria is on controlling the quality of the asset and the -- of asset quality and the earnings accretion.
We'll go next to Christopher Marinac with FIG Partners.
LLC</strong> Thanks.
Kelly is there a [indiscernible] the next 12 months that nothing happened on M&amp;A and it's just organic for BB&amp;T? Chris I don't think that's likely.
I think it's most likely there will be some M&amp;A activity to be honest.
There's a lot of -- I'd say there's a material increase in interest in M&amp;A activity.
So in terms of the likelihood BB&amp;T have in discussions I think that's very high.
In terms of us doing deals it's a little hard of me to judge because I'm going to control half of the discussion.
But we will be eagerly talking to candidates that to meet our criteria.
There seems to be today some potential acquirers that don't have our same criteria that is they're willing to take substantial and sometimes permanent dilution.
We won't be a part of it those transactions.
And so all of that having been said I think if I had to guess I would guess we would do some deals this year not a lot.
We're not interested with a bunch of small ones.
You could see us maybe do 1 or 2 of decent size.
But if it's so they will be the kind of deals that you'd be very happy to see us announce.
LLC</strong> Very well.
Kelly thank you.
Okay.
We'll go next to Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
I know there's been a lot of questions on NPLs.
I just have 1 tweak to those -- those question flow.
You talked about commercial inflows reflecting the aggressive efforts to resolve d existing watch list accounts.
Can you talk about how the watch list is progressing and how far through that kind of repositioning you think you're through now? Great question Betsy.
We feel very good about our repositioning of the portfolio.
We said before we think rightsizing the ADC loan term is probably something in the $2 billion to $3 billion range.
We're already at $3 billion but obviously the housing market is still tough.
So we probably will have to come down more to find the bottom and make it back up.
So we're real close there.
On the other CRE we think that there are attractive future opportunities there.
So we don't think we're going to consciously try to run down that portfolio anymore.
So we think it'll be -- see some growth with some potential -- with strong underwriting.
So from a portfolio repositioning standpoint we think we're in really good shape.
So the big growth is going -- will occur in the C&amp;I side.
So what we're doing back to the watch list is trying to identify particularly in the ADC and CRE area where we think those stressed credits are that need to go ahead and be resolved.
And we think we're materially through it.
The watch list continues to come down each quarter now we're just not identifying meaning new problems.
So we're at this point of the cycle where we're just substantially moving towards our liquidation.
So I would say the majority of the credits have been identified now we're in the liquidation mode.
So as we look at the slide on Page 10 you got the chart on inflows to nonaccrual assets.
As we think to 2Q 3Q that commercial inflow you're participating will be coming down at a faster rate of change than has been the case over the last quarter? We think so.
Obviously we could be wrong.
But we would anticipate you would start seeing a sharper decline in the level of nonaccruals in those areas as we pull through more of this watch list.
We'll go next to Chris Gamaitoni with Compass Point.
Thanks.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Just two clarifications.
When you said you are more willing to kind of recognize losses and stop working with clients on real estate loans did you mean commercial or residential of those? Well we're really talking about both there.
We treat both kinds of loans as the same.
Again we -- I'd work with them as long as we possibly can but then there's a form of inflection where you've done all you can do in which case you have to execute on liquidation.
And so it covers both categories.
Okay.
Sure.
And then just on the M&amp;A side.
You've made a comment that there'll be one of two of decent size.
I don't want to pin you down exactly but could you give me a range of what decent size means? I'd be a little hesitant try to nail down specifics.
But I've said in the past that we're just really not interested in anything less than $3 billion or $4 billion dollars.
I mean it's not that you could see some kind of a assisted deal below that or something.
But I think you can generally think when we're thinking about target deals that would certainly be greater than $3 billion or $4 billion.
We'll go next to Gerard Cassidy with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
Daryl can you give us an idea of what you're hearing on when the regulators might come out with their guidelines on where the capital ratios need to be on this steady [ph] buffer? And also do you think that the federal reserves and Basel would be wrapped up by the end of this year? Sure Gerard.
We've had discussions with the regulators throughout the last several quarters.
My best guess to answer your latter question first is probably we're hearing maybe late third quarter we might get a new NPR for Basel III for U.S.
banks.
They pushed it back a little bit.
They're working really hard trying to come up with the new rules and regulations.
And they're actually taking a lot of feedbacks from banks like us and peers just trying to understand what the impacts are.
So I think they're doing as good a job as they can to come up with some really good rules when it is announced.
And as far as the buffer I don't really know how much.
Obviously the larger institutions like JPMorgan would probably have much higher buffers than an institution like BB&amp;T.
The magnitude of that is really hard to say right now Gerard.
I just don't want to stick my neck out on there.
That's really in the hands of the fed and the other regulators right now.
LLC</strong> And then finally on the NPL formation when you guys look at it it's been trending down which obviously is positive.
Is there a possibility that we could see eventually just gap down where it's a -- instead of being just down $100 million or $200 million it drops $400 million to $500 million.
Is there anything like that that could happen in the next 2 or 3 quarters on that formation? I think our best estimate is a steady sequential decline versus any sort of sharp movement given what we see.
We'll take our last question today from Jefferson Harralson with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Thanks.
Mine's been asked.
Thanks.
I appreciate it.
If there are no other questions in queue.
I'll turn it back over to Tamera for closing remarks.
Thank you everyone for your questions today.
We appreciate your participation in today's conference call.
And if you need any clarification on any of the information presented today please call Alan [Alan Greer] or myself.
Have a great day everybody.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the BB&amp;T Corporation Second Quarter Earnings 2011 Conference Call on Thursday July 21 2011.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Ms.
Tamera Gjesdal Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for BB&amp;T corporation.
Thank you.
You may begin Tamera.
Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
And thanks to all of our listeners for joining us today.
This call is being broadcast on the Internet from our website at bbt.com.
We have with us today Kelly King our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Daryl Bible our Chief Financial Officer; and Clarke Starnes our Chief Risk Officer who will review the results for the second quarter of 2011 as well as provide a look ahead.
We will be referencing a slide presentation during our remarks today.
A copy of this presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental financial information are available on the BB&amp;T website.
After Kelly Daryl and Clarke have made their remarks we'll pause to have Kelly come back on the line and explain how those who have dialed in this call may participate in the Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin let me remind you BB&amp;T does not provide public earnings predictions or forecasts.
However there may be statements made during the course of this call that express management's intentions beliefs or expectations.
BB&amp;T's actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to be materially different is contained on Slide 2 of our presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
Our presentation includes certain non-GAAP disclosures.
Please refer to Page 2 and the appendix of our presentation for the appropriate reconciliations to GAAP.
And now it is my pleasure to introduce our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Kelly King.
Thank you Tamera and good morning everybody and thanks for your interest in BB&amp;T.
We're excited about presenting our results to you today.
In fact we believe this is our best overall quarter in 2 years.
And you'll see that as we go through the various parts.
So starting out with a focus on earnings we did have net income available to shareholders that was $307 million a 46.2% increase in net income versus the second quarter 2010.
EPS was $0.44 up 46.7%.
And it was really the strongest EPS number we've had since first quarter of '09.
There were many very positive aspects to the quarter but obviously a significant amount of the improvement we'll call it improvement credit quality which we'll talk about.
Our revenues totaled about $2.2 billion up 28% on an annualized basis in the second quarter.
That was largely driven by lower deposit cost strong insurance as you recall last second quarter was a really strong insurance quarter for us and lower losses on sale of our problem assets.
And also for the last really 1.5 years we've continued to have revenue producers and that's helping drive our revenue production.
In the credit quality areas a really really good quarter significant progress in credit quality improvement.
OREO NPLs performing TDRs delinquent loans NPL inflows watch list loans and core charge-offs all declined really great.
NPA decreased 13.2% and importantly NPA inflows decreased 24.9%.
Clarke is going to give you a lot of color on that in just a bit.
In the loan area our average loan growth was 3.4% versus first quarter and that does exclude our runoff portfolios in ADC and our covered portfolio.
They're still solid in this relatively slow environment.
The growth was pretty broad-based.
It was led by growth in specialized lending Sales Finance C&amp;I and mortgage and we'll give you a little more detail on that.
In the deposit area we had average non-interest bearing DDA increased $1.2 billion or 22%.
Average client deposits increased $1.8 billion or 7.1% and average client deposit excluding CDs increased $2.5 billion or 12.3%.
So overall solid performance in earnings revenues credit quality loans and deposits.
Let's go to Slide 4.
Give you a little more detail on some of our key areas relative to our revenue strategies.
Importantly our community bank model continues to produce the best value proposition in the market we know that based on direct client feedback but also based on statistical feedback we get from independent outside research firms.
We have the best quality offering of any of our major competitors in our marketplace.
And we've made excellent progress through the community bank and diversification strategies on the loan and the liability side.
So if you look at some of the lending points our second quarter new production mix was 85% C&amp;I versus 15% CRE.
That again is focused on the diversification strategy.
Our new C&amp;I production was up an annualized 10% compared to the first quarter and June was our second best production since 2009.
So it was really strong.
And we finally had a turn in direct retail while it did drop [ph] on average the point-to-point growth second versus first was 2% annualized point-to-point.
And that's after 11 quarters of run-offs.
So that's an important inflation point because we've had good steady production it's just we've had some strong run-offs in some of the areas we wanted to run off and now that it's turned it's almost mathematically certain to continue to grow at an increasing rate as before.
So we feel good about that.
In the deposit area as you know we and most others are going through some pretty material structural changes in the deposit line up because of the recent regulatory changes.
We have now successfully rolled out our Bright Banking package which is our basic replacement for free checking it's going very very well.
We continue to have significant growth in non-interest bearing deposits as I mentioned.
So our strategies are moving away from free checking into our new Bright Banking products and moving away from a more price-sensitive CDs and into more DDA and transaction accounts it's really working very very well.
A number of the investments that we've made in our niche lending businesses are -- continue to pay off for us.
You'll recall that over the last really 5 or 6 years we invested heavily in those areas and in all of those areas they're producing really good results which is why I'll show you in a moment our specialized lending increase was very significant in this environment.
On the fee side our Trust and Investment Advisory business is doing well income increased 15.4% compared to the second quarter of '10.
That's really a function of better markets and better execution and a lot of that execution is coming out of our Wealth division where we've been focusing intensely on for the last few years and really beginning to be fruitful now where our revenue in Wealth increased 11.8% compared to second quarter of '10.
So that business is working well and we continue to add revenue produces in the wealth area because we have a lot of fertile opportunities out there.
I want to spend just a minute on our corporate banking area and be sure that number one you realize it's a major focus for us but also I want to be clear about what it is we do.
At the first quarter call I think we have a little bit of confusion about what it is we are doing here.
So let's be clear.
What we are doing is participating in what the market considers to be the middle market.
And sometimes you will hear us say large corporate because for us large is small or middle of the middle market in terms that the market recognizes so we really haven't changed in terms of the kinds of companies we're focusing on.
It's just we've broadened our focus.
So our focus remains on middle market.
It remains relationship based.
We're only doing businesses where we go out and call on the clients we're calling the CFOs we're calling the CEOs we're in their offices.
We're not out buying just syndicated charges syndicated packages.
In fact to give you a feel for this our target is -- in terms of revenue size is for public companies with $250 plus million in revenue private companies $500 million plus.
And really total borrowings for $500 million or less.
So you can see that the really big companies that a lot of the very large national players are dealing with is just not our market.
So we're focused on that solid middle-market group which is where we have a great interest and a great specialty.
Now the reason we're having such good results is because we've broadened our markets we discussed some great new markets that we are underserved in Texas Alabama Florida.
And we really view this strategy as a national footprint.
So our bankers are out developing relationships that meet our target criteria across the country and we that have particularly unique opportunities in Texas Alabama et cetera where we recently had some expansion.
Also we've expanded some of our vertical concentrations energy is one that we recently added that we're focusing a lot of attention on and getting phenomenal results.
We're really only focusing those areas where we have expertise where we have research expertise and staff expertise so that when we're calling on these clients we're not only in their offices we know something about the business and we know about their industries.
I want to re-emphasize that our underwriting standards have not changed.
They are conservative and are focused on the same principles that we have had for a long long time.
Given that we are having good results.
I would point out that our shared national credits gets a lot of focus.
Part of this is for us is international credits as you know that's basically just where multiple companies are doing -- bank companies are doing business with one company.
That doesn't inherently make it suddenly get accredited it just means multiple companies are in there doing their banking.
We do have a Shared National Credit portfolio it's growing modestly but the outstanding balance is $3.1 billion so it's not like a massive part of our portfolio.
The broader issue this broad middle-market corporate banking focus important though it is growing our end of period balance has increased it's up 11.5% compared to first quarter.
So we're getting good leverage there and getting the kind of credits that we're trying to focus on.
One final point on the quality issue I just want to emphasize we are board leverage sponsored lending we have strict hold limits we've not changed those.
And so we're not stretching the parameters in terms of the risk factors in terms of how we approach this.
We simply have expanded the market territory and the focus of having frankly more bankers on the street looking for the business.
So turn with me now if you're following on Slide 5.
Just a little bit more detail on loan growth.
Like in past quarters you'll see that our absolute total loan growth on a second quarter annualized basis is modest 0.6%.
But remember we have a really big-time runoff in our ADC portfolio 42.5% decline and a modest runoff in our covered portfolio 20.5%.
So if you exclude those our normal kind of focus portfolio grew 3.4% on an annualized basis.
C&amp;I was 2.6%.
Sales Finance which is doing great quality is phenomenal the yields are good 5.9% residential mortgage 8.6% and specialized lending as I indicated earlier did really well growing 11.9%.
So this lending strategy is working exactly the way we want going 2/3 of our total net loan growth in non real estate.
Our loan yields are holding up nicely there's a lot of competition in the market no question but our loan yields decreased only 3 basis points versus the first quarter.
So our folks are doing a nice job in terms of holding up our yields.
Our growth did gain momentum here in the quarter for example our end of period loans were up $810 million annualized 3.2% and if you isolate in on C&amp;I which is our primary thrust the end of period or point-to-point was up $579 million or 6.9%.
So what you can see is that as we move through the second quarter we started gaining momentum.
Now if you recall in the first quarter it started out really strong coming out of the strong end of the fourth quarter but it started slowing a little into the first quarter as we went through this little soft patch.
Now we're seeing that while it's still uncertain in the marketplace to be sure our volume started really building as we headed towards the second quarter end of the second quarter.
A lot of that frankly is where we're removing market share and really where we are being allowed to have relationship with companies that have lost other relationships with banking companies that have gone out of business or merged away and we as a top 10 player are a very good candidate to be a part of their banking group.
And so we're having really good success in those and a reason to be optimistic as we head into the corporate lending area.
So if you turn with me to Slide 6 just a couple of comments in the deposit area.
I would say mostly our strategy of diversification is about as close to excellent execution as I can imagine.
DDA is up 22.2% interest checking up 67%.
Our CDs as in previous 2 3 quarters are down 12.8% that was by design recall our strategy there is to move out some of those more expensive single service CDs because number one they're expensive; number two frankly we don't need excess funding today and so buying expensive single service CDs makes no sense.
So we've not been doing that.
So total client deposits are up 7.1% which is very good.
Our average client deposits excluding CDs increased $2.5 billion or 12.3% on an annualized quarter basis.
Interest-bearing deposit cost did decline to 0.72% compared to 0.82% in the first quarter.
So we're getting the diversification we want in the areas we want it in and that's helping us get diversified and bring our costs down at the same time which of course is our strategy but it's pleasing to see that we're able to make it work.
And I would say that looking forward we expect to see continued strong deposit growth in the second half of the year which will allow us to continue to keep an appropriate amount of downward pressure on cost which will help support our improving margin.
So now let me turn to Clarke and let him give you a good bit more detail and color with regard to the credit quality year.
Clarke? Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
I'm very pleased to share continued improvement and positive trends in our credit performance for the second quarter.
We're particularly pleased that the pace of credit improvement accelerated meaningfully this quarter.
As Kelly indicated earlier the credit improvement was broad-based reflected by linked-quarter improvement in all key credit performance measures from early stage indicators to NPAs and core losses.
This performance reflects the third consecutive linked-quarter improvement in each credit indicator and is consistent with our previous guidance and expectations to more aggressively resolve problem credits and move through the last stage of this challenging credit cycle.
These results are summarized on Slide 7.
While we have shown you a similar slide the last 2 quarters we are pleased to report greater decreases in many categories this quarter.
Results included lower levels of watch list credits delinquencies performing TDRs NPA inflows NPLs OREO total NPAs and core losses.
Given the successful and sustained execution of our problem asset resolution strategies over the last year we would expect continued improvements in our asset quality results as we move forward.
Over the next few slides I'll share some additional color and key drivers for these improving trends.
Slide 8 details a significant linked-quarter decrease in nonperforming assets.
Total NPAs were down 13.2% in the quarter with NPLs down 16.8% and OREO down 5.7%.
Total NPAs peaked 5 quarters ago and has steadily decreased with a cumulative reduction of approximately $1 billion.
Significant improvement in the inflows of new problem assets and continued strong execution of our asset disposition strategy drove these results.
We sold $675 million of problem assets in the quarter with average sales prices consistent with our targets.
Disposition of the loans totaled approximately $448 million which included retail mortgage of $271 million and commercial notes of $177 million as well as OREO sales of $227 million.
Total problem asset sales over the last 12 months have totaled $2.2 billion and the remaining commercial NPLs in the held-for-sale portfolio have been reduced to a level of only $116 million.
These strong disposition efforts have supported the material reduction in our nonperforming assets.
As we conclude this accelerated disposition strategy we feel very good about the execution.
Due to the successful disposition strategy and lower NPL inflows we now anticipate a more traditional but continued aggressive approach to problem asset workouts.
But with less reliance and larger bulk sale efforts.
Turning to Slide 9.
You can graphically see the 24.9% decrease in total NPA inflows.
This reduction was driven by a 24.9% decline in commercial NPA inflows and lower inflows in each of our reported lending segments.
This quarter's inflows were substantially below at 47% the levels we experienced in the second quarter last year.
As I mentioned on the call couple of quarters ago reducing quarterly commercial inflows to $500 million or below will allow us the opportunity for continued improvement in nonperforming assets without reliance on aggressive note sell efforts.
As we continue to work through our identified watch list accounts we would expect ongoing improvement in the inflows each quarter.
Talking about TDRs total performing TDRs decreased 10% this quarter including a 25% decrease in commercial TDRs.
As part of our asset disposition strategy we have been offering fewer modifications particularly in our commercial portfolio with the majority of our TDRs offered to our residential and consumer borrowers.
This is evidenced by the fact that in 2Q 30% of our performing TDRs were commercial versus 58% in the second quarter of 2010.
We still believe however that prudent modification efforts are appropriate for some of our borrowers and enhance our overall results.
This is supported by the fact that 76% of our TDRs are in a performing status and 90% of performing TDRs are in fact current.
Now let me comment on the new accounting guidance related to TDRs.
Based upon discussions with our accountants and regulators we really don't expect much impact on our results if any.
We believe the conservative approach to accounting for modifications we have previously taken is consistent with the new guidance.
On Slide 10 you will note that our total charge-offs for the quarter were 1.8% up from 1.65% last quarter.
However this amount does include $87 million in charge-offs which include loss on sale and allocated reserves for the mortgage sale we completed this quarter.
Excluding the mortgage sale core charge-offs were 1.46% down 11.6% compared to last quarter.
This core level of charge-offs reflects the lowest level in more than 2 years.
Our charge-off guidance last quarter was that we would break through 1.5% by the end of the year on the core basis we have obviously met this projection a couple of quarters early.
For the remainder of 2011 we expect total quarterly charge-offs at levels consistent with the core loss levels we experienced this quarter.
Due to the improved portfolio performance our provision expense decreased this quarter and came in at approximately 70% of total charge-offs.
However the provision was 78% of core charge-offs.
While our provision was down this quarter we actually improved our NPL coverage ratio to 114% excluding covered loans.
I would also point out that when you adjust for the impact of the small colonial impairment we had this quarter about $15 million and the specific reserves associated with the mortgage loan sale we had a reduction in our allowance of $78 million this quarter which is only modestly higher than the $64 million last quarter.
Continued improvement in our credit quality performance will likely allow for further reductions in provision expense and other credit-related costs in the second half of the year.
Finally looking at Slide 11 we also experienced a very strong reduction in early stage indicators.
Total watch list assets were down 9.5%.
Early-stage delinquencies 30 to 89 and 90 days past due buckets were down 11.7% to the lowest level in 3 years.
A 46.6% reduction in commercial delinquencies combined with better than anticipated seasonal results in the retail oriented portfolios drove this improvement.
As we've discussed numerous times during this credit cycle our primary credit issue has been the stress in the single family ADC portfolio.
As a result we have been working diligently to reduce the exposure in this segment.
I'm very pleased to report that we made excellent progress reducing balances $400 million including held for sale this quarter.
And additionally NPL inflows in this segment for the quarter were down 47% over first quarter.
With lower inflows and much reduced exposure we believe the remaining credit issues in this portfolio will be very manageable.
So in summary we're very pleased with faster pace of credit improvement this quarter.
Everything that we are seeing from a credit perspective is very positive and continues to move in the right direction.
The sustained execution of our asset disposition strategy coupled with clear improvements in early credit quality indicators including lower inflows supports our confidence in our credit direction which will remind you all we have significant earnings leverage due to the sizable credit infrastructure we have to build and these credit costs can clearly be reduced in the coming quarters.
Therefore we would expect further improved results and lower credit costs for the remainder of the year.
With that let me turn it over to Daryl.
Thank you Clarke and good morning everyone.
I'm going to discuss net interest margin fee income non-interest expense and capital.
Continuing on Slide 12.
Net interest margin for the quarter came in very strong at 4.15% up 14 basis points from the first quarter.
The margin continues to benefit from positive funding mix changes lower cost of funding and increased yield on covered loans and lower nonperforming assets compared to last quarter.
Specifically the 83 basis point decrease and the average cost of long term debt was the result of issuing new debt at favorable rates and repositioning of hedges which can then be amortized over the expected life of the instrument.
When you adjust for nonperforming assets and interest reversals to a more normalized level net interest margin would be about 9 basis points higher.
Net interest income on covered assets increased $19 million compared with last quarter.
Adjusting for additional provision of $15 million on covered loans and an increase in the FDA fee loss share expense net revenues decreased $19 million for covered assets.
With regard to margin expectations we expect the margin to decrease to a range of about 4.05% to 4.10% for the remainder of 2011.
This is driven by lower yields on loans a less favorable asset mix and a slightly higher cost of long-term debt.
However margin continues to benefit from positive funding mix and falling costs of interest-bearing deposits.
Also you can see on the graph on Slide 12 we remain asset sensitive and are positioned for rising rates.
Additionally given the uncertainty of the rate environment we also positioned ourselves to benefit should rates decrease 25 basis points.
Turning to Slide 13.
Our fee income ratio increased to 40.8% in the second quarter from 40.1% in the first quarter.
The increase was driven by higher insurance income service charges on deposits check card fees bankcard fees and merchant discounts.
As expected insurance income is usually strongest in the second and fourth quarters.
Additionally insurance market is showing some signs of improvement due to better economic conditions.
Service charges on deposits increased $10 million or 29.7% annualized linked-quarter primarily due to the rollout of Bright Banking and other new service offerings at the beginning of the quarter.
As a reminder BB&amp;T Bright Banking replaced free checking and as Kelly said the rollout has been very successful.
Both check card and bank card fees remained strong due to increased activity and account penetration.
Mortgage banking income for the second quarter was $83 million compared to $95 million in the first quarter.
This decrease was primarily due to a 33% decline in application volume a lower net gain on MSR hedging and fewer sales and lower margins on production.
Trust and investment advisory income increased 18.7% annualized linked-quarter as market conditions improved.
FDIC loss share income offset increased $23 million as a result of the impact of cash flow reassessments which showed improving cash flows from covered assets.
In addition the balances at the end for accretable yield increased to $2.5 billion from $2.3 billion last quarter.
This is the result of decreased loss projections in the covered Loan portfolio.
The net loss on securities resulted in an $18 million in OTTI largely offset by gains on nonqualified pension assets.
Finally we are modifying our prior estimate for the impact of Durbin posting order change and Reg E.
We currently expect the total annual run rate impact of $395 million in lower revenues versus our prior estimate of $450 million.
To date we have identified offsets for about half of the impact to service charges and check card fees.
We are working on additional revenue generators to close the gap further.
As this process moves forward we will continue to introduce new product and service offerings for our clients.
On Slide 14 our efficiency ratio improved to 55.8% compared to 57.1% last quarter primarily due to increased revenues.
We also achieved positive operating leverage and expect this to continue for the second half of the year as non-interest expenses are expected to decline.
Personnel expense decreased $11 million or 6.4% mostly due to lower FICA and unemployment taxes.
FTE employees increased 252 this quarter but are essentially flat compared to the second quarter last year.
Our second quarter hires include revenue producers in Wealth Management capital markets electronic delivery and mortgage lending.
Professional services increased $13 million due to revenue producing business expenses and specialized lending specifically premium finance and small ticket equipment finance in addition to legal expenses increase due to the credit environment.
Other non-interest expenses increased $21 million largely due to litigation-related recovery in the first quarter of this year.
Finally the second quarter effective tax rate was 21.8% in line with our expectations.
Turning to Slide 15 our capital ratios continue to remain among the strongest in the industry.
Tier 1 common improved to 9.6% from 9.3% last quarter.
Tier 1 Capital is 12.3% compared to 12.1%.
Leverage capital is 9.5% compared to 9.3%.
Tangible common remained healthy at 7.2% and total capital at 16% compared to 15.8%.
Our internal capital generation continues to provide support for both organic and strategic opportunities.
Our current estimate of Tier 1 common under Basel III is 8.3% up substantially compared with last quarter.
We believe we will meet the Basel III requirements including the SIFI buffer once the regulators publish the U.S.
Capital rules.
In addition we are well ahead of our projected capital levels as presented in our annual plan.
This positions us with additional financial flexibility.
Let me reiterate Clarke's comments related to the new TDR accounting guidance.
We feel very confident that the accounting change will not have a significant impact on BB&amp;T and we feel certain that our TDRs will continue to decline as we move forward.
With that let me turn it back to Kelly for closing remarks and Q&amp;A.
Thank you Daryl.
So as you can see overall we had improvement in our credit trends and credit trends accelerated.
We had strong fundamentals across our business lines.
We are successfully accomplishing all of our strategies that we've set out many of which we set out 3 years ago.
And we continue to invest to drive revenue in loan growth and we're seeing that realized.
And we believe we are providing the best value proposition in our market which is ultimately the most important driver of long-term revenue and profitability.
So at the end of the day we believe our best days are ahead and look forward to demonstrating that over the next several quarters and now we'll stop and entertain your questions.
Thank you Kelly.
Before we move to the question-and-answer segment of the conference call I'll ask that we use the same process that we have in the past to get fair access to everyone.
[Operator Instructions] And now I'll ask Kelly to come back on the line and explain how to submit your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go ahead and take our first question from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
I just wanted to follow up on the growth in the commercial loans.
If you had 3 categories to give the reason to one reason would be there's a pickup in commercial loans generally the second category would be market share gains and the third category would be increased risk-taking.
Now how would you explain the commercial loan growth? And also I heard 11% growth versus the first quarter that was just the middle market loans that was not the shared national credits is that correct? Yes that's right.
Clearly the primary driver of ours will be market share movement no question about that.
The second would be to some degree some pickup in loan growth in general as the markets began to get a little more confident.
Although to be honest there's a lot of reservation out there because what what's going on in Washington and Europe et cetera.
And the third one increase in risk will be 0 in terms of impact on us.
And one follow up what is the loan utilization rate this quarter compared to last quarter? It's about 34% 35% and it's still kind of flat.
Okay.
So it's really market share expansion? That's right.
And we'll take our next question from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
I just want to drill down a bit on the funding side of the equation.
We're seeing some of the stronger banks be able to lower their funding costs.
We saw that from you guys both the deposit rates came down the long-term debt cost came down.
Maybe just a little more color in terms of what drove some of the decline in long-term debt specifically and just how much more opportunity there is to bring down the funding costs in total from here? I'll take part of that.
Daryl will cover the debt part.
As you can see from our numbers and really kind of from general industry numbers the industry is kind of flush with deposits right now because consumers aren't spending as much.
They are paying down debt and/or saving more savings rates are up pretty significantly.
Businesses are remaining very very cash flush and so save money it's letting in [ph] wouldn't be a particularly strong overstatement.
And so while you want to be fair to your clients it certainly gives us the opportunity to manage down our rates particularly when we have as I indicated earlier single service site clients.
So I think there is still opportunity.
Our projection is that at least for a while now and that's certainly is several quarters that most likely is that rates will be relatively flat.
There's just no energy in the market out there to cause the Fed or anybody else try to raise rates if anything if they could figure out how to lower them they probably would.
So I think there's a little bit opportunity to go down obviously we're pretty close to floor so it's not dramatic there.
We're down with on the deposit side and then Daryl can speak to the debt side.
So just to reiterate what Kelly said we expect our deposit costs to go down probably 3 or 5 basis points again this quarter.
On the long-term debt it's really a function of some new debt issuances we did and we swapped those and we also were able to unwind some hedges and able to amortize those gains over the estimated life.
So the combination of those 2 really had our long-term debt cost come down and that should stay down at that level maybe bounce up a little bit but it should stay relatively close to that level that we're at on a go-forward basis for the next couple of years.
Okay.
And then just as my follow up obviously there's been a lot of de-risking of the credit book the last few quarters here out of cost it's been offset with the revenue strength.
But as we're thinking about the asset sales and credit improvement going forward there are more bulk sales that you would expect and some related hits from that? Or is it more just kind of slugging through loan by loan at this point? This is Clarke.
I think the latter is the best description.
We don't anticipate any additional large transfers remind you all last year we transferred almost $1.9 billion in our strategy and we've got that notionally down to $230 million and now $116 million on a book basis and we're almost out so we feel very good about that.
So what we're transitioning to now is more of the single name credit by credit aggressive disposition strategy.
And included this quarter we did a good bit of that so we think within our current charge-off guidance and problem asset improvement guidance that we will be able to do those types of strategic liquidations without a big impact on losses and still have good credit improvement.
And we'll go to our next question from Todd Hagerman with Sterne Agee.
Clarke I just wanted to drill down a little further on the disposition strategy.
Just as I think about the level of OREO you're still carrying in excess of $1 billion.
The held for sale component came down just under $2 billion this quarter most of that through the commercial line.
But the question centers as you talk about this loan by loan kind of slugging it out over the remaining quarters if you will I'm just trying to think about how do I think about underlying credit qualities related to that held for sale bucket and that excessively large -- the proportionally the OREO category? How do I think about the credit quality trends and the pace of improvement going forward? Fair question Todd.
The way we think about it I mentioned for us mathematically we really needed to get new NPL inflows in the commercial side and down under $500 million.
If you just look through how we would reconcile through that our movements to OREO and how our loss taking and then what we would call resolutions those would be upgrades to accrual.
They will be short sales with our borrowers.
They would be strategic one-off sales or frankly asset sales or payments by the clients.
And so at a lower inflow number we can make all that work even with the levels we're carrying now and see what we think steady quarter-to-quarter decreases in the NPA levels without any significant impact on our loss guidance.
So it all comes down to reducing those inflows and we do have very active appetite still from the strategic investor community and with the borrowers contacts and for a number of these assets so we're able to work many times cooperatively with the borrower or sell the note ourselves without having to resort to a big bulk sale.
I hear what you're saying Clarke.
But as I think about it I mean should I think about just again that kind of pace of improvement and kind of the level of mortgage within those categories is it kind of a as we've seen here in the last couple of quarters kind of a mid- to high-single digit kind of a pace? Or can we look for something a little bit greater than that? Usually I think about it with the current economic outlook barring any significant shot from here and even with a slow economy what we would expect is a mid- to high-single digit improvement each quarter or more.
And so it's going to depend about how aggressive we are but we feel very comfortable we'll stay in that steady range.
We'll take our next question from Craig Siegenthaler with Crédit Suisse.
Just first on your longer term kind of NIM expectations here are you still kind of expecting a core NIM in the 3.70% to 3.80% range.
And I'm also wondering how did your underlying core NIM trend in the second quarter from the first quarter you back out colonial elevated NPAs and excess liquidity? So Craig if you look at long-term net interest margin we're still in the 3.70% 3.80% range that hasn't changed.
As far as the core margin goes our core margin did expand and it's mainly driven by the benefits that we saw on the right-hand side of the balance sheet both on deposits and long-term debt.
So it was up easily probably 10 of the 14 basis points on a core basis.
Got it.
And then when I look at Slide 13 on your expectations for Durbin Reg E and also order change if I just think about the run rate of revenues now and then I move in to the fourth quarter when Durbin begins what is the impact if you can give us annualized or on a quarterly basis just some Durbin and order change because really Reg E's are in the numbers now? Yes that's right.
So if you just look at our line item check card fees we would expect that to fall about $40 million from third to fourth quarter due to Durbin.
So that will be the impact from a quarter-over-quarter basis.
If you just look at the interchange you can annualize that.
That's probably about in the 150 range there's your seasonality on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
Keep in mind Craig that while we've made changes that's pretty substantially to cover all the issues that we had on the Reg E and the fee income and the NSF side we've not yet made any changes with regard to picking up or replacing them from the debit side.
We're evaluating like everybody else a lot of strategies.
We will be executing strategies to substantially replace that.
We're trying to be careful we just literally got the final ruling in the last couple of weeks.
So we'll be doing some testing.
We'll be doing some careful thinking about this.
Daryl's right we'll probably get that kind of change in the fourth because we're not going to rush out and make dramatic changes because this a very delicate thing because debit cards are now the majority of the payment system.
And so we have to do some testing with our clients figure out where the sensitivities are and where can we best recover our cost.
And make no mistake about it over a period of time we will recover this cost and recover revenues because it's too significant for us to just absorb.
And I think the market is going to figure out how to do it it may take a few quarters but we will figure it out.
And we'll go to our next question from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Just want to touch base on Slide 14 where you talk about the expense ratio.
You indicated positive operating leverage this quarter and that you think that's going to continue going forward could you just give us a sense of how you're thinking about that trajectory over the next several quarters given the puts and takes on things like Durbin as well as what you expect you can get to as a normalized "efficiency ratio"? So for the next quarter or two Betsy the way we're going to get positive operating leverage is when we get on the expense side of the income statement.
Our revenues we expect net interest income to be higher we expect fees to be down a little bit in the third quarter.
But our expenses will come down which will help drive the operating leverage.
We're still expecting when we talked last quarter our efficiency ratio to continue to trend down will probably be in the mid-50s the rest of this year but start to move down next year especially if this credit costs continue to decline.
And our target is still to get back historically we've been in the low 50s.
We believe our operating run rate can get us back to the low 50s.
We've got to really get through all that asset quality to come down to more normalized levels.
And Betsy just a little more color keep in mind that there's still embedded in our expense structure a kind of cost related to credit.
I mean legal costs and it's allocation of time of our officers that are devoted to credit resolution versus revenue and it's just on and on and on.
So that will slowly and steadily come down.
And also to be honest over the last couple of years we've invested a lot of money in building out our infrastructure to have stronger risk management systems and economic capital systems and so forth because as a top ten institution today and with Basel III around the corner we thought it was necessary to invest heavily in building out those systems so that we are first-class top 10 institution which we've largely done now.
So as those costs one the credit costs tend to go down as the infrastructure cost begins to moderate that begins to release some of the pressure on the efficiency ratio.
So the follow up is that you've got capacity internally to do more given the infrastructure investment you've done as well as on a capital perspective you indicated internal capital generation is high enough to support not only organic but also offering for strategic growth.
Could you just give us a sense as to your mind as what you're looking for as it relates to strategic opportunities? Yes so Betsy in terms of strategic opportunities that's obviously the more significant opportunity in terms of levering infrastructure cost.
It's kind of interesting the strategic margins the merger scenario I think is beginning to heat up probably about 1 year later than we all thought but it is beginning to accelerate.
We certainly plan to be aggressive with regard to looking at acquisition opportunities as we have.
But I always try to remind everybody that there's so much oversized emphasis on mergers that the number one focus for us is on organic growth.
We have such great markets and such great under-utilized strategies that we simply are going to make sure our number one focus is on organic.
Notwithstanding that however we will be looking at the various opportunities that are available.
As you know they're very unpredictable.
But when we approach those we will approach them as we have said and that is that they have to meet our 3 criteria.
Number one they have to be strategically attractive; number two we have to be able to bring the asset quality we're just not going to take on an institution with a bunch of asset quality that we can't control I mean we control it through the mark [ph] but of course it has great implications for your price; and then third is it has to be meaningfully attractive to our existing shareholders otherwise it makes no sense to us.
So as long as they meet those criteria we will pursue them and to the sense that they do not we will pass them.
We'll go to our next question from Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> I want to follow up I guess on another direction on Betsy's question in terms of the capital levels.
Obviously your capital levels are quite strong now particularly the Basel III Tier 1 common ratio being above 8%.
Your dividend payout ratio now however is above 30%.
So how are you thinking about potentially increasing if you do buybacks in an environment where you continue to exercise the discipline that you've shown already in terms of acquisitions? Matt this is Daryl.
What I would tell you is that we target our dividend payout ratio to be between 30% and 50%.
I would expect that to stay in the probably lower half of that range going forward.
As our earnings continue to improve I would expect our dividend to improve proportionately to that.
And as far as buyback goes we really do buyback at the tail on the dog really targeting what capital you need it to be.
And we need to meet our organic growth opportunities first.
We still continue to look at strategic opportunities at the end of the day if we still have excess capital then that will be something that will be considered but I wouldn't expect a buyback anytime this year at least.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And maybe Clarke could you provide a little more color in terms of the credit infrastructure comments I guess that Daryl made and what the size of those are relative to the operating expenses that you're currently reporting? If you recall Matt last quarter Daryl laid out the non-personnel related what we believe direct cost on an annualized basis to be probably $750 million or more.
We feel still feel that's a good proxy.
But beyond that to Kelly's point we have several hundred people and a number of associated cost in a workout infrastructure area that we think has substantial capacity to either be brought down or support features strategic opportunities.
So we think between the 2 the leverage is pretty significant.
And we're just really scratching the surface on that improvement.
It's just now starting to happen.
That's right we're just now beginning to see the significant reduction coming quarter for example in the OREO expense right now.
But the majority of it we have not realized yet.
And we'll take our next question from Bob Patten with Morgan Keegan Investments.
Inc.</strong> That was my question but just in general where do you guys see the opportunities based on what you're seeing it looks like end of period loans for a lot of the banks are starting to move a little versus average for the quarter.
So it looks like things have picked up.
But is it in the small business is it the C&amp;I is it again Mike Mayo asked it but is it taking share is it acquisitions what markets is Birmingham your best market where do you really see the opportunities? It's pretty broad-based in terms of markets.
Obviously we're getting really phenomenal opportunities in places like Birmingham and Mobile Alabama and Huntsville Alabama and places like that where we have good existing infrastructure and yes have never been a part of the lending operation in that market.
So same thing in Florida.
And so those are going really well.
But also when we are pursuing these verticals specialty areas in various parts of the country we're in a solid base in C&amp;I.
We are having tremendous success because again if you kind of think about it like this at about the same time we decided that we wanted to be a participant in that national corporate middle market space a lot of these companies were looking for another partner because a number of their existing partners had gone away.
The Nat Cities of the world and the Wachovias of the world and the First Union.
So we were looking at the very same time they were receptive and so it's been very receptive but it's across the board within C&amp;I.
Small businesses it's not yet really moving to be honest.
That's the part of the business economy that's still struggling.
It's one of the largest systemic issues in terms of job creation because they do create the majority of the jobs.
But they're still struggling.
Now the fallout rate in that market is slowing as they get stabilized but as you can imagine they're still very reticent to go out and invest they're still kind of hanging on by the fingernails so I think the large market is just doing better.
They just have more flexibility to respond to the environment and frankly they have stronger balance sheets and so they're willing to make more investments.
So I think that's why you're seeing that.
And then in our particular case it's just a lot of market share movement.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then to Clarke.
Clarke when you guys look at your annual reviews for lines of credit and small business middle-market are you seeing improvement year-over-year in the financial presentations that the companies are giving you in terms of updated appraisals and updated financial information? Absolutely Bob.
I would say while businesses are very reticent to borrow they are absolutely improving their health year-to-year.
And so particularly in the middle market side the improvement in operating earnings and particularly in their balance sheets and their liquidity levels looks really good.
They're just very reticent to borrow and to Kelly's point majority of what we're seeing and find again to is refis or dividend recaps very little fix plant and equipment expansion a little bit of M&amp;A.
So again improving strong-looking balance sheets just not a lot of new activity.
We're just fortunate to be able to participate in a number of those refinances.
And we'll take our next question from Brian Foran with Nomura.
I guess on the Insurance Brokerage business.
Recognizing the seasonality but focusing more on year-over-year growth we've gone from negative 4 in 4Q to negative 1 in 1Q to plus 4 in 2Q.
Is it possible do you have a sense of how much that is pricing versus how much of that is market share and for those of us who don't know the business as well is mid-single-digit growth rates reasonable gets at the go forward or is it still accelerating right now? It's a good question Brian.
So we are still in this proverbial soft market.
There's been just a little bit of a price improvement in the wholesale space which precedes the retail but not dramatic.
So we've not yet turned to a hard market.
And while all of our folks predict that it is right around the corner I'll say they've been saying that to me for several years.
And so I think the fact is there is relatively excess capital still in that business.
And as long as it is you're going to stay the price is kind of like where they are.
So our increase is market share movement.
We've clearly been very successful in the marketplace in terms of our strategy.
So typically what you see if the market is down 4% or 5% you might see us up 1% or 2%.
So we tend to have that kind of spread over the market based on our strategy.
And I really kind of think that's the way to think about it going forward.
I mean I think that's I'll say to next year assuming no change in the prices then you can kind of think about our growth in the 2% kind of range maybe 3%.
If you get some price improvement this thing is like an annuity.
I mean it is a lever factor that is like 1:1.
So when we do hit the hard market which is why we keep investing in this and continue to make acquisitions because it's a great business for us today with about $1.1 billion of revenue and very profitable.
We're the most profitable and the most productive of the top 10 brokers and have been for the last 6 years in a row.
And so it's a really good business.
Not growing quite as fast as we'd like but got a lot of future opportunities.
And then if I could follow up on the swap benefit or the hedging benefit you talked about on the long-term debt is this like mechanically do you pull forward an amortization gain and then that gain steps down each quarter going forward which I guess would be akin to what we saw at Huntington last year? Or is this more like you had a basic [ph] swap that was out of the money it now ends so there's a consistent drag that just doesn't show up in the numbers.
So I guess what I'm really is does the benefit from the swap amortization thing you referenced decrease over time? Or is it a constant benefit going forward? Yes Brian.
It's Daryl.
Two things to that so part of it was we did some new issuances that we put a new swaps and we're basically it's going to be a floating-rate to us so some of the benefit you saw there will change if LIBOR changes.
Right now LIBOR is down a little bit from when we put them on.
But that's probably forecasted to be relatively stable for the next year or so until the Fed decides to raise rates.
On the piece that was unwound from a gain perspective it's more on a level yield type basis.
I would expect it probably to bleed down a little bit it shouldn't be substantial.
But I would say that the benefit should cause the long-term debt to go up a couple basis points a quarter.
But substantially you still have that benefit there for the remaining estimated life of those instruments.
So we feel pretty good for the next couple of years that what you see in the benefit there is going to be close to that just up a little bit.
And we'll take our next question from Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
Most of my questions have been answered but I just have one quick question.
On the back of a pretty good quarter with provision to loan ratio I think in about the 1.25 to 1.30 range.
The ROE was still at 7.25%.
So I know you talked about operating leverage revenue growth potentially some more credit quality improvement but what's your ROE target over the long-term for this company? And how quickly do you think you can get to double-digit ROE? And maybe what are some of the near term drivers that will that get us to a double-digit ROE? The important question on that we're all wrestling with is what is the E what are the rate equity levels but if you kind of assume kind of...
I think you're kind of at your appropriate E right now it's not like you probably have to go much higher.
Yes we agree with that absolutely.
So clearly we think in the new world the new normalized ROE is in the 14% to 16% kind of range.
It certainly will be improving steadily literally I think quarter by quarter.
And the big drivers are we still got huge costs as Clarke just alluded to with regard to credit cost in the business and as those credit cost come down there's really not a lot else in the business that has to change over time for us to get back to kind of that normalized kind of level.
We'll be changing and improving a lot of other things in terms of efficiencies and other types of revenue but the big drag on ROE today is still lock-in credit cost.
So you think you can double -- so from this kind of performance that you can double the ROE of the company? Yes.
Okay.
And literally that can happen from revenue growth expenses all of that is enough? Because I mean it seems again I just look at the numbers and certainly there seems like a number of things that you continue to improve.
But it doesn't seem like there's a massive amount of additional credit leverage given where the provision level was this quarter.
There's some but it seems like given the amount of reserve and capturing where the provision was that a big chunk of that is behind you.
How would you respond to that? Well you're just looking at a part of the equation and that's understandable because it's hard to see.
But we know and it's what we've kind of outlined I think for the last quarter but the embedded cost in credit resolution throughout the entire income statement is huge.
And so when you begin to let that lead off over time in addition to some more normalized levels of reserve and provision cost then you begin to get it.
Let me get Clarke to kind of review again kind of the issue of all of those embedded costs.
We think again the direct cost to loan are at least $750 million and when you add in all the personnel side you could be heading up toward north of the $1 billion.
And then the other thing to remind you all that we said last time that we still believe with our current view of loan asset mix and as we move forward with our diversification strategy our long-term risk appetite around loss taking with that mix is probably 60 to 80 basis points annualized losses.
And while we don't know what the new world will totally be around allowance we would expect that to maybe be 2x that level.
So I think the combination of the credit cost coming down and a more normalized provisioning world and allowance levels certainly make a huge impact.
In terms of the operating cost expense savings that $750 million to $1 billion how much of that is personnel related? Yes so out of that $700 million I would say when we came up we were very conservative I would say little over $100 million was FTEs which we know we when came up with that number that some of the people that are on the workout groups side now will get redeployed as revenue producers.
So if we were just being true to that we would have much more decrease in those support groups.
But we think long-term we're going to redeploy a lot of the FTEs back into the field to actually produce revenue.
So we're little bit conservative on the actual savings on the personnel side.
We'll go to our next question from John Pancari with Evercore Partners.
On the margin you talked about your outlook implying some modest lower loan yields can you talk about the loan pricing that you're seeing right now and how competition might be impacting your expectation for loan yields in the coming quarters? It's a fair question.
What we've seen is that there's absolutely pressure in the marketplace particularly in the segments we're playing in on the middle-market side and it's coming down.
While it's still very favorable relative to the peak in '07 it is coming down and what I would suggest to you is that in our case that segment in the marketplace we've seen pressure probably in the 25 to 50 basis points range thus far.
So it's clearly a lot of pressure out there but that's kind of our experience to date.
Okay.
And is it mainly on pricing? Are you seeing some compromise in terms? It started with pricing and certainly the most pressure is on pricing but we are beginning to see in a number of structural issues developing in and around tendering term and other deal structure issues and frankly we're not just choosing to participate in those areas.
So we are seeing risk-taking out there in the marketplace at a higher level but even all that being said it is still better structures than we saw [indiscernible].
Okay.
And then lastly can you just talk about your plans for reinvestment of liquidity into the securities portfolio? I'm sorry if you may have indicated some expectations earlier on the call but you put up some good growth in the bond portfolio this quarter and just wanted to get your thoughts about what type of investments and duration that you're looking at for the coming quarters? Yes so John for what we've bought this past quarter we were really conservative on the durations.
We bought floating rate CMOs short fixed rate CMOS and adjustable-rate mortgage backs which sure drove that increase.
As our liquidity continues to improve you will probably see us continue to purchase more securities next quarter trying to manage our overnight liquidity position.
I think depending on what we see right now we will probably do security similar to that we may start to go out a little bit longer with a different mix of securities.
So I think it's the combination of securities going forward.
And we'll go to our next question from Gerard Cassidy with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> I may have missed this so I apologize if you've already answered this question but do you guys have any levels where you are comfortable with the commercial mortgage portfolio? When do you think that and the ADC portfolio will bottom out and will stabilize? I'll take part of this Gerard then Clarke can chime in.
The ADC portfolio is basically at the bottom.
I mean part of it will go down a little bit more but it's pretty low.
And we said $2 billion to $3 billion and it's kind of in the range.
Then the CRE side we've actually got some opportunities now because we have a pretty good appetite for multi-family.
And we're fortunate to have a really good production vehicle in multi-family in our Grandbridge operation.
And so we can take that and let's say take minus 2% CRE portfolio and we can actually begin to grow it now over the next several quarters.
So that's a growth opportunity a revenue opportunity.
And the way we look at risk diversification because our risk tolerance issue was not around income-producing properties it was around ADC.
And so yes the ADC has about found its bottom might start growing a little bit by the end of this year but won't be a material issue.
On the other hand CRE will be a growth opportunity for us.
LLC</strong> And then the second question on the mitigation strategies for the Durbin amendment what's the prospect in you guys opinion that banks move to an actual annual fee for debit card similar to what credit cards charge today or even if you go back 25 years ago before the ATMs charged for the foreign transactions they were for free and then obviously now we all pay a fee.
Do you think the industry will be brave enough to step forward and say you know what because of this we need to charge $25 a year for a debit card? I absolutely do.
Ironically in a lot of these areas we're going back to the future.
So yes I think that whether it will be an annual fee of $25 or whether it will be $2 a month.
I don't know but my guess is when it settles out it will be something in that neighborhood.
And we'll go to our next question from Kevin Fitzsimmons with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.</strong> Just 2 quick questions just reserve releasing not a surprise that that's part of the story here but just wondering if you can comment on the pace to expect going forward.
When I look at the pace this quarter I'm thinking it's probably a little elevated from the disposition activity you had with charge-offs.
So do we look at it being more at pace from the prior quarter? And then secondly Kelly just wondered if you can comment on M&amp;A in non-bank related M&amp;A and specifically not to get specific on an institution but there's been a lot of discussion about a southeastern based broker/dealer that's on the block and again just generally conceptually is that even something we should think about you all looking at and wanting to add to in your business? Clarke will take the first part and then I'll do the M&amp;A part.
Kevin regarding the reserve release I think you're pretty much on track the way we think about it and believe that you should think about it in this quarter when you look at our core provision our total provision was $328 million.
We had a $15 million impairment for a small colonial pull so if you adjust for that we also had $53 million of allocated reserves for the resi mortgages we sold so obviously those reserved were tied to those loans.
So when you adjust for that the way we think about the allowance reduction for the quarter was about $78 million.
That was about a little under 19% of our pretax.
And if you look at last quarter our allowance reduction was $64 million which was actually 22% of pretax.
So what drove all this is credit quality improvement and given the fact that we're not going to be doing any large bulk transfers at this point I think you'll see a fairly steady normalized improvement in provisioning provided and we're very comfortable that we'll achieve this that our quality continues to improve.
On the M&amp;A side I think you can expect to see us continue to do insurance acquisitions.
And admittedly in the last year and a half or so we haven't done as many but the market really kind of changed I think with the soft market we've the overall uncertainty in the market a lot of sellers just kind of went into hibernation for a while.
But that's really changed in the last 90 days.
So I think you'll see us continue to pursue a fairly aggressive bolt-on strategy for insurance acquisitions.
On the broker/dealer side it's unlikely you would see us do anything of any material size there.
Number one the one you're probably referring to we suspect probably won't end up with a bank but we're pretty pleased with the broker/dealer arrangement we have it supports our franchise very well we can grow it organically.
We don't really see the broker -- acquiring a large broker/dealer is an essential part of our business.
We have a really good robust Capital Markets business in a strong retail operations.
So you might see us do a small bolt-on type of thing but any type of big one I wouldn't expect to see in our future.
One thing you may see though Kevin that I think a lot of people will begin to think about is kind of a nontraditional bulk acquisition which you somewhat characterize merges [ph] as I think you may see more non-whole company assets purchases as this whole remediation process unfolds.
You haven't seen too much of it so far but I think you'll see more of that in the future and that's something we're going to be certainly looking at.
And we'll take our next question from Jefferson Harralson with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I'd like to follow up on Pancari's kind of security deal question seems like there's some opportunity there.
Overtime if you want to what is the current duration of the MBS portfolio? And I see that 1.69% yield there what could that be without a lot of extra effort? Yes so Jefferson what I can tell you is about 30% of the portfolio is floating rate so when rates do increase we will get benefit and those yields will rise.
I will tell you that our duration right now the portfolio is in mid 3% range -- or 3 year range.
It fluctuates depending on prepayments.
But I would say it's from 3.25% to 3.75%.
Going forward I would just say we expect purchase to be mixed what I said earlier.
Some fixed rate longer duration as well as some ARM and floating rate securities.
Although we have a number of callers left in the queue we are out of time for today's conference call.
Daryl and I will be reaching out to you for your follow-up questions.
Thank you everyone for your questions.
We appreciate your participation today and give us a call if you need anything.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Greetings ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the BB&amp;T Corporation Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call on October 20 2011.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Ms.
Tamera Gjesdal Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for BB&amp;T Corporation.
Thank you.
You may begin Tamera.
Thank you David and good morning everyone.
And thanks to all of our listeners for joining us today.
This call is being broadcast on the Internet from our website at bbt.com.
We have with us today Kelly King our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Daryl Bible our Chief Financial Officer; and Clarke Starnes our Chief Risk Officer who will review the results for the third quarter of 2011 as well as provide a look ahead.
We will be referencing a slide presentation during our remarks today.
A copy of the presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental financial information are available on the BB&amp;T website.
After Kelly Daryl and Clarke have made their remarks we will pause to have David come back on the line and explain how you may participate in the Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin let me remind you BB&amp;T does not provide public earnings predictions or forecasts.
However there may be statements made during the course of this call that express management's intentions beliefs or expectations.
BB&amp;T's actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to be materially different is contained on Slide 2 of our presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
Our presentation includes certain non-GAAP disclosures.
Please refer to Page 2 and the appendix of our presentation for the appropriate reconciliations to GAAP.
And now it is my pleasure to introduce our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Kelly King.
Thank you Tamera and good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining our call.
We recognize you all have a busy morning so thanks for being with us.
We're very pleased to have a chance to talk to you about our quarter.
We think it's a very strong quarter.
In fact it's the best quarter we've had in 3 years.
So we're pretty pleased.
I'm on Slide 3 if you're following along.
Cover a few highlights.
So net income available to shareholders totaled  $366 million which is up 74.3% versus third quarter of '10.
EPS was $0.52 up 73.3% versus Q3 '10.
And if you look at versus Q2 we made $0.44 so it's up an annualized 72% so very strong.
And I would just point out with regard to earnings in general as a highlight that we did start in the third quarter an expense and revenue optimization process.
We're basically -- we're asking all of our business leaders to reconceptualize their businesses recognize and we think we're in for a relatively protracted period of somewhat slow growth in the overall economy.
And so we're really taking a hard look at our revenues and expenses and -- but more from a conceptualization point of view versus an absolute cut perspective.
So we're pretty optimistic about what that will do in future periods with regard to earnings improvement.
Taking a look at revenues.
We're very pleased that tax equivalent net interest income totaled $1.5 billion.
It was up 18.3% versus our second quarter.
Now that was substantially influenced by a substantial increase in securities and we did have some headwinds on the fee income side.
We did have some OTTI negative impact.
We had about a $37 million loss and write-down on loans held for sale which we think is kind of onetime cleanup.
We did have a typical seasonal insurance decline which we see every time this quarter but it's pretty significant.
And we did have a meaningful FDIC loss share negative.
But remember that's more than offset in net interest income.
So some headwinds on the fee side but some very strong underlying fee income business performances as well.
So if you look at total revenues second to third annualized if you exclude OTTI and loss on held for sale which we consider to be unusual it would be up annualized about 3.5% so pretty strong in this environment.
We did again produce positive operating leverage.
And as I've mentioned to you before we continue to selectively hire revenue producers so we continue to invest in our revenue production and feel relatively pretty good about it.
Credit quality.
Was just another great quarter.
Clarke can talk to you in more detail about it but in the highlight perspective OREO NPLs performer TDRs NPL inflows watch list loans and charge-offs all declined so it was another great quarter.
NPAs I'm very pleased to say decreased 11.5% and NPA inflows decreased 12.1% both stronger than we had originally given guidance on.
We had relatively strong loan growth given the environment we're in.
Average total loan growth was 4.3% versus Q2.
If you look at average loan growth excluding ADC and covered and other acquired portfolios it was a very strong 7.4%.
So we feel really good about that and it was broad-based and with the faster pace of fast quarter.
And so we're seeing good strong loan growth in C&amp;I Direct Retail specialized lending and mortgage.
I'll give you a little detail on that.
And right now we're seeing no signs of slowing so our outlook is positive with regard to our loan book.
Deposits just continue to be phenomenal with noninterest-bearing deposits increasing $1.2 billion or 21.8% in the third.
Average total deposits increased $8.6 billion or 32% so we're still seeing a flight of deposits into the banking system and certainly the stronger banks from a quality perspective.
If you look on Slide 4.
We do have 3 unusual items I  just wanted to mention to you.
So I said we did have some loan in write-downs losses in write-downs in our NPA held for sale.
Remember we've been working that down over the last year.
We got a small amount left in there so we did take a cleanup mark on that.
We expect that portfolio to be basically gone within the next month or 2.
But it was a pretax negative $37 million which was negative $0.03.
We sold a leverage lease during the quarter which produces a pretax $16 million loss in other income but we also had a $32 million positive tax effect.
Substantially most of that was on the -- a positive effect on the seller of the lease.
There was some small additional independent true-ups but that was a positive $0.02.
And then this -- we had some other than temporary impairment on some securities which was $39 million pretax or a negative $0.03 on EPS.
We do not expect much of any of that in the fourth.
We just took a pretty aggressive position with regard to that in the third.
On the fifth slide.
Just a little more commentary for you on our balance sheet.
And I want you to use [ph] this time to think about our strategies in terms of kind of our community bank strategy our corporate strategy and our Special Lending business strategy.
So in the community bank we are really focused and have been for the last 3 years on our diversification strategy.
Recall we told you 3 years ago that we wanted to become less dependent on real estate and relatively more dependent on C&amp;I and also on the liability side less dependent on CDs and more dependent on low-cost transaction accounts.
We continue to execute I think in a superb fashion on that.
But for example in the third quarter new production in the community bank was 85% C&amp;I 15% CRE.
Direct Retail is a nice positive story in the turn 5.9% annualized growth in the period.
This is after 2 years of declines.
In fact September was our best production month since 2008.
It's broad-based.
We're getting a lot of growth in first lien.
This is $50 000 $100 000 first mortgage loan for people who refinanced in small balance loans or doing home improvements that type of thing.
Our wealth strategy is really kicking in getting nice growth there as is our small business strategy.
So we feel really good about our retail growth going forward.
Mortgage is beginning to have yet another ramp-up in terms of these slow interest rates and mortgage applications were up 87% compared to the second.
And our production which of course as you know lags application was also strong $5.5 billion in the third versus $3.9 billion in the second.
So nice production in the third and likely to produce nice production in the fourth.
Deposits as I indicate continue to do really well.
You'll recall that in the last couple of quarters we talked to you about transitioning from free checking into what we call Bright Banking.
So we're seeing strong growth in checking money market CDs.
Now I will point out that some of our growth in CDs is due to our focus on improving our Basel liquidity.
But in general we're gaining more active accounts more fully banked primary relationships relative to the free checking days.
So while you might not open as many accounts you open more full long-term relationship-oriented accounts which are more profitable so that's a very successful strategy.
And our Specialized Lending is just frankly doing great.
You recall over the last it's really several years we've invested very heavily in building those businesses.
These businesses are small-ticket consumer finance insurance premium finance commercial equipment and mortgage prime and nonprime auto and mortgage warehouse lending.
What I like about it is it's very diversified.
So all areas grew.
Quality is at record levels in the businesses.
Part of that is the markets themselves are actually doing pretty well but a lot of it is we've done some really good tightening in terms of our underwriting and overall risk management processes.
It's a very diversified portfolio in 2 regards: By type as I just described and by market.
So while we're having strong growth in there I'm very pleased about it because it's a very diversified asset area to be growing.
And then I told you in the past we have a very unique market opportunity in the Corporate Banking area.
Recall that we have not been except in the last couple of years really focused on large corporate or what you would call middle market.
And a lot of the large corporate middle market players have kind of gone away and so we are finding that there's a really pretty strong appetite out there for a high-quality highly rated name like BB&amp;T in the space.
And so -- but we're really having some great numbers there.
But we have not changed our methodology.
We have not changed our approach in terms of underwriting or selection.
We remain middle market-focused very relationship-based.
We're not just out buying syndicated tranches with no relationships.
We avoid leveraged sponsored lending.
We have strict hold limits.
And even with that our end-of-period balance has increased 16.4% compared with second quarter and 48% over Q3 '10.
So nice ramp-up but a very diversified portfolio.
We are frankly getting some benefit from some European fallout from the way they're pulling away from high-quality credits because of their own capital issues.
And we continue to add lending personnel in that area because it's a very strong success area for us.
That's also creating a lot of our deposit growth at the same time so it's broad-based relationship again.
So I want to re-emphasize that our underwriting and hold positions have not changed.
And while we see some of that going on in the industry we are very disciplined about that and we are not going to sacrifice quality for growth.
Overall you can make that same commentary with regard to our lower relative risk profile in general.
Though as you know our values-driven culture drives our focus on all of our businesses.
So there's been no change in our risk appetite.
We have minimal exposure to European banks no sovereign exposure.
In fact I consider that to be virtually irrelevant for us just because of the nature of who we are.
We operate a very conservative mortgage operation.
And so while that's had a lot of notoriety it's not a big issue for us on the negative side.
It's a pretty big issue on the positive side.
Recent vintage credits are very high quality.
And again we continue to focus on granularity.
So we're very overall very disciplined about our growth strategy and therefore we feel good about the asset numbers.
A little more detail on that as you look in Slide 6.
So in addition to our corporate strong performance we also have broad-based loan growth.
You can see there C&amp;I in general was up 7.5% sales finance is up 2.8% revolving credit 7.5% residential mortgage 11%.
Specialized lending as I referred to is very strong 30.8%.
We get some seasonality in that now.
So some quarters it's up strong in some quarters not quite as much.
So this is a pretty strong quarter.
And while a low number I'm very pleased with this Direct Retail 3.6% because that's a bit like an annuity because once it turns positive it kind of tends to stay positive for quite a long cycle.
So 7.4% excluding ADC and covered loans and obviously we've got a big run-off in ADC 48% which is  exactly on strategy.
The covered loans are predictably declining so incorporating all of that 4.3% which is we think strong.
We did gain momentum in growth.
So end-of-period loans were up $1.3 billion annualized $5.1 billion.
Our pipelines remain robust.
We continue to focus on high-quality granular portfolios.
And so we are raising our guidance slightly.
We see loan growth in the 4% to 6% range contingent on how the economy does.
Now I will tell you that we believe that we are moving market share.
When we talk -- when I talk to our producers out there with fairly strong loan growth I ask them if the economy is growing that fast and they quickly say no that about 80% of what we're booking is moving market share.
So the economy is still not growing at a very fast pace because uncertainty is still really high out there coming out of all the negative leadership from Washington primarily.
I will say on a positive however that we believe when we get positive leadership out of Washington we believe at least in our markets and we think in general that businesses are poised to invest and therefore we're poised for much better growth.
I really think we've got pent-up opportunity in this market and when we get more positive leadership coming out of Washington I believe we'll see it happen probably happen pretty quickly.
If you look at Page 7.
Just a little bit of color with regard to deposits.
We really feel good about our overall absolute growth in deposits especially given that we keep a tight focus on managing our margin particularly with regard to costs.
So our costs went down from 0.72% to 0.65% second to third.
Given strong loan growth I think that's very good.
TDA was up a very strong 21.8%.
Interest checking 14.4% money market 28.1% and CD is a very strong 63.6% but I want to reinforce again part of that was some particular emphasis on public funds and large corporate deposits which are stable deposit relationships but you won't expect to see that kind of on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
So in spite of that focus we grew CDs and in spite of the fact that our -- had a 25 basis points decrease in cost.
And we're not taking long rate exposure because our average CD maturity is 15 months.
So we are expecting deposit growth to moderate somewhat in the fourth relative to the third because it of this focus on Basel III liquidity but still a very strong long-term performance in our deposit area.
Let me turn it to Clarke now to give you some color with regard to the credit area and then Daryl will give you some color with regard to a number of other areas.
Clarke? Thanks Kelly and good morning everyone.
I'm very pleased to report continued positive trends in our credit performance for the third quarter.
We're particularly pleased that the pace of our credit improvement remains strong and consistent with our previous guidance.
As Kelly mentioned earlier our credit improvement continues to be broad-based reflected by link quarter improvements in our key credit performance measures.
On Slide 8 you can see the solid decreases in the key performance categories again this quarter.
We have lower levels of watch list credits 90 days still accruing performing TDRs NPA inflows NPLs OREO total NPAs and net charge-offs.
Over the next few slides I'll share some additional color and key drivers for these improving trends.
Slide 9 shows the significant link quarter decrease in nonperforming assets.
NPAs have declined approximately $1.2 billion in the last year.
Current balance in fact is our lowest level in 2.5 years.
Total NPAs were down 11.5% exceeding the 5% to 10% guidance we gave you last quarter so we're very pleased about that.
NPLs were down 8.9% led by a reduction in commercial non-accruals of 11.1%.
Additionally OREO is down a significant 16.2% and I'll mention more about that in a moment.
We explained last quarter that we were moving to a more traditional workout strategy for NPAs with less reliance on larger bulk asset sales.
Even so we successfully sold approximately $450 million in problem assets this quarter.
The remaining balance in NPAs held for sale dropped to only $26 million at quarter end.
That amount will be sold in the next month or 2 as Kelly said.
Looking ahead we expect to see further reductions in nonperforming assets in coming quarters.
We want to reaffirm our guidance of a 5% to 10% decrease in the fourth quarter assuming the economy does not significantly deteriorate.
Looking at the bottom of Slide 9.
We are turning greater attention to a more focused reduction of OREO.
You can see that inflows to OREO fell significantly this quarter down 52.8%.
That represented our lowest OREO inflow since the second quarter of '08.
This improvement does reflect a more aggressive strategy to resolve problem credits without taking title to the asset.
We're also trying to more rapidly sell existing foreclosed properties.
In Q3 this strategy resulted in somewhat higher foreclosed property expense and much reduced inflows.
These efforts we are quite confident should reduce the balance of foreclosed property at a faster pace and drive a decrease in the run rate for foreclosed property expense in '12.
Turning to Slide 10.
You'll note the 12.1% decrease in NPA inflows led by a 19% decrease in commercial NPL inflows.
I would also highlight that we saw a 45.6% decrease in NPL inflows compared to the third quarter of last year.
Early credit indicators continue to be very positive since [ph] 90 days or more past due and still accruing declined 7.9%.
We did see some normal seasonal increase up about 5.7% in the 30- to 89-day segment that was principally from our specialized lending and mortgage portfolios.
Exclude these areas remaining portfolios were actually down 1.9%.
It is notable that of our early-stage delinquency numbers are now at levels similar to 2006.
We're very pleased with these early-stage results that are now returning to more normalized levels.
Total performing TDRs decreased 9.4% this quarter including a 32% decrease in commercial TDRs.
We expect continued declines in our TDRs because we are consciously creating less modifications that would be considered TDRs.
You'll note on the detailed schedules in the press release that now we have less than $250 million in commercial TDRs and 2/3 of our TDRs are in the mortgage and home equity portfolios.
Those obviously are longer-dated modifications so the pace of decline in TDRs will slow as the other loan categories pay down or are cured.
We're also very pleased that these modifications are performing well.
88% of our performing TDRs are current.
Due to the improved portfolio performance our provision expense decreased this quarter to 66% of charge-offs excluding covered items.
While our provision was down this quarter we actually improved the NPL coverage ratio to 115% excluding covered loans.
We do plan to remain conservative with the respect to the allowance.
I would point out however that our recent credit vintages and those are the loans we've made actually during the downturn are performing very well and are creating some downward pressure in our allowance modeling.
But continued improvement in our credit quality indicators and performance should allow for further reductions in provision expense and a significant reduction in other credit-related costs in the coming quarters.
In summary we're very pleased with the solid pace of credit improvement this quarter.
Everything we're seeing from a credit perspective is very positive and continues to move in the right direction.
Finally looking at Slide 11.
You'll note that our charge-offs excluding covered loans for the quarter were 1.44% down from 1.8% last quarter.
This amount is consistent with our guidance from last quarter and represents a 17.6% decrease in losses compared to Q2.
Total losses on a GAAP basis which include the covered loan portfolio were still down 5.6%.
Total charge-offs did include a $53 million charge-off for covered loans.
This represents losses in certain acquired loan pools that exceeded our acquisition date projections.
This impairment was provided for in prior quarters subject to the loss share reimbursement with the FDIC and therefore had no income statement impact.
We continue to be very pleased with the overall performance of the covered portfolio.
In fact the covered portfolio has performed substantially better than our original projections.
Looking forward we expect core charge-offs to remain in the 140 to 150 range in the fourth quarter.
So again I feel very good from a credit perspective.
We're moving in a very positive direction despite a challenging economy.
So with that let me turn it over to Daryl for his comments.
Thank you Clarke and good morning everyone.
I'm going to take a few minutes to discuss net interest margin the securities portfolio expansion fee income noninterest expense and capital.
Continuing in the presentation on Slide 12.
Net interest margin for the quarter came in very strong at 4.09% down 6 basis points from the second quarter consistent with our expectations.
The margin continues to benefit from wider credit spreads lower funding costs particularly interest-bearing deposit costs and lower NPAs compared to last quarter.
When you adjust nonperforming assets and interest reversals to a more normalized level our net interest margin would be about 7 basis points higher.
There was no change in net interest income related to the assets acquired in the Colonial transaction.
Adjusting for the provision for covered loans and the increase in the FDIC loss share offset net revenues decreased $15 million due to the impact of covered assets.
With regard to the margin outlook we expect the margin to decrease to around slightly above 4% for the fourth quarter of 2011.
This decline is driven by lower yields on new loans runoff of the covered asset portfolio and a mix change in earning assets to include additional securities.
Offsetting part of this impact the margin will continue to benefit from falling rates from falling interest-bearing deposit costs.
Also as you can see on the graph we remain asset-sensitive and are positioned for rising rates.
Additionally given the uncertainty in the rate environment we continue to position ourselves to benefit should short-term rates decrease 25 basis points.
Turning to Slide 13.
During the third quarter we purchased $5.3 billion in securities consisting primarily of fixed rate Ginnie Mae securities and Ginnie Mae ARMs.
The purchase of these securities along with significant growth in deposits helped us make significant progress toward complying with Basel III liquidity guidelines.
Even with these purchases we are appropriately hedged to maintain our asset sensitivity.
The effective duration of the securities portfolio remains at 2.7 years.
BB&amp;T maintains a very low risk investment portfolio.
Over 95% of the portfolio is guaranteed by state and federal government agencies.
Additionally approximately 28% of the portfolio is variable rate.
Lastly we also maintain a significant portion of fixed CMOs which will provide stable cash flows and are less subject to significant extension risk.
Turning to Slide 14.
Our fee income ratio decreased to 39.3% in the third quarter from 40.8% in the second quarter.
The decrease was due to seasonally lower insurance income lower service charges on deposits due to the July 1 posting order changes and lower investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions due to the rate environment and lower volume.
We expect insurance income to rebound in the fourth quarter.
Mortgage banking income for the third quarter was $123 million compared to $83 million in the second quarter.
The increase was due to higher production revenues of approximately $23 million and a $30 million net gain in MSR from positive hedge performance.
This increase is partially offset by write-downs of the residential MSR from increased prepayment fees.
We benefited from an 87% increase in mortgage application volume and a 43% increase in mortgage originations.
Other deposit fees and commissions increased primarily in connection with the continued growth of Corporate Banking.
The FDIC loss share income offset increased $23 million as a result of the impact of the improved cash flows from the small duration adjustment of covered assets and less impairment on covered loans.
In addition the balance at the end of the quarter for accretable yield decreased to $2.1 billion from $2.5 billion last quarter.
Security losses reflect OTTI due to weaker collateral performance for certain non-agency mortgage-backed securities.
Decrease in other income includes higher losses on write-downs of $10 million on commercial loans held for sale $16 million in lower income on trading assets for post-employment benefits offset in personal costs and $12 million in higher income on venture capital investments.
Looking forward we expect fee income to improve due to stronger insurance income much lower OTTI if any and decreased write-downs in NPLs held for sale as we complete those sales.
Even with an estimated $35 million reduction in check card fees from debit interchange regulations fee income and revenues will be stronger in the fourth quarter.
Looking on Slide 15.
Our efficiency ratio improved to 54.6% compared to 55.8% last quarter.
We achieved positive operating leverage this quarter and we expect this to continue into the fourth quarter with stronger revenues and lower expenses.
Personnel expense decreased $12 million or 7% annualized.
The decrease relates to a $16 million reduction in post-employment benefit expense that are offset in lower noninterest income.
FTEs were up 67 in the quarter and 353 over last year largely composed of revenue producers in investment services Wealth Management mortgage lending and Direct Retail lending.
Foreclosed property expense increased largely due to higher write-downs and losses associated with a more aggressive approach to reducing foreclosed real estate Clarke talked about.
Professional services increased $16 million due to legal expenses.
Other noninterest expenses increased $12 million which includes the loss of a sale of a leveraged lease totaled $16 million.
Finally excluding the tax benefit from the leveraged lease sale and a true-up of last year's provision from the federal tax return third quarter effective tax rate was 21.6%.
This was in line with our expectations and should continue in this range for the fourth quarter.
Turning to Slide 16.
Our capital ratios remain very strong.
Tier 1 common improved to 9.8% from 9.6% last quarter.
Tier 1 capital improved to 12.5% compared to 12.4%.
Leveraged capital remained strong at 9.2% tangible common remained healthy at 7.1% and total capital was 16.1%.
Our internal capital generation continues to provide significant financial flexibility for capital deployment in the following order: organic growth dividends strategic opportunities and share buyback.
Our current estimate for Tier 1 common under Basel III is 8.8% up substantially with the last quarter driven by an increase in retained earnings improved OCI and lower levels of DTA and MSR.
We believe this will meet the 7%-plus SIFI buffer once the regulators publish the U.S.
capital rules.
In addition we are well ahead of our projected capital levels as presented in the CCAR capital plan.
This positions BB&amp;T with additional financial flexibility.
As a reminder we plan to call all of our trust preferred securities during 2012 and ending in 2013.
With that let me turn it back to Kelly for closing remarks and Q&amp;A.
Thank you Daryl.
So as you can see we consider this to be overall a great quarter especially given the environment especially because I think we are a very good Main Street bank.
We're not being affected by some of the global macro issues that you're hearing.
Obviously the general U.S.
economy has been slow for these last several periods.
Although we see no evidence that recent discussions in Washington are immediately and directly affecting credit so we as we indicated had very strong credit performance in the third and look forward to be strong in the fourth.
So underlying fundamentals in loans and deposits are exceptionally strong.
We've made great progress on accomplishing our diversification and workout strategies continue to invest to drive revenue and loan growth.
As I mentioned we are reconceptualizing our businesses to drive revenue and expense optimization and we believe we are providing the best value proposition in our markets.
So in spite of the fact that the last several quarters continued to improve we still believe our best days are ahead.
Now I'll turn it back to Tamera for questions.
Thank you Kelly.
Before we move to the Q&amp;A segment of this call I'll ask that we use the same process as we have in the past to give fair access to all participants.
You will be limited to one primary question and one follow-up.
If you have further questions please re-enter the queue so that others may have the opportunity to participate.
David could you please explain the procedures? [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just on the business optimization strategy any numbers that you can put out there either on the revenue side or specifically on the expense side? I think last quarter you talked about the total environmental cost embedded both in the revenues and expenses and some update on that.
And maybe the timing.
Obviously it's a little lumpy right now as you work through some of the OREO.
But you mentioned that'll come down next year.
Any numbers around one the environmental costs and then two just the optimization strategy in general? It's a good question.
So conceptually the way we are approaching this and we think is the right approach is a challenge to our managers to start with a clean sheet of paper given the new world we're operating in from both a regulatory environmental economic perspective to reconceptualize their businesses.
We have a very thorough process where they upon reconceptualization they present their information to a team that Daryl leads and then it's ultimately presented to our entire executive team.
And frankly the response has been extremely enthusiastic.
People really appreciate this approach versus a cramdown where I just say cut 5% or cut 10%.
So we have not set a number.
I'm not going to set a number.
I believe we will get better execution on running the business in a way that is sustained [ph] on improving it from a long-term point of view not setting a direct number today.
I think it'll be substantial.
We'll give you some updates as we kind of go along.
But today I've not set a number.
With regard to the general environmental issues and the credit issues I'd say environmentally obviously there are still headwinds out there in terms of the fee income area around Durbin and other factors that we've been dealing with.
We feel really good about where we are in terms of dealing with the Reg E changes.
As I indicated Bright Banking is going extremely well and that substantially deals with that issue.
I'll go ahead and address the issue with regard to Durbin as obviously there's a lot of conversation a lot of smoke out there with regard to Durbin and debit cards.
I still remember my parents telling me when I was young "When it's lightening outside stay in the house." Well we're kind of taking a cautious approach with regard to where the debit card issue is.
But we are nonetheless totally committed to recapturing the lost income.
I will say because of all the reaction out there it's probably going to take a little longer than we maybe earlier thought but we have no less degree of confidence in terms of getting that.
Let me ask Clarke though to respond to part of your question Matt with regard to how we feel about recovering the credit issues not just the provision but the other credit costs over time.
Yes Matt as we talked about before we think the biggest credit lever we have outside the relief and provisioning is really in the OREO side and related credit costs around personnel and legal fees.
And as we said before we think that number is easily in the $700 million range pretax.
And so that's one of the reasons you've seen us take a little more aggressive stand now on our OREO liquidation and managing these inflows.
So we think those numbers are -- we're beginning to see some of that benefit as we get these balances down and we think that we'll see a good bit of that as we move through '12 and beyond.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as my follow-up Daryl a question for you.
On Page 5 of your release you show the net impact of the FDIC the covered loans and it's a very helpful table.
Could you just remind us though as we think about that net number of 2011 that came down a little how that will trend over time? Because I think a lot of folks are just focused on the net interest income impact.
The accretable yield as you mentioned came down.
But how do we think about the net impact trending out not just for 4Q but maybe some thoughts on next year? Yes.
Over time you will see both net interest income and the FDIC loss share impact both be reduced over time.
Now from a number perspective it might be a little bit lumpy from a quarter-to-quarter basis but I would say it would probably trend down in the maybe $15 million to $30 million impact per quarter range but it won't be even.
It will definitely be ups and downs there.
It's due to the duration of the assets both on  the loan side and on the FDIC receivable.
But it will start to trend down over the next 3 years as the loss share on the commercial side expires will be the bulk of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's more of a kind of steady runoff as opposed to a specific year where it gaps down? Yes.
I mean at the end of August third quarter of '14 and that's when the commercial fund [ph] basically gets cleaned up and then the residential one is another 5 years longer than that.
But the bulk of the assets were in the commercial.
I would say it would be steady projection down through the third quarter of '14.
Our next question comes from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just if you could elaborate a little more on the margin and where you expect that to go next year.
Right now as the benefit from Colonial runs down our securities will go up a little bit in the fourth quarter.
And we gave you guidance to be right around 4% a little bit above there.
I would say in '12 that will continue to come down Mike probably averaging in the year in the $3.90 give or take $0.05 so maybe $3.85 to $3.95.
Research Division</strong> And how should we think about the relationship between the margin and the 10-year? The 10-year is lower than you or anybody else thought.
Is that a useful benchmark to think about the margin? In other words if the 10-year were to go higher and the yield curve were to steepen then maybe the margin could be better than what you just said.
Sure I mean the 10-year is an indication of how flat the curve is.
I mean for the most part our bank is priced 5 years and in.
You have a couple of assets that are out longer than 5 years.
But it is an indication of the flatness of the curve.
I mean the longer the curve stays flat the more pressure will be on margin.
We talked last quarter that we think the first year impact is about 5 basis points to margin.
If it stays down for several years then that's going to continue to put more pressure on margin.
But let's just kind of wait and see how long it stays down and how prolonged that is.
But Matt we -- everybody has their own -- I mean Mike everybody has their own views.
But our view my view is that while it will likely stay flat maybe for most of next year as soon as this economy gets some sign of life you're going to see the Federal Reserve react to that so I don't think it's going to be as flat and as low as long as everybody else does.
Our next question comes from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My first question is just about in terms of loans Kelly I heard your points earlier about the focus on corporate lending.
But this quarter a lot of the growth was -- came in from $1 billion of residential mortgage.
So I'm just wondering if you could talk us through as you think forward to the next couple of years where you expect the majority of your loan growth to come from in terms of the mix within the portfolio? Thank you Ken.
So we think it'll be pretty balanced.
We think it'll be relatively fast growth in corporate loans retail loans and specialized lending.
The corporate loans for the next couple of years will probably still grow faster than the other 2 segments because again we just have this whopping unique opportunity.
And we're just beginning to scratch the surface in terms of the national relationships that can be developed.
So it'll grow at a faster pace.
The retail is going to be -- it'll be steadily picking up pace because remember how that works when you have a mature large retail portfolio that's been running off for 2 or 3 years make that turn it's kind of a permanent turn.
It'll keep building assuming production grows which production is growing.
And then in our wealth strategy it's really just beginning to come into its own.
So I think retail will be growing at an accelerated pace.
Wealth will be growing at an accelerated pace.
Corporate will stay very strong.
So altogether those will be the drivers.
You wouldn't expect to see over the next 2 or 3 years mortgage be the driver that it has been for several reasons.
One is the volumes are unlikely to be at this level for several years.
I mean rates once they go back up you won't see the refis.
And once frankly other asset opportunities are available we'll have less appetite to retain mortgages on our book.
So I would think about it in terms of corporate retail and specialized lending.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great and my follow-up relates to the other side of the balance sheet with deposits.
You had a real exceptional spike in the deposit growth.
And I was just wondering if you could characterize where that deposit growth's coming from.
Is it all sticky core deposit growth? Or are you seeing any type of flight to quality? Because you guys have been growing deposits very well for a while but this certainly was a real meaningful uptick.
Well it was an uptick for 2 reasons Ken.
I think one is that we continue to see on a broad base accelerated movement to us in general because of flight to quality.
Also as you know there's an awful lot of upset in our market today in terms of what's going on with some of our major competitors mergers and other situations that's working to our advantage.
And part of that is because we did have a focused strategy in terms of bulking up in terms of corporate CDs and public fund CDs around our Basel liquidity strategy.
But even with that it's relationship-based.
It's people that we've known for a long time and we just -- frankly we're a little more aggressive in terms of attracting some of those deposits to get a bigger share of that to create that Basel liquidity that we wanted.
So you won't -- that's the only other part that you'll see kind of maybe go back down as we head into the fourth.
The rest of it will remain constant.
Our next question comes from Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
My first question is a follow-up to Matt's.
I think in previous calls you've identified about $750 million to $1 billion in cyclical expenses that are mostly related to credit.
And I know you don't want to commit to a number but I was just wondering whether or not the expense optimization process that started this quarter is separate in terms of identifying separate savings from credit-related expenses? Yes Erica those are completely distinct and separate.
What we described to you before 2 or 3 quarters ago is playing out.
It will methodically play out and pretty certainly play out as the nonperforming assets fade away because it's completely directly related to it.
The reconceptualization process is essentially different.
It is about recognizing that we're in a new world and challenging our business leaders to -- in that context to from the bottom up reconceptualize their businesses on the revenue and on the expense side.
And so on the expense side it'll be more in terms of expense reductions because of new processes and new approaches and eliminating things we were doing.
On the revenue side it'll be about reallocation of expenses.
We don't expect to reduce our expenses on the revenue side.
What we expect to do is increase our revenues relative to the expenses we expend by squeezing the gap between our lower-performing producers and our higher-performing producers.
And based on some analysis we've done we think there's pretty material revenue ramp out of that so that's why we call it a revenue and an expense optimization process.
I see.
And my follow-up question is I think for Daryl.
You mentioned that some of the securities purchases were in part to be more compliant with the Basel III liquidity requirements.
I guess do you have a particular number in mind in terms of the size of the bond portfolio that would make you say "Okay I think this is sort of the liquidity that we need at this point"? Yes.
Erica if you look at our period-end balances at the end of September we were about $33 billion in securities.
We would probably end the year at $35 billion.
So we're going to go up a couple more billion and that's probably going to be the level we're going to stay at throughout 2012 unless there's significant changes in the Basel III liquidity rules.
But that's probably where we need to be based upon what we know today.
Our next question comes from John Pancari with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the opportunities to grow in the large corporate and Kelly you mentioned that that's a real opportunity in terms of upside potential through 2012.
Can you talk about the loan price competition you may be seeing at that end? I know you got to it a little bit in your prepared comments.
But we're certainly hearing that a lot of the larger banks are pushing the large corporate pretty heavily.
Yes that's really what's happening John in the marketplace.
So what we're seeing is that we just had a very tiny reduction in our yield 3 basis points.
Our spreads actually went up in that corporate lending space.
There is a lot of competition particularly on the very high-end deals which frankly we don't participate in.
We follow it very carefully but we don't participate in a very largest deals.
That's where the most aggressive pricing is going on.
But there is competition throughout but we hold firm with regard to our yield expectations and we may not get as high a percentage of deals as others might get.
We're just not going to sacrifice quality and profitability for growth.
We'll work harder to try to get it but we're not going to sacrifice quality and profitability.
So it's not a major issue for us today.
I would say in general though if you just look for us and everybody else even with the compression of late it is still better than it was 2 years ago.
So I mean 2 years ago and before we kind of got -- maybe 3 years ago before we got into crisis spreads had really -- gotten really really low.
And then they gapped up pretty nicely.
We've given back about 50 basis points of that over the last call it 3 or 4 months.
But we're still 100 to 125 basis points higher than we were 3 years ago.
So it's a very attractive space for us and the internal rates of return for us are very attractive.
Let me turn to Clarke though to just give you a bit more color on that.
Absolutely.
John one of the things that I will -- a little detail out would give you guys is that as Kelly said we don't purposely participate in the large syndicated league [ph] table type deals.
In fact about 80% of our syndicated participations are on deal facilities $750 million or less where we have specific knowledge of the industry and the management team.
And so we typically get better pricing in those transactions.
We also have much better opportunity to sell other noncredit services and get our shares.
So that's where we focus and have been very successful and also it is very attractive from a risk standpoint.
But to Kelly's point we're seeing probably 50 basis point contraction over the last year or so and tenures go out 3 to 5 years.
So there's definitely more competition and where it doesn't make sense for us we're walking away.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's very helpful.
My follow-up question beyond the M&amp;A side can you talk a little bit about your -- an update here on your M&amp;A appetite on the bank and nonbank side? I know you had done some insurance deals recently but if you could talk about on the bank and nonbank side.
Yes on the nonbank side as you said we have executed some recent insurance deals kind of bread-and-butter-type deals like we've done for a long time.
We see that continuing at a fairly normalized kind of pace of for the next 2 or 3 years so we kind of -- we went through a period there where for about 18 months it just kind of really died.
I think that's when everybody was just kind of backing up trying to reassess the world.
But that seems to have settled down so we're kind of back in that game.
We'll also continue to look at some specialty commercial finance and those types of businesses but I really don't expect a lot in that area to be honest John.
But in the bank space what we think now is that everybody is generally still kind of hunkered down.
I think everybody is kind of trying to figure out where are we on regulations where are we on the global economy.
And then to be honest most people that are potential sellers their prices are depressed.
You always think in terms of preferring to do a deal when the prices are higher.
So you get all of those factors.
people are a little bit reticent to be too aggressive to date.
Having said that I think we are approaching a period maybe we're in the beginning stages of it where people are going to begin to realize that we're kind of in the new norm.
I mean we're not going to go back to where we were 3 years ago.
And so decisions are going to have to be made strategically based on kind of the current facts.
And so given that we expect the willingness to consider strategic combinations to increase over the next year or so.
We remain interested in acquisitions.
We have not changed our view that our scale is important in the industry particularly as revenue opportunities going forward is relatively slow.
As technological and regulatory costs continue to increase our scale becomes very important.
We are really focused on the I'd say the bread-and-butter kind of deals.
We're not spending any energy worrying about the really big deals.
I frankly think there is -- you get a lot of talk there very unlikely.
So we're not spending any energy on that.
We are focusing an appropriate amount of energy on kind of the medium-sized deals.
Let's just call it $3 billion to $15 billion kind of size which I think is a good size for us to date.
And -- but I want to be very clear John that while the question which I appreciate is on M&amp;A our #1 focus remains on organic growth.
We have this phenomenal opportunity in the organic space and that's where the vast majority of our focus is placed.
And our next question comes from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> The question I had was Daryl you answered the question on the Colonial what we can expect in terms of revenue and earnings.
Do you have an outlook for the FDIC loss share the reversal that you put into your noninterest income for next year? Do you have an idea what that could be running at for modeling purposes? Girard I would say it would probably continue to come down.
I wouldn't say it's going to be a -- perfectly decline but it's going to decline anywhere from $10 million to $15 million every quarter next year in that neighborhood.
I mean it'll be a little bit lumpy.
It won't be exact but in that ballpark.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the stress test you all will go through in the spring with the other banks when we come out of it banks will be permitted to probably raise their dividends and do buybacks.
Can you share with us your guys' thoughts assuming you come through it with flying colors what -- and if acquisitions don't materialize the way maybe you're hoping would you -- I know in the past you were really not too keen on buybacks but would you consider that if you were authorized to do it?  And maybe some comments on the dividend as well.
So Gerard obviously you framed it correctly.
We all have to present a plan and have approval.
But in that context just to reinforce our primary -- first choice on using capital is for strong organic growth.
That's always the best long-term for your shareholders.
Dividend is certainly second and M&amp;A is third and repurchase is a distant fourth.
So to the extent that we continue to accrete capital at a fairly significant pace which we believe we will we think organic growth will be picking up so that will absorb some.
We would expect to be relatively aggressive on our dividend understanding that we have a range that we've stated in the 30% to 50% range.
We're not going to be rushing to get to the top of that because again I've said it before I'll say again having gone through a dividend decrease that's not the kind of thing you ever want to repeat again in your career.
So we'll be methodical about that.
But still given it's our second priority it's going to get proper emphasis.
And to the extent that there was not M&amp;A activity which I've indicated I think there will be to your point yes we would consider repurchase at the appropriate time.
There are times -- it just kind of depends on the stock price.
I mean it's an investment.
And if the price goes way down and if we have excess capital and are continuing to accrete excess capital and the internal rate return on that investment is superior to other options then certainly it moves to the top of the list.
Next question comes from Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question for you.
I know you said that you're going to not be relying as much on real estate lending in the future.
But as you and I both know the South is still about real estate and I don't think that's really going to change.
Can you just sort of give your parameters for particularly residential real estate lending in the future and if there are going to be any markets that you just flat-out avoid? Yes the ones we pretty surely will flat-out avoid Nancy is raw land investing.
We're not going to do much of that anymore.
But yes you said 2 or 3 years ago before anybody else did Nancy I think a very insightful point that the banks in the Southeast and the country for that matter particularly the Southeast has kind of grown up depending on real estate and that that was going to be a sea change for all of us.
I think you were way ahead of the game on that insight.
I think it will recover but it will never be back where it was to your point.
So you saw our last -- this last quarter 85% of our production was C&amp;I 15% was real estate.
That will improve some.
Because there is no ADC going on today.
There will be some.
There's very low CRE going on.
There will be some.
So where we will be if you want to draw kind of a band what is off limits is trying to turn farm land into commercial property.
I tell people all the time that with all the difference in the world on the value of a piece of land when you decide you're not going to be growing condominiums you will be growing corn.
So we've got this steeped in our culture.
Then to the -- on the other end of that band is multifamily today which is very attractive.
We believe there's a long-term sea change in terms of homeownership.
Therefore there's going to be very attractive investments for folks in rental properties for a long time.
That's a very appropriate kind of CRE lending for us to do.
So we're not getting out of the real estate lending business.
We'll be approaching it with an appropriate amount of energy given our long-term goals so I think that will be what it kind of will be.
And then -- but our majority emphasis is still going to be on C&amp;I particularly corporate and small business and then on the consumer side particularly on wealth.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my follow-up question would be this and it's kind of a follow-on to the first question.
What do you -- if you could just reiterate your thoughts about loan losses for the company over a cycle.
Have they changed dramatically? Or where does it all sort of shake out? Yes it has changed Nancy over the cycle.
I can remember 25 years ago we kind of thought our normalized range was 25 to 35.
That was in a different world.
But today because of mix changes in our business and because of the greater frankly inherent risk in the system looking forward -- and we think we're conservative on this but looking forward we think a normalized loss rate is in the 60 to 80 basis point range.
Now we also think that we'll be getting better yields.
When we were in that 25 to 35 range that was during the period of time as you know when we were going through that massive disintermediation from 80% market share down to 30% market share so price compression was horrendous.
And so we will have higher loss rate because it's kind of a new norm.
The old norm was -- it never was really 35 basis points.
As you know it was really -- it was higher than that.
It was just disguised.
So we have a more normalized I think long-term rate now and we will have better normalized yields.
And then with better mix that we will have in terms of consumer and C&amp;I and we think we'll have more predictable yields that will give us more predictable spreads.
Our next question comes from Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just -- I'm wondering what specifically is driving the increase in the MBS the GSEs there? And I heard your guidance or your color to a previous question saying that the securities portfolio should grow at about $35 billion.
Should we assume a similar step-up in the fourth quarter in securities yields both overall and within the MBS GSE book? Craig this is Daryl.
What I would tell you is I would say the security yields should probably be relatively flat on a link-quarter basis.
The main driver is really just closing the gap to get closer to complying with the Basel III liquidity.
If you go back a few quarters ago the LCR ratio definition of what's out there today we were significantly lower.
If you look at our ratio as of the end of September and not knowing how everybody else has done we're probably in the middle of the pack if not above average right now compared to our peers in the industry.
So we've closed the gap significantly in the last quarter or 2.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just my follow-up question within the specialized lending portfolio it's been growing very quickly.
You still have a pretty attractive yield there even though it's down a little bit.
Can you talk about what kind of loan product mix shift is going on underneath the surface there? Yes Craig this is Clarke.
So to remind you all that is as Kelly says a number of businesses ranging from a very low-risk component of our premium finance down to our nonprime auto finance so  it blends out we think at a very attractive risk-return relationship.
But what's occurring probably the fastest-growing segments within that group right now are our small-ticket equipment finance business which is smaller consumer and small business equipment lending.
Those have very attractive yields.
Those will probably be in the low- to mid-teens.
But it's not -- it's a more of a prime-based portfolio.
And then we also are relatively underpenetrated in the commercial leasing area.
And so we're growing that portfolio very rapidly.
That is a pretty low-risk portfolio.
It does have more C&amp;I-like yields.
Your next question comes from Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
First question is in terms of your reserve-to-loan ratio.
As you're bringing down the level of the reserve and then growing a loan portfolio that reserve-to-loan ratio is coming down.
I think it was this quarter about 2.20% 2.25%.
I'm wondering where you think you expect that to trough out as you sort of look out to sort of a normalized reserving policy.
Does that stop at 2%? Does that stop at 1.75%? Where does that sort of level off? Great question Ed and we don't know the final answer to that.
We certainly are very sensitive to pending additional regulatory and accounting guidance around those issues.
But looking at our own analytics around credit performance in the portfolios and particularly the improved risk profile of what we're putting on today we would still expect to see our reserves and allowance continue to go down.
And we think about it.
It could be ultimately 1.5 to 2x that long-term loss rate as kind of a floor.
But again it'll all depend upon how we feel about the risk what the accounting and regulatory guidance is.
And then frankly on top of all of that we're always going to remain a pretty conservative judgmental view of all that.
Research Division</strong> So if I'm hearing you correctly just -- and I know you don't want to sort of throw a number out there but you're saying a floor of maybe 2x that 60 to 80 basis point loss annualized normal loss outlook that you talked about.
That's right.
That's kind of our view.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess my second question is I think you outlined about that you think there's about $700 million to $750 million of annualized extra credit-related operating costs that are running through the income statement right now on sort of an annual basis and that ultimately should go away.
Any view on the pace of how quickly you think that goes away? Is that sort of an even decline over the next 2 years over the next 3 years? Or how are you thinking about that extra expense coming down? Great -- another great question.
We think the big driver as we said is the OREO balances.
And so the real answer to that question will be how quickly we can bring the OREO balances down and so the faster we can do that the more rapid you would see us earn into those benefits.
So to remain conservative we kind of view it right now that it will be a steady sequential kind of lead-in as we continue to improve the credit.
And our opportunity to accelerate that would be getting the OREO down faster.
Research Division</strong> Do you think the OREO starts to decline from here?  Or do you think it stays at this level over the next few quarters and then begins to decline? I think it definitely declines from here and we will use -- we'll look at it economically and use every opportunity we can that makes sense for us to bring it down on a more rapid fashion if possible with -- again the way we think about it is the big economic decision is if we can get the balances down that will more quickly reduce the future run rate expenses that makes sense to us.
So we definitely think it should go down from here.
Next question comes from Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> First a question for Kelly.
Kelly I'm just curious in terms of the new program that you're putting into place the reconceptualization process.
Does that potentially have any effect on what appears to have been over the last couple of quarters some really aggressive hiring in a couple of your businesses trying to drive the momentum of those businesses in a slow-growth environment? No Matt.
It would not directly impact that at all.
In fact in terms of the reconceptualization plan if that business leader presented a compelling proposal to ramp up even from what we've been doing in terms of that then we would feel fine with that.
So it's about making sure first of all that the expenses that produce revenue that they already have allocated are properly efficiently used.
And then secondly if they can make a proposal case for --  get [ph] even more revenue producers then that'll be fine.
And I wouldn't be a bit surprised in some of the ones like corporate that have done so well I wouldn't be a bit surprised to see us continue to invest in more revenue producers there even as we reconceptualize and maybe reduce in some other areas.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my follow-up question is for Clarke.
I guess just following up on Ed's question on OREO.
What's your sense of the market now for OREO transactions?  As the amount of foreclosed real estate comes down in your portfolio is there a greater propensity for BB&amp;T to think about just selling those assets and just trying to get that balance down as rapidly as possible because of the annualized operating cost benefit elsewhere in the income statement? Well I'll try to answer both parts of that question.
I actually spent a good bit of time of last night with folks that run our OREO units and our liquidation groups and asset management areas.
And interestingly enough despite all the challenges out there and uncertainty in the economy there's still pretty high investor appetite for these assets in general and there's plenty of liquidity.
And we have plenty of people calling us and have every opportunity we want to sell if the prices make sense.
And so what it comes down to mostly is the individual assets are just very market- and project-specific.
And so what we're going through right now is looking very deeply at our remaining inventory and looking at the relative cost to carry the risk around that versus the current pricing that's available or might be available.
And so what we would look at is a strong bias toward where it makes economic sense for us to be more aggressive in sales if it will have a greater leverage on reducing the run rate.
And we -- the good news is we think there's plenty of those opportunities out there.
And so we'll just have to take a look at each and every one of them and hopefully through that strategy we would see the balances reduce much faster.
I would remind everybody though that fourth quarter is a big cleanup period for a lot of players out there so we know a lot of inventory's out there and we're not going to participate in dumping assets as low prices just because everybody else is doing it at year end.
I would also tell you a positive is that we already have about $100 million under contract as we speak for the quarter.
So things are going well.
Next question comes from Betsy Graseck with MS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things on the same topic.
In the press release you indicated that management has adopted a more aggressive approach to reduce foreclosed real estate.
And that's in line with the comment you made about taking the write-down on some of the exposures that you have.
And I'm just wondering how are you deciding what kind of write-downs to take.
Is it just to get to a clearing price to sell? How much of a percentage decline in value did you bring the properties down that you took the write-downs on? Great question Betsy.
I'm -- just remind everybody we have a very methodical ongoing process around revaluations against assets using current appraisals and market intelligence.
And right now about -- our inventory is -- appraisals are within 6 months current and we actually revalued 25% of the inventory this quarter alone so it's a constant process.
So what you saw us do this quarter with the extra write-downs was specifically look at individual assets to your point and try to mark to what we believe was more of a liquidity discounts to clear those at the kind of pace we're talking about.
And so that's why you saw the expenses go up a little bit.
Had we not done that it would have sequentially come down.
So we think they're marked at a pretty attractive rate right now given our strategy of selling more quickly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the follow-up is on Page 9 of the slide deck.
You've got the inflows to OREO at $118 million this quarter.
Where do you think that trends next couple of quarters? We're hopeful that you're going to see similar levels or less.
So our whole strategy would be to take in less through title.
And through our kind of more aggressive workout strategies on the front end we'll deal with more of resolving the credits on the front-end level through short sales note sales or just workouts with the borrower.
So we're going to avoid foreclosure as a last resort.
And we think that alone is going to bring those inflows down given that we're also seeing less inflows to nonaccruing loans anyway.
Research Division</strong> There's a sharp decline from 2Q.
I was just wondering if there was expected to be some bounce-up or not.
We certainly hope and don't expect that you would see a bounce-up.
So the rate of inflows or the rate of decline from there is less certain at this point but we certainly don't expect it to pop up.
Our next question comes from Brian Foran with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> On the $450 million problem loan sale just -- and I apologize if I missed this but did you say how much of that came out of MPA versus how much of that came out of criticized but not on nonperforming? Yes Brian actually all of those were actually nonperforming loans in OREO so it was all NPA.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then so just thinking through the roll-forward to next quarter if you hadn't sold those loans I guess NPAs would have been flattish this quarter.
You've got the guidance for 5% to 10% down next quarter.
So does that mean you have pretty good visibility that the inflows are going to take another step down? Or is there some other roll-forward that I'm missing? Well again and we'd mentioned before that in our commercial portfolio based on all the strategies we used whether it's curing the accounts whether it's through resolution through asset sale or working it out with the borrower or charge-offs or movements to OREO all that combination we need to be under $500 million in commercial inflows to see some organic reduction in the NPAs.
And so we certainly are bringing those inflows down and are hopeful and expect them to come down further in Q4.
But even if they wouldn't were not to have come down through the resolution strategies that we're using we're very comfortable with our guidance of the 5% to 10%.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Right because the sales aren't going to go to 0.
The loan market share comment I guess one of the pushbacks I've gotten is on an end-of-period linked-quarter basis your loan growth on the commercial side and the overall side is kind of in line with the H.8 [ph] data.
Can you just help us elaborate on the market share gains? Are there seasonalities in your book that like especially lending and stuff that we've got to take into account? Or is it more in the pipelines you can see building?  Or just kind of how you're measuring the market share gains you're generating? I think one of the biggest things you might be missing in that data that we think about is that we absolutely do not participate in the leveraged lending area and so that data would include that subset.
So if you had intelligence around more of the core lending like we do we're quite confident that we're moving and we know we're moving market share because the majority of the credits that we're extending are refi-ing other lenders so...
The other thing Brian is to keep in mind that the -- if you look at the 4.3% growth versus the 7.5% growth adjusted when we're talking about moving market share we're talking about it in the markets we're participating in.
I mean certainly the runoff portfolios dilute the absolute number.
So we're thinking in the markets that we're actually participating in that's where we have to grow is visibility.
Clarke says when we talk to our producers that we know who the competitors are then we're fairly certain that we're all going to move [ph] market share.
Our next question comes from Chris Mutascio with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Daryl 2 quick questions.
Do you all recognize gain on sale on mortgages at the time of lock-in or the time the loans are funded? Chris it's all fair value.
So all the applications that we took through the pipeline it's reflected in the third quarter numbers.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second thing I know your insurance commissions are seasonal.
And so I expected them to be down this quarter but they're down year-over-year.
Can you give me more color on the negative trajectory on a year-over-year basis on insurance? Yes.
So what's happened year-over-year is we're continuing to be in a and as you -- as they [ph] described it a soft market.
And so while the rate of decline in premiums over the year has declined it is still down probably 5% to 7% over last year.
Now we will tell you in the last 90 days the feedback I get is we're beginning to see some hardening in the market particularly in the wholesale space.
We are also getting anecdotal feedback from the insurance companies that because they have seen degradation in their earnings particularly coming out of their investment portfolios their ability to accrete capital going forward is stretched.
And so they're beginning to think about how they're going to produce decent returns themselves.
So while it's conjecture on my part I think we are at right at the cusp of beginning to see some real hardening in the insurance market.
But we are actually moving in terms of numbers of accounts.
When we look at the marketplace we feel like we're clearly moving market share because our business is not going down as much as the overall market but the overall market is still softening.
Our final question comes from Christopher Marinac with FIG partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kelly just observing the large deposit growth this quarter are there ever examples where you tell your staff not to take new customers or that you want to avoid certain type of deposit inflows? No we don't do it exactly that way Chris.
But what we do it is with price.
We basically just -- when we are experiencing significantly more deposit growth than we need from a lending point of view we just scratch it down more aggressively the price and that basically takes care of it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Do you have any outlook on whether the same deposit inflows are possible the next few months? I think they are very possible with the exception of the substantial bulk-up we did in corporate and public funds consistent with our Basel III strategy.
So when you look in our numbers when you look at the CD category I think about that coming down materially but the other numbers would look probably pretty consistent.
Thank you for your questions and we appreciate your participation in today's conference call.
If you need clarification on any of the information presented please give us a call in the Investor Relations department.
Have a great day.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the BB&amp;T Corporation First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Ms.
Tamera Gjesdal Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for BB&amp;T Corporation.
Thank you.
You may begin Tamera.
Thank you Alicia and good morning everyone and thanks to all of our listeners for joining us today.
This call is being broadcast on the Internet from our website at bbt.com.
We have with us today Kelly King Daryl Bible and Clarke Starnes who will review the results for the fourth quarter of 2011 as well as provide a look ahead.
We will be referencing a slide presentation during our remarks today.
A copy of the presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental financial information are available on the BB&amp;T website.
After Kelly Daryl and Clarke have made their remarks we will pause to have Alicia come back on the line and explain how you may participate in the Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin let me remind you BB&amp;T does not provide public earnings predictions or forecasts.
However there may be statements made during the course of this call that express management's intentions beliefs or expectations.
BB&amp;T's actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to be materially different is contained in Slide 2 of our presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
Our presentation includes certain non-GAAP disclosures.
Please refer to Page 2 and the appendix of our presentation for the appropriate reconciliations to GAAP.
I will now turn over the call to Kelly.
Thank you Tamera.
Good morning everybody and thanks for joining us this morning.
And I would say overall for this quarter relative to the economic and industry challenges it was clearly in my view an outstanding performance year for our company.
Just a few highlights and then we'll just drill down on some of the numbers for you.
On the earnings front net income was a strong $391 million up 88% versus fourth quarter of '10.
EPS totaled $0.55 up 88% versus fourth quarter and if then annualized 23% increase from the $0.52 end of last quarter so we really think this is the strongest quarterly earnings in more than 3 years.
On the revenue side looking at it from an FTE basis net interest income was $1.5 billion up 9.6% annualized over the linked quarter.
That was supported by strong loan growth and larger security balances.
Net operating revenues totaled $2.3 billion which was up an annualized 11.8% versus the third quarter so a good solid revenue performance.
Our loan growth we felt very good about.
It was strong and it was broad-based.
Average loan growth was 7.3% annualized versus the third quarter.
Average loan growth if you exclude ADC and our covered and other acquired portfolios was up 10.1% annualized versus the third so strong over there.
And importantly the pace of growth accelerated during the quarter.
That growth was really focused in C&amp;I mortgage and direct retail so it's fairly broad-based.
We did continue to have progress in our mix improvement in the deposit area.
I would point out we feel very comfortable now relative to our Basel III liquidity requirements.
Average noninterest-bearing deposits increased $1.8 billion or a very strong 31.3% annualized in the fourth versus the third.
And total deposits increased $6.9 billion or 23.7% annualized versus the third.
So strong deposit performance as you've seen for the last several quarters.
In the credit area we had overall continued strong improvement in the credit area.
As you'll recall we'd mentioned that we had decided to execute a more aggressive foreclosed property strategy in the fourth quarter.
And so as a result our NPAs decreased $519 million or 17.5% which is better than the guidance that we had indicated.
And importantly our foreclosed property area decreased by $408 million or 41.4% so very strong performance there.
So let's drill down a little bit into some of the numbers.
If you go with me on the slide -- this Slide 4 we did have a few unusual items this quarter.
I'm sorry about the noise but we think it's all net positive.
So we had net securities gains of $103 million pretax which was a positive $0.09 per share.
Due to the more aggressive disposition strategy that we took we did have additional OREO valuation adjustments of $220 million which was a negative net earnings of $0.19.
We did have some small merger-related charges related to BankAtlantic and some charges related to our expense optimization strategy project.
That was $16 million before tax so that was about $0.01.
And then we did have some losses and write-downs to conclude our previously announced NPL disposition strategy.
Recall we have moved earlier last year some NPLs into held-for-sale.
Glad to say that category is now down to 0 after an $11 million pretax charge there which was about a negative $0.01.
And then we did have a small amount in the Visa indemnification charge.
You will recall in 2008 we as many others had a sell of the Visa stock and so we had an $11 million pretax charge there which was about $0.01.
So giving you a little color with regard to loan growth.
If you go to the deck Slide 5 I'd say that overall our loan production and growth accelerated and it was broad-based.
You will see that our C&amp;I grew 11% fourth to third annualized.
Other CRE continued our strategic -- strategically directed decline of 8.2%.
Sales finance was 4.1%.
Revolving credit was strong at 9.4%.
Mortgage was 26%.
Now other lending subsidiaries was down 1.1% fourth to third annualized.
But remember we have a lot of seasonality there.
So insurance premium finance business was down but the other subsidiaries were up nicely.
For example equipment finance was up 21.9%.
Grandbridge mortgage was up 23.7%.
Sheffield which is a small equipment finance business was up 23.6%.
So that was good as well.
Very pleased with our direct retail which was up 11.2%.
I would point out that's largely first lien home equity lines and financing home improvements and that kind of thing.
So if you look at our subtotal of loans up 10.1% excluding the impact of the ADC and covered runoff even if you include those it was up 7.3% which was better than our 4% to 6% guidance.
So we felt pretty good about loan growth.
A little more detail on that.
The momentum kind of accelerated during the quarter.
So end-of-period loans was up $2.8 billion which was annualized 10.5%.
The pipeline remains robust.
I want to emphasize that we remain focused on high quality granular diverse portfolios.
We have not changed our strategy in terms of how we pursue corporate loans or any other kinds of loans.
So if you think about it we've said 2 or 3 years we've talked about our corporate strategy our wealth strategy our specialized lending strategy.
These strategies are really beginning to pay off and so we've had the best loan growth in 3 years.
Looking forward we've been expecting the first quarter loan growth to be in the 5% to 7% range and that's contingent on what happens with the economy.
But based on what we are seeing in the economy which is kind of slow positive growth no double dip just kind of slow positive 2% 2.5% kind of real GDP growth based on that we would expect that kind of loan growth.
So if you look at the deposit area it is yet again another strong deposit area.
We're real pleased about the progress we've made in diversifying our mix and at the same time lowering our costs.
So if you look at our noninterest-bearing deposits fourth to third annualized is 31.3%.
I'll tell you DDA is just continuing to flood into the banking industry not just us but to everybody.
That's not necessarily a good sign.
It means people are still hoarding a lot of cash.
But still it's very strong and gives us really good base as loans begin to grow going forward.
Interest checking is up 9.7%.
Money market and savings is up 24.6%.
CDs were up by 28.3% not quite as strong as last quarter but still very strong.
But you can expect to see that coming down some now that we feel that we've kind of got our Basel III liquidity kind of where we want it.
So total deposits is up 23.7% which is obviously very very strong.
Very pleased that our interest-bearing deposit cost decreased to 0.56% compared to 0.65%.
We think we still have some momentum on the downside going forward with regard to that.
Growth in CDs picked up despite a 16 basis point decrease in cost in CDs so we've bring -- brought the costs down had good growth and kept the maturity low with average maturity of 13 months.
So we right now we're looking forward on deposits.
We expect solid growth but we would expect to see a more moderate deposit growth as our CD portfolio would expand at a slower pace but we'll continue to focus on reductions in aggregate costs.
So now with that let me turn it to Clarke for some color on the credit side.
Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
I'm very pleased to report another quarter of improved trends in our credit performance.
We're particularly pleased with the execution of our strategy to more aggressively reduce foreclosed property balances and a significant decline in total NPAs which was driven in part by these efforts.
On Slide 7 you can see the substantial reduction in NPAs at 17.5%.
This was significantly better as Kelly said in the 5% to 10% guidance we gave last quarter and represents the seventh consecutive quarter with lower NPAs.
It's also noteworthy that NPAs declined approximately $1.5 billion or 38% in 2011 to the lowest level in 3 years.
Our efforts to reduce commercial NPAs were also noteworthy for the quarter including held-for-sale commercial NPLs were down 8.1% on a linked-quarter basis and we also experienced lower level of commercial watch list credits nonaccrual inflows TDRs early delinquencies and OREOs so a very very good quarter on the commercial side.
While we did see some seasonal impact on our credit performance in the residential mortgage and specialized lending portfolios the problem levels were well within our projections and should move back down in the first quarter which is consistent with our historical experience.
Our focus on rapidly reducing NPAs remains a priority.
We've previously discussed with you all that there are we believe about $700 million in annualized direct credit cost savings that we can realize if NPAs are reduced to more normal levels.
We currently expect to realize a considerable portion of that benefit in 2012.
We'd ask you to remember the $700 million excludes expected declines in the provision expense.
For the first quarter we expect NPAs to decline in the range of 5% to 10% assuming the economy holds up.
We would note this guidance excludes any special foreclosed property sales which we think are very possible given our new more aggressive disposition strategy.
If you look with me on Slide 8 we explained last quarter that we were moving to a more aggressive strategy to reduce foreclosed property balances.
These balances dropped a significant 41.4% as a result.
Our efforts were focused on minimizing inflows which you can see we were successful at doing over the last 2 quarters.
Inflows were down 57% compared to the fourth quarter of last year.
This is very important because of the length of time it takes to move assets to the foreclosure process.
And I'm also very pleased that we've been able to reduce inflows without negatively impacting charge-offs.
We're also focused on more rapidly selling existing foreclosed properties with a good sales quarter in Q4 at $255 million.
In addition we have approximately $100 million in the pipeline and are very confident we'll have a strong sales result in first quarter 2012.
In connection with our change to a shorter-hold disposition strategy we did record a significant $220 million liquidity mark which was concentrated purposely in the most difficult land-related assets.
We're confident this will allow us to move these properties out more quickly and substantially reduce foreclosed property expenses in 2012.
I would note that our foreclosed property balances without consideration of the mark were down 19.1% in Q4 very strong results I think.
As we said last quarter this effort will substantially reduce our foreclosed property expense in 2012 so we expect those expenses to trend downward throughout 2012 as the properties are liquidated and to average less than $100 million per quarter which includes both write-downs and maintenance costs.
If you'll turn to Slide 9 you'll note that our charge-offs in Q4 excluding covered loans were 1.46% about flat with last quarter and consistent with our previous guidance.
For the full year net charge-offs were 1.59% excluding covered down from 2.59% last year so I think a tremendous year in terms of lower loss experienced while generating $1.5 million reduction in our NPAs.
So I think it's really a strong accomplishment for our workout teams.
Looking forward we expect total charge-offs to be approximately 1.30% in Q1 excluding covered and to trend lower thereafter through the year.
Finally if you look at Slide 10 due to our improved credit performance and the quality of recent originations our provision expense was lower in Q4 versus Q3.
This also resulted in a reduction in our allowance.
If you exclude the allowance for covered assets and then reserve for unfunded commitments it was about $135 million which is pretty similar to reductions experienced over the last couple of quarters.
While our loan loss reserves did decrease this quarter our coverage ratio of nonperforming loans remained strong at 113% and that's pretty consistent with Q3.
While we remain conservative with respect to the allowance because of issues -- lingering issues in the economy and all the uncertainty I would point out that recent credit vintages are performing very well and are creating some downward pressure in our allowance modeling.
So continued improvement in credit quality is likely to allow for further reductions in provision expense.
In summary we're very pleased with the solid pace of credit improvement this quarter.
Given the successful execution of our NPA reduction strategies we're well positioned to benefit from lower levels of NPAs and credit-related costs in 2012.
And with that let me turn it over to Daryl for his comments.
Thank you Clarke and good morning everyone.
I'm going to take the next few minutes to discuss net interest margin our securities portfolio expansion fee income noninterest expense capital and our segment reporting.
Continuing on Slide 11.
Net interest margin for Q4 came in strong at 4.02%.
It was down 7 basis points in line with prior guidance.
The decrease resulted from the runoff of higher-yielding loans being replaced with lower-yielding originations a decrease in balances and yields uncovered loans and a greater proportion of investment securities in our earning assets.
The margin continues to benefit from lower-funding costs particularly interest-bearing deposits which decreased 9 basis points to 56 basis points and lower NPAs.
Net interest income increased 9.6% annualized or $35 million on a linked-quarter basis.
This was driven by increased balances in both loans and securities.
Net interest income related to assets from the Colonial transaction decreased $31 million.
Adjusting for the provision for covered loans and the increase in the FDIC loss share offset net revenues decreased $15 million due to the impact of covered assets.
With regard to margin outlook we expect it to be approximately 3.90% plus or minus 5 basis points in Q1.
The primary drivers for the decline are: continued low rate environment continued runoff of the covered asset portfolio and a decline in investment yields as a result of a full impact on the Q4 investment sales.
The margin will continue to benefit from a decrease in interest-bearing deposit costs primarily in the CD portfolio.
We remain asset-sensitive and are positioned for rising rates.
Turning to Slide 12.
During Q4 we purchased $9.4 billion of securities consisting primarily of a mixture of Ginnie Mae securities as well as other agency MBS.
The purchase of these securities and significant growth in deposits resulted in a strong -- stronger Basel III liquidity position.
We continue to maintain a very low-risk investment portfolio with approximately 99% guaranteed by government agencies.
Additionally approximately 28% is variable rate.
The effective duration is 3.3 years.
We expect the portfolio to remain relatively stable in 2012.
Turning to Slide 13.
Our fee income ratio decreased to 38.4% in Q4 from 39.3% in Q3.
The decrease was primarily due to lower check card fees from interchange rules lower investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions due to market conditions and lower volume and higher revenues driven by net interest income.
Insurance income in Q4 increased to $254 million driven by stronger performance in P&amp;C and our Q4 agency acquisitions.
Mortgage banking income was up in Q4 to $135 million compared to $123 million last quarter.
The increase was due to higher production volume and larger gains on sales.
The FDIC loss share income net improved $58 million due to the provision for covered loan offset and the cumulative impact of cash flow reassessments.
The balance at the end of the quarter for accretable yield decreased to $1.8 billion from $2.1 billion in Q3.
The increase in other income includes the net increase of $26 million from lower write-downs on nonperforming loans held for sale $13 million in higher income related to post-employment benefits offset in personnel costs and $7 million in higher income on venture capital investments.
We expect the fee income ratio to be in the upper 30% range in Q1.
Looking on Slide 14.
Our efficiency ratio improved to 53.5% compared to 54.6% in Q3.
Personnel expense increased $8 million or 4.7% annualized.
This relates to higher post-employment benefit expense.
FTEs were up 90 in Q4 due to insurance acquisitions and up a total of 420 for the full year.
When you adjust FTEs for these acquisitions they would have been down 120 compared to Q3.
The increase in FTEs over last year is largely comprised of revenue producers and investment services wealth management mortgage lending direct retail lending and insurance.
Foreclosed property expense increased $178 million.
This is largely due to the increase in the valuation adjustment in connection with our more aggressive OREO disposition strategy.
As Clarke noted these costs will come down significantly in 2012 as we sell OREO properties.
Occupancy and equipment expense was slightly higher due to real estate tax accrual adjustment.
Professional services decreased due to lower legal fees.
Other noninterest expenses decreased $9 million or 16.5% annualized.
The improvement includes a $16 million reduction related to the loss on sale of leveraged leases in Q3 partially offset by an $11 million increase in the indemnification reserve in Q4 related to the 2008 sale of Visa stock.
Excluding foreclosed property expense noninterest expense would have increased 1% versus 2010.
Looking to 2012 we expect noninterest expense to decline based on our outlook for lower credit-related costs and anticipated savings from our expense optimization strategy.
As a reminder we expect Q1 personnel expenses to be elevated due to seasonally high comp and benefits and the pension expense.
Excluding the true up from our state tax return and discrete items the Q4 effective tax rate was in line with expectations at 20%.
Looking forward as earnings continue to improve our corporate tax rate will increase to 25% in 2012.
Turning to Slide 15.
Our capital ratios declined slightly due to faster earning asset growth but remained very strong.
Tier 1 common is 9.7%.
Tier 1 capital is 12.4%.
Leverage capital remains strong at 9%.
Tangible common remains healthy at 6.9% and total capital is 15.7%.
Our internal capital generation continues to provide significant financial flexibility for a capital deployment in the following order: organic growth dividends strategic opportunities and share buyback.
In terms of our CCAR submission we feel good about our plan which is consistent with these priorities.
Our current estimate for Tier 1 common under Basel III remains at 8.8% flat with Q3.
We believe this will meet our capital requirements once the U.S.
capital rules are published.
Turning to Slide 16.
We have added new disclosures on our segments.
Here are a few highlights: Community bank net income totaled $49 million and excluding the OREO mark was $186 million.
The main drivers include loan growth improved credit quality deposit growth and improved deposit mix.
Average retail loans grew $597 million or 7.8% compared to Q4 2010.
We also experienced solid growth in several payment categories: Merchant services was up 21%.
Treasury services credit card and international services also experienced solid revenue growth in Q4.
Turning to Slide 17.
Residential mortgage net income totaled $36 million.
Linked-quarter revenue growth increased due to $18.2 million of gains on loan sales increased revenue of higher production on $2.9 billion.
Additionally like-quarter net income growth was driven by lower provision as credit quality in this segment continues to improve.
Mortgage repurchase activity remains at very low levels with a net increase of only $4 million in our repurchase reserve.
Turning to Slide 18.
Dealer financial services which primarily originates indirect prime and non-prime auto loans through franchise dealers had net income of $48 million in Q4 as well as strong loan demand across all segments.
Additionally annual losses at Regional Acceptance are at historical lows and our prime auto losses remained very low at 22 basis points.
On Slide 19 specialized lending experienced strong quarter with net income of $63 million and an increase in operating margin to 45% up from 38% a year ago.
Sheffield Financial our small ticket equipment lending group generated significant portfolio growth of 37% through expanded financing relationships.
Grandbridge Real Estate Capital our commercial banking sub had record low production of $4.8 billion.
Moving on to Slide 20.
Insurance services generated $26 million in net income driven by organic growth from McGriff Seibels &amp; Williams and our recent acquisitions.
Our acquisitions of Precept Liberty Benefits and Atlantic Risk closed in the fourth quarter.
Precept and Liberty Benefits will help define our employment benefit strategy with the anticipated health care reforms.
For 2012 we anticipate strategic and modest organic growth.
Turning to Slide 21.
Financial services generated $84 million in net income primarily driven by corporate banking and wealth management.
They had loan growth of 50% and 34% respectively in Q4.
This segment's operating margin improved to 45% from 40% a year ago.
Finally our corporate banking energy team established in early 2011 originated 28 new energy client relationships.
With that let me turn it back over to Kelly for closing remarks and Q&amp;A.
Thank you Daryl.
And as you can see overall it was a strong quarter for us.
We continue to invest to drive revenue and loan growth.
The underlying fundamentals I think in our loan and deposit business are exceptionally strong.
We are continuing to methodically and successfully accomplish our diversification and risk mitigation strategies.
We are reconceptualizing our businesses to drive our revenue and expense optimization process.
And we believe we will continue to provide the best value proposition in our markets.
So if you think about the economy -- the economy as we've said kind of a slow but positive kind of growth rate going forward we're pretty optimistic about our performance in 2012.
I would point out that since our company started in 1872 this is our 140th birthday and while we are very proud of our heritage we believe that our best days are ahead.
We'd be glad now to answer your questions.
Thank you Kelly.
Before we move to the question-and-answer segment of the conference call I'll ask that we use the same process as we have in the past.
You'll be limited to one primary and one follow-up question.
If you do have further questions please reenter the queue.
And now I'll ask Alicia to come back on the line and explain how to submit your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Craig Siegenthaler from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First just on the loan growth guidance.
If we assume a 0% point-to-point loan growth in the first quarter we're actually going to back into a average loan growth number higher than your guidance.
What I'm trying to figure out is is your guidance more on the conservative side? Or are you expecting a deceleration growth in the first quarter? Craig I would say we are trying to be relatively conservative.
It's really hard -- to be frank it's hard to figure out exactly where the loan market is.
There's been a lot of commentary so far this season about really strong robust loan growth kind of nationally which would imply the economy is really booming.
We do not see that.
We think the economy is kind of sluggish.
It is moving forward but it's kind of sluggish methodical kind of growth.
What we are seeing is clearly movement of market share to our company.
As we've talked about in the past we have some very unusual opportunities in the corporate banking space in wealth strategy and our specialized lending businesses.
So we think that our growth is going to be relatively strong but it's still kind of hard to figure exactly what's happening to the economy so we're trying to be somewhat conservative.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just a quick follow-up on OREO.
If I go back and kind of look at what you said at the prior conferences in the fourth quarter we knew OREO disposition activity was going to be high.
I didn't know the impact to the bottom line was going to be of this type of magnitude.
I'm wondering did losses on some of these properties materialize more towards kind of the end of the fourth quarter or what kind of drove that? Craig this is Clarke.
What drove our thinking was not necessarily any change in our loss experience.
As we told you guys all along we believe we were capital strong and had good earnings power and wanted to work with our clients and try to bridge as many as we can and as many of these assets to a better market.
So all along we have been on a very prescriptive methodical process of revaluing these properties and marking them down to the appraised value on a consistent basis so nothing's changed there.
What's changed and what's reflected in the mark is management decision to change our holding period assumptions substantially.
So we're trying to move away from more of a longer-hold view for us to a shorter-hold view and this mark reflects what we think's a good liquidity discount to entice a loan holder to take these assets over the next couple of quarters or so.
And the big economic benefit for us is that the run rate going forward in the foreclosed property expense is substantially better than the present value of this mark.
So we feel very good about the strategy and think that it'll benefit us substantially in 2012.
We'll go next to Brian Foran from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I guess on the credit the one follow-up I had was can you give the NPA inflows that you've given in prior quarters? And then also on the OREO when you talked about the 5% to 10% decline not contemplating any additional special dispositions just remind us what kind of the baseline run rate of normal OREO sales would be without any special dispositions? Brian this is Clarke again.
Total inflows for the quarter were up marginally primarily due to the little bit of seasonal influence in our residential mortgage and our non-prime auto side which we would expect to see in the fourth quarter and that should come down in the first.
But what we're real pleased about is our commercial NPLs were actually down slightly for the quarter.
They've come down rapidly to a level that we think is much more manageable to reduce NPLs on an organic basis.
So even if the current rate of inflow is on commercial we would expect another good quarter in Q1 in organic NPL reduction in our commercial book and our total book as well.
As far as the 5% to 10% NPA guidance excluding any special sales that would assume a normal level of sales based on our previous strategy in about the $200 million range.
So if we can do better than that we should do better.
Research Division</strong> And then on net interest income I guess just kind of putting everything together if we've got loan growth in the high single digits the margin coming down and the securities book flat I guess the 2 related questions I had was do you still kind of think the margin ultimately will shake out in the 375 range as the accretable yield benefit steps down but the core margin expands via loan growth and funding cost reductions? And just kind of overall dollars of net interest income -- or I mean does everything just kind of shake out to flat next year as these things offset? Or where do you think net interest income will trend as you look forward? We believe -- I mean if you look at the forecast that we have pulled together our net interest income for the year will be up due to the loan growth that we're seeing and achieving also with the continued drop in our deposit costs which will continue to benefit.
If you actually look at our core margin this past quarter and you basically net out the repricing of the loans and you charge that against the benefit on the deposits it really just came down due to the covered assets runoff and lower yields there.
So as 2012 rolls out we feel very comfortable the net interest income will be up but margins will be down.
As far as whether 370 or so is the right number really depends on how long interest rates stay down.
The longer they stay down the more pressure that is but we feel very good about 2012 and have net interest income up even though margins will be dropping.
Research Division</strong> And just the up is relative to full year '11 or relative to the fourth quarter run rate? Full year '11.
We'll go next to Todd Hagerman from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Clarke I just want to follow up on your comments and just kind of make sure I understand clearly in terms of the OREO.
As you mentioned those environmental-related costs coming down from the $700 million to assuming kind of a $400 million mark with a $100 million run rate but I guess what I wanted clarification on is if I look at the delinquency levels in the report delinquencies are up quarter-on-quarter.
And so I'm just trying to think about how I reconcile with delinquencies up that the bucket or the pressure on OREO still seems to be there.
So I'm just trying to figure out why necessarily why that number is coming down so meaningfully over the course of the year relative to what we've seen in the past several quarters.
Well fair question Todd.
I think a couple of points: One is our inflows are still well controlled and overall directionally coming down so the big risk in OREO is the commercial portfolio.
And as I said the delinquencies actually went down in the commercial book linked quarter.
The only increase we had in delinquency for the quarter was some seasonal impact in resi mortgage and specialized lending effectively.
So we don't see a delinquency pickup that would increase our inflows and put pressure on the OREO side there.
So given all that we think with the rate of inflows how we're managing those not to take title into OREO so our loss assumptions assume the impact of mitigation against new inflows in the OREO so we're not taking title as much.
So the combination of the normal sales and the controlled inflows we think will allow us to achieve that result.
Todd something else you got to keep in mind.
We're kind of in a new phase with regard to delinquencies.
Delinquencies are really low I mean just absolutely.
And so while you may have a little seasonal variation from quarter-to-quarter you don't think about a small change in delinquencies today the way you might have thought about it 2 years ago because we're counting on a somewhat normal kind of phase with regard to delinquencies.
We'd certainly have the same kind of correlation to OREO flows as it would have had 2 years ago.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then I guess just maybe Kelly just an update in terms of your optimization strategy just in terms of you didn't provide a lot of quantification last quarter.
I'm just wondering if you're willing to kind of give an update relative to your guidance in terms of the lower expenses for 2012 and how that fits in.
Yes Todd so we're really engaged in that process now.
It's going extraordinarily well.
I think I mentioned before that we're using a process whereby all of our business leaders have been asked to take some time and develop a reconceptualization plan of their business basically a clean sheet of paper approach.
They've been asked to and have presented their findings to a subgroup of our executive team led by Daryl.
Most of the cases they presented great plans.
In a few cases we sent them back to do a little bit more work.
But I'd say the overall results that are coming in are very pleasing and will be executed on methodically as we go through this year and into next year.
We have very intentionally not named some big deal and put some big number on it Todd because we feel very strongly and it's proven to be true that for our culture if you give our business leaders the opportunity to do their jobs the challenge that -- it's a tough environment we need to control our expenses and that requires a reconceptualization of the business but not nail them with a top down number they'll come back with even better numbers and that's exactly what's happening.
So it's going extraordinarily well.
We're very pleased.
It will have positive impact as we think about our efficiency ratio as we go forward and that's what we're primarily focused on.
We'll go next to Ed Najarian from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> This is Josh on for Ed.
I just had a quick question.
You recognized over $100 million of securities gains in 4Q yet your securities portfolio yield appears to have gone up across-the-board.
Am I correct in assuming that means that the weighted average life on the securities book went up? And if so by how much? So John (sic) [Josh] if you remember the last earnings call we had we said the duration of the portfolio was 2.7 and now we're at 3.3.
So you are correct in that it is a little bit longer but we feel very comfortable at the 3.3 range.
We'll go next to Greg Ketron from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Question regarding loan growth.
As you look at commercial loan growth up nearly $1 billion maybe some color on the sources whether it's corporate loans core commercial syndications and what you're seeing on the spread side? Greg we're -- it's pretty broad-based.
We talked about in the past that really about 3 years ago we launched a kind of aggressive new direction with regard to corporate lending looking at corporate lending from a national perspective focusing on the vertical industry specializations that we have focusing on relationship base keeping it very granular.
And we've been executing on that with darn near perfection.
And so a fair amount of it is corporate.
We are getting good growth in the commercial spaces.
We are getting pretty good pickup in our small business.
Now that's not dramatically material in terms of the total business really important long term in terms of the direction.
It is not what you call syndicated lending.
I mean a lot of these companies I think today are buying large slices of big deals.
We are in deals where we're participating with other companies and so you can technically define it as syndication but the difference for us is a we're keeping our granular focus very disciplined.
We look at situations -- I see them all the time and it really surprises me where we might hold $35 million to $50 million in a large deal and similar-sized peers would hold substantially more.
We're just not going to do that.
We just think diversification is an important lesson everybody should have learned from the last recession and we're staying focused on that.
So what we do is contingent to our relationship banking where we go kick the tires talk to their CEO talk to their CFO understand the business just feet on the ground in the client's office and it's been very successful.
But let me pause and see if Clarke would add any other color to that.
Absolutely.
And Greg as far as the spread question what we're seeing like everybody else is that spreads are clearly coming down probably in the middle market side over the last year or so.
We've seen pressure maybe 50 to 75 basis points but still are all in marginal spreads right now on that type of business are still in the $200 million to $240 million range which is pretty consistent with the marketplace.
And then as Kelly said we benefit from a lot of smaller -- small business and community bank-sized lending.
It gives us a total for example C&amp;I yield is nearly 4% so good mix there.
But as Kelly said we're not -- we've not changed our risk appetite at all around middle market side.
80% of the syndicated deals we participate in are our own facility sizes there are 750 or less.
It's within industries that we have vertical specialty in.
A lot of the growth is coming in our newer markets like Texas expansion in Alabama and Florida and then things like our new industry segment for energy so that would become some of the highlights where we're getting the C&amp;I growth.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate the color.
On the -- one last question.
On residential mortgage you committed about $1.2 billion to the balance sheet in the fourth quarter.
If you could comment maybe on type of product and whether we could see this continued commitment on into '2012? Yes Greg you're right.
We had -- as the -- particularly the ADC and the CRE portfolios have been in conscious runoff over the last year or so we've augmented the balance sheet with -- by retaining what's new for us as we've been retaining our 10- and 15-year product.
We've always portfolio-ed our ARMs and the jumbos and our affordable products so that's not changed.
So right now the mix of what's going on in the balance sheet is about 20% ARMs 20% jumbo and about 40% conventional -- I'm sorry 40% jumbo I apologize.
And then what's in the conventional side is primarily 10 and 15.
We're not holding any 30s.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you expect that kind of commitment to continue into 2012? Well Kelly might want to speak to that.
I think you'll us probably reconsider that as our targets are to see that the ADC will continue to run off.
But we're also -- would expect however that we'd begin to stabilize the other CRE as we are focused and are interested on very high quality income property lending as asset.
If that portfolio stabilizes then we would probably see us later in the year consider pulling back on what we're putting on the balance sheet on the resi side.
We'll go next to Gerard Cassidy from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Clarke can you share with us over the years when you go back and look at BB&amp;T's credit ratios it was quite common to have a nonperforming asset ratio of about 1% and net charge-offs below 40 basis points.
I know the mix of the business now has changed.
What do you think normalization will be on the nonperforming asset ratio and net charge-offs in the future? And when do you think you'll get there? Great question Gerard and we've talked a lot about that.
Kelly's mentioned on several calls the diversification plan and derisking strategy we've had over the last 3 years away from so much C&amp;D concentration more C&amp;I lending more non-real estate consumers so you've seen us consciously grow in those areas so that we could produce lower volatility in the future in our default risk.
But you may have higher expected losses than we had had historically.
So what we think about is we're trying to build a target portfolio mix that would hopefully achieve maybe a long-term loss rate in the 60 to 80 basis point range but much less volatility during stress periods.
So I think that would give us a good risk return trade-off.
And I think if we can do that then our nonperforming asset target would actually be pretty similar to that 1% earned or a level that you spoke about.
LLC Research Division</strong> Would you -- is it fair to think because of the underwriting standards of the last 3 years that the actual net charge-offs when these loans season could be below what you think is going to eventually be normal? Absolutely.
I would suggest to you that the type of originations we've been successfully doing over the last couple of years are very very conservative.
The consumer portfolios are all full docked low loan-to-value high FICO strata and the commercial originations as Kelly said very very strong underwriting very conservative exposure level.
So I would agree with that.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then finally on the C&amp;I loan growth you guys obviously had strong growth.
Was there any benefit or did you guys win any business that maybe normally would have went to the foreign banks? We're hearing some of the other large regional banks talk about some success that they're having in the syndicated area.
And of the large C&amp;I loan growth how much was syndicated-type lending? I'll give you part of that and Clarke can add some color.
Yes there's no question that the European banks in general are going back home and so you're seeing all of us participate in picking up that really really good business.
So -- and BB&amp;T in particular is attractive for a lot of these clients that we're counting on the foreigns for participation because in many cases we didn't have any involvement at all.
And so we are able to step into a meaningful position and some really really fine clients.
And that's been kind of across-the-board.
It's showing up in all industry segments.
It's particularly showing up in energy for example.
There are a lot of packages on the street.
We look at them and we'll continue to look at them.
But we're pretty conservative in terms of underwriting.
And so the odds of us buying a lot of big packages is pretty low to be honest.
But so where we'll benefit is from going directly to the companies where their line participation arrangement has been upset and we'll be in there working out a direct relationship with them or with the lead bank versus buying packages directly from the European institutions.
And Gerard our shared credit portfolio grew very nicely in the fourth quarter up probably close to 50% linked quarter annualized.
Even within there's conservative standards we talked about.
Clearly we heard a lot from those clients around wanting to see a very stable partner in their bank group and we'd give you a little bit of color.
We did just close the largest land syndication we've ever done and it was related to a domestic company with a European parent that had funding issues in Europe.
And so that was purpose of the credit.
So that's the kind of stuff I think you're seeing out there.
We'll go next to John Pancari from Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Along the syndicated lines can you just talk to us about where the yields are coming in on the syndicated portfolio on those newer originations that you just mentioned? Absolutely.
Just to give you some sense for our syndicated book roughly you're talking about yields in about the 2.5% range and fees are about 70 or so basis points.
So again still it's very attractive given the risk profile of these credits for us.
But it is down considerably from the peak spreads we saw a year or 2 ago.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then in terms of line utilization and growth in commitments can you talk to us about how they trended during the quarter? Just trying to get a gauge of what you're seeing in terms of loan demand versus share gains from competitors.
Well our total utilization in our entire commercial book was about flat at about 34%.
I would give you little color though interesting on the middle market side or the shared credits it was actually up to 36%.
So what we are seeing -- we're clearly moving market share.
Most of our production in these segments are new names for us so that's a good thing.
But unfortunately it's not necessarily new borrowing activity for those clients or new project finances dividend recap and refis and that sort of thing.
But what we are benefiting from and seeing -- I think others are seeing is more term loan pieces that are coming on to bank balance sheets versus going out to the bond market.
So that's raised -- that was the real reason for the increase in utilization in our corporate book.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then lastly can you talk a little bit more about capital deployment? I know you gave your priorities but can you talk to us about how you're thinking about each one of those priorities? I mean on the M&amp;A front specifically we've heard a lot of the recent media reports around BankUnited looking to sell then now that's changed and there was some speculation that you had some interest in that franchise.
So could you talk a little bit more about each of the priorities for us? Yes so we're very clear about our priorities because we think it's consistent with what our shareholders look for.
Remember that our focus is on a group of shareholders that are long-term stable shareholders and we feel very strongly in our fiduciary responsibility to tell them what we're going to try to do and then do it.
And so we've been very clear to them and to broad-based investor communities that we're really focused primarily on organic growth.
We have invested in organic opportunities over the last long number of years in places like Florida and Maryland and Texas and we do that on a very consistent strategic basis so that we're constantly layering in organic growth opportunities and that's why you want to deploy capital in that way.
That's obviously the most profitable way to enhance shareholder value.
Secondly we have still about 50% of our shareholders our private individual shareholders and they value dividends highly.
And frankly most of our institutional shareholders are good conservative long-term holders and they value dividends very highly.
And so dividends are very important.
Over the long term to take a 100-year run on the stock market dividends are a huge percentage of the total gains of clients and so dividend and the account permanence of dividends is very important.
In terms of strategic opportunities clearly you want to be looking at how to invest capital strategically.
And so we are very what I call aggressive in terms of looking at opportunities but very conservative when we get down to doing the analysis.
We look at a lot of stuff.
We don't do much and that's because we're very conservative we're very disciplined we're very analytical.
And so when we say we're going to focus on strategic opportunities we're going to control asset quality and we're going to do what's economically attractive to our shareholders.
It's exactly what we mean it's exactly what we do and that's exactly what you've seen playing out in all of that stuff in the market.
And so you can expect us to continue to behave in exactly the way we have said that we have and have performed in the past.
We'll go next to Erika Penala from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just have one follow-up question to Gerard's question.
You mentioned that you think that normal losses would be in the 60 to 80 basis point range based on the mix of your loan book and you guided us towards 130 basis point charge-off number for the first quarter.
I guess could you give us a sense of -- and you also mentioned that there's still a downward pressure implied by your allowance models.
Could you give us a sense of what benchmarks do you look at or what we should look at in terms of how much more your allowance could come down as the rate of improvement is still directionally correct but is slowing? Fair question Erika.
This is Clarke.
Again what we've thought about obviously we will fully comply with accounting and the regulatory methodology for reserve setting as it moves forward and changes.
But given the current guidance and construct and the way we think about it is if we were seeing our normalized losses moving down to the 60 80 basis point range then just from a management standpoint we're probably comfortable seeing the reserves in at least the 1.5 to 2x that run rate of losses.
Obviously you could see where we are today and expect to see where we might bottom out given where we want to go.
And again all that depends on how the portfolio in fact fully performs and the environmental factors.
But that's kind of the way we think about it today.
Erika another point and for Gerard if he's still listen too is when you think about the mix in our business from historically more dependence on real estate and going forward much more dependence on in diversified and C&amp;I portfolio you have to think about more than just the interest rate and the charge-off rate or the net risk-adjusted yield.
You have to think about the total profitability from the relationship and coming from collateral benefits.
So for example when you have a larger real estate portfolio you can basically look at the risk-adjusted yield and that's kind of it because there are no other collateral benefits.
When you look at a C&amp;I portfolio you think about a risk-adjusted yield plus the other profitability coming from the collateral benefits and so it's a more comprehensive analysis.
So while our historical charge-off rates let's say let's call it 40 basis point range is lower than our expected 60 to 80 the net overall profitability will be enhanced because of the collateral benefits that are to come from that broader more diversified portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And one last question.
Daryl where are you repricing your CDs to today? I'd say right now Erika they're probably around 50 basis points 40 to 50 basis points.
We'll go next to Bob Patten from Morgan Keegan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Quick question on -- most of my questions have been asked but just on capital.
Is there any discussion at the board level or senior management around special dividends as this industry continues to generate excess capital? Bob as you well know we're all thinking about capital in the context of the evolving new framework around Basel et cetera.
We also know -- as you also know we have to think about it in terms of the CCAR.
And so we have our own thoughts and then we have to be guided by what our partners are and from the regulatory perspective.
Having said that though Bob I think the industry is poised and BB&amp;T is poised to generate substantial capital as we go forward.
And if you start from the premise that we start from which is that we are already well capitalized today then looking forward we would think in terms of our capital deployment hierarchy.
And to be honest with you personally I like the notion of a special dividend.
It's the kind of thing that when the time is right and the economics makes sense it's a nice reward to your long-term shareholders and particularly now that they've had several years of not getting their kind of normalized cash flows.
So while I would stop way short of any kind of promise or even interest with regard to that intellectually to your point it is appealing and it could certainly play a part in the future.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Understand.
And just one last question on the TruPS.
Any update there in terms of options rates and so forth? Bob the only thing I can tell you is is we submitted our capital plans.
We're waiting to hear from the regulators in middle of March.
And at that point I think you might see potential action plans we can take from that announcement.
We'll go next to Kevin Fitzsimmons from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on the subject of M&amp;A.
Kelly can you give just an update on where we stand with BankAtlantic? Is everything on track in terms of closing for that? I know there were a few shareholder lawsuits and this news of the SEC lawsuit against them.
I would assume that you're completely protected from that kind of thing that's the holding company not the bank but if you can just give us an update on that.
Yes so we are aware of the SEC enforcement action.
It in no way involves BB&amp;T and we're certainly not going to comment about securities law actions that are related to other parties.
But as far as we're concerned we are proceeding in terms of our pre-acquisition conversion activities.
We're proceeding in terms of regulatory applications.
And it is our wish and our expectation to perform according to our contract.
We'll go next to Ken Usdin from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions for you.
First of all relative to the net interest margin we know that it's going to be down in the first quarter and presumably for the year just based on the covered loan runoff.
Daryl I was wondering can you size the expectation of the magnitude of the 2 parts? What of the NIM compression comes from lower covered loan income and then what is just -- what is related to core? Sure.
I'll try to summarize it for you Ken.
Every quarter we have to run cash flow and assessments and we also go through the impairment analysis so it changes a little bit every quarter.
But if you really look at the net impact of the decline in the net interest income versus the less loss on the fee income side it's probably a net loss of revenue of approximately $100 million for the year.
So it's very manageable.
So you have margin coming down more but you have the fee income bouncing back some.
So I think that's very doable.
We feel very comfortable in '12 that both net interest income and fee income will show positive growth year-over-year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so within that subcomponent just -- yes I just want to make sure I understand that.
So the loss share giveback was down this quarter because of the provision right? Because there was that provision one also that you shared back as well.
So I would presume that if you don't have that type of excess provision for the covered loans that the -- what's the direction I guess just of the fee income component of it? Should that get better or move back higher again from the 46 this quarter? Okay so this quarter you are right in that we did have some more impairments so there was an impairment that we took where you have the 80% offset.
That was worth $33 million adjustment in the fee income line item.
So if everything stayed flat for the first quarter you would probably see the loss or the income item on the FDIC loss share go up a little bit quarter-over-quarter on a linked basis.
It's hard to predict when you're going to have impairments because you have to take it at the time it occurs.
But if you look overall it's an 80% offset when it occurs so it really doesn't have a large impact on your earnings because you had a provision with the offset in the loss share.
But if you take away the provision piece that net $100 million down is really what the impact is.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So the 2012 impact from -- you think is a $100 million decline from the covered loan side? Correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> For the full year okay.
And then underneath that how do you expect the core margin to be doing underneath that as you look further out for the year? So we're going to stick with our guidance to the first quarter what I can tell you is that the margin in the fourth quarter if you take away the covered asset piece it was relatively flat.
We had really good stable margin.
So it really depends on the loan growth that we're achieving and we feel good about continuing to replace that on our deposits.
So we think overall our normal operating core margin should be relatively stable.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My second question bigger picture question result.
I wanted to ask you guys about the insurance business.
I thought in the line of business that you're talking about it being a growth year both organic and potentially through acquisitions.
So I was wondering if you could just walk us through is it a better core growth year ahead than it was and maybe just kind of frame up the business.
And then separately how you're seeing the acquisition landscape in that business as well.
Yes so on the organic side we think it's going to be a better year in 2 regards.
We continue to move market share in that business.
As you saw insurance revenues were up 2% and there's still a soft market out there and so we're moving market share.
On the other hand we're beginning to see for the first time in several years some firming up in the market particularly in the wholesale side and that always precedes firming up on the retail side.
Certainly the insurance companies that had a attrition of capital from some of their investment activities and catastrophes.
So they're being more aggressive in terms of pricing.
We're beginning to see that show up.
So we think in terms of market share movement and pricing movement on the organic side that looks to be positive for the year.
Acquisitions are beginning to come back.
We really went through 1.5 years where there wasn't much going on.
I think everybody was kind of shellshocked and kind of trying to figure out what was going on in the world.
You've noticed we've announced 3 acquisitions in the last few months a couple in the benefits area out in California.
That's really important for us as we begin to develop the platform necessary to deal with health care reform et cetera.
And then a PC business up in Maryland area.
We think we will continue to see opportunities in property and casualty and in benefits as we go forward.
And we think our insurance acquisition activity will be what I'd call kind of normal for BB&amp;T which is a number of acquisitions during the course of the year probably not huge.
Most of ours are kind of small.
There are not many big deals in the insurance business although you always kind of look at what's available.
We continue to have an interest in the life side of the business.
We've for several years been trying to strategically figure out how to grow the life business.
We sell life but it's just a small part of our whole revenue stream and so we're trying to figure out how to do the life business which will at some point be a change for us when we figure out how to do it.
We'll go next to Christopher Marinac from FIG Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kelly just wanted to ask you from an acquisition standpoint do the returns that you're seeing as you sketch things out look greater or is it sort of the same as you've done historically? If you kind of look back in the last 7 to 8 years is this environment going to be better returns that what you historically have done at BB&amp;T? In terms of acquisitions the returns will be better than they have been in the last several years or you won't see us do any because the last several years as you know we got out of the business because the returns are too low.
The last 12 months or so there hasn't been much activity while everybody's been trying to figure out what their new normalized earnings are going to be.
I think that we're heading into a period where people are beginning to get more realistic about what the new landscape's going to be.
In other words more regulatory oversight more regulatory costs scale issues in terms of pressure on pricing et cetera et cetera.
So I think you're going to begin to see companies think more strategically now that they're kind of out of their jaws of the crisis.
And my personal opinion is that will cause companies to be willing to look at combinations.
That having been said today I would say there's still exuberance on the seller's part in terms of what the prices that they can get and some more of that's got to be wrung out before you can see too much activity.
We'll go next to Michael Rose from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All my questions have been answered.
We'll go next to Lana Chan from BMO Capital Markets.
I don't know if you've given this number but on the OREO can you tell us how much that's been marked down to at this point relative to the original contractual value including on some of the land components? I would just say this.
We certainly prefer not to give a specific number because we certainly don't want to influence potential buyers.
But I would tell you that it's been substantially marked down from original UPB on the loan side as we brought it in.
And then we've taken additional marks.
So I think it's a large -- I think you'd find it's a very large number and ought to give us the ability to move this out pretty quickly.
Thanks everyone.
Although we have a number of folks left in the queue we are out of time for questions today.
If you have any further questions though please feel free to call Alan or myself in Investor Relations.
Thank you and have a great day everyone.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Greetings ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the BB&amp;T Corporation First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call on April 19 2012.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Ms.
Tamera Gjesdal Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for BB&amp;T Corporation.
Thank you.
You may begin Tamera.
Thank you Jenny and good morning everyone and thanks to all of our listeners for joining us today.
This call is being broadcast on the Internet from our website at bbt.com.
We have with us today Kelly King our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Daryl Bible our Chief Financial Officer; and Clarke Starnes our Chief Risk Officer who will review the results for the first quarter of 2012 as well as provide their thoughts about next quarter.
We will be referencing a slide presentation during our remarks today.
A copy of this presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental financial information are available on the BB&amp;T website.
After Kelly Daryl and Clarke have made their remarks we will pause to have Jenny come back on the line and explain how you may participate in the Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin let me remind you BB&amp;T does not provide public earnings predictions or forecast.
However there may be statements made during the course of this call that express management's intentions beliefs or expectations.
BB&amp;T's actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning these factors that could cause actual results to be materially different is contained on Slide 2 of our presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
Our presentation includes certain non-GAAP disclosures.
Please refer to Page 2 and the appendix of our presentation for the appropriate reconciliations to GAAP.
And now I’ll turn the call over to Kelly.
Thank you Tamera.
Good morning everybody and thank you for joining us.
So overall we had a very strong first quarter.
In fact it's really the best quarter since before the economic crisis based on stronger revenues lower expenses and really a positive outlook going forward.
Taking a look at earnings we had net income totaling $431 million up 91.6% versus the first quarter of '11.
EPS was $0.61 up 91% versus the first quarter and it was an annualized 44% versus the fourth quarter of '11.
Revenues were strong so our adjusted net revenues totaled $2.4 billion which was up 19.2% versus the fourth quarter of '11.
Now net interest income was down about 4% but that's due to a difference in day -- less days in this quarter.
We had record mortgage banking income.
Mortgage volumes are really really good.
In fact our production was $8.3 billion.
I'm very pleased to report that our insurance revenue on a same-store basis was up 6.5% which is real encouraging because insurance has finally started turning up at least [indiscernible] several years of soft market.
It's clearly beginning to firm up so that's very good news for us.
In the lending area average loan growth was 6.4% on held for investment versus the fourth quarter.
But if you exclude ADC covered and other acquired loans it was up 9.9% versus the fourth quarter.
That's really especially good given that we have some normal seasonality during the first quarter.
And I would point out that the loan growth was led by C&amp;I mortgage direct retail and Sales Finance.
Had another strong deposit quarter with non-interest-bearing deposits up $957 million or 15.3% versus the fourth and total deposits increased $2.7 billion or 8.8% versus the fourth.
We had some really I think positive capital actions following the very strong results we had in the stress test or the CCAR.
And as you recall as a result of that we were able to increase our dividend by 25% to $0.20 a quarter.
And then we had some very friendly shareholder transactions in the acquisitions of Crump and BankAtlantic.
And on the credit quality front another really good quarter.
NPAs decreased $194 million or 7.9% versus the fourth.
Foreclosed real estate decreased another significant to $158 million or 29.5% and delinquent loans decreased $307 million or 23%.
They're really beginning to get to real almost like all-time lows.
So Clarke will give you more color on that as we go forward.
If you're following along on the slide deck please go to Slide #4.
We did have a couple of unusual items.
In the tax-related area we had $42 million adjustment in our after-tax write-downs of investments on affordable housing partnerships and we had $8 million in other tax adjustments.
So that was a total of $50 million after tax which had a $0.07 diluted impact on EPS.
Daryl will give you more color because it also affected our tax rate.
We're glad that we're planning this quarter to sell our last of our leverage leases.
So since we knew about what that price was going to be we went ahead and took a mark on that which is about $10 million after tax that was $0.01.
And we did have some merger-related charges from BankAtlantic and the restructuring charges from our reconceptualization project which totaled about $7 million after tax and that was about $0.01.
And then we had a small amount of security losses which was about another $0.01 after tax on an EPS basis.
So a few items there.
If you turn with me to Page 5 I want to give you little detail with regard to the loan growth area.
Very pleased that our C&amp;I growth was up 9% first to fourth.
We're really beginning to see continued building of strong performance in Corporate Banking.
In fact if -- a little detail on Corporate Banking.
So our volume of corporate loan transactions from the first to the first of last year was up 43%.
Total loan commitments are up 41% and I'm very pleased about the fact that new money commitments are up over 100%.
So that strategy is really beginning to work for us.
Our Texas operation is really doing extremely well because as you know that's a huge market and it's growing really fast.
But to give you a sense of where we are on that when we acquired Colonial we started out with about $800 million in deposits.
That's now up to about $1.5 billion.
We started out with 0 in loans and loans are up to about $1.2 billion now.
So our Texas operation is doing well.
And really Florida and Alabama are really beginning to come on strong too where we had a substantial pickup in market deposits from Alabama.
So what we think is happening in the marketplace is the market is growing slowly but we are really seeing market share movement.
When I talk to our relationship managers they tell me that about 88% of their production is what they call takeaway or market share movement from other competitors.
Our brand value is at an all-time high and so we're being well received in the marketplace and we're working hard and so I think that's really beginning to get a lot of traction in the C&amp;I area.
In the CRE area if you recall that's been a runoff portfolio for us.
Part of that we wanted to run off and part of it we very much want to grow.
But it's slowing now.
So the decline as you can see is down 6% first to fourth.
The good news is that that is a future opportunity because while we clearly have been very very conservative on ADC we want to grow our CRE particularly income-producing properties and we're getting some traction in that area.
So I think that's an opportunity.
When the math flips on that we'll begin to see our production exceeding run-off.
Our Sales Finance area had another strong quarter up by 11.4%.
Mortgage had a very strong quarter up 20.2%.
Other lending subsidiaries requires a little explanation.
It's only at 1.9% but that's a -- because of larger seasonal decline in our insurance premium finance business that's -- happens every year.
But to give you a little more color on the other lending businesses equipment finance for example is up 36%.
Grandbridge which is commercial mortgage is up 30%.
Sheffield which is our small ticket consumer and business finance operation is up 13%.
So that whole group of other lending businesses are doing extremely well.
Our direct retail business is really doing a really good job now so at 15.2%.
That's largely because of first lien home equity financing.
It’s driven significantly by our wealth strategy and our small business strategy.
So we think that is not only good quality paper but it's good relationship paper and has really good legs going forward.
I do want to stress that while we feel very good about these loan numbers we continue to be conservative and on our long-term strategy with regard to the types of credits we're booking we're still focused on diversification.
We told you 3.5 years ago we're about diversifying our portfolio.
We're about growing it.
But we're about keeping high-quality.
We’re keeping our granularity very very fine.
We're keeping our focus on diversification.
So for example we know that in the industry during this quarter there was a lot of competitors that were doing a lot of leverage loans which we don't do a lot of asset-backed structured finance loans which we don't do.
So we could have a lot faster growth to be honest with you if we wanted to but we'd rather have somewhat slower growth and higher quality and better overall risk diversification.
So while our numbers are strong you may compare it to some others and you may see some classes of categories of loans where they have grown faster and that's a conscious decision on our part.
Very pleased that our end-of-quarter loan pipelines are strong and so we feel good about that as we head into Q2.
So we would suggest to you that our expected range for the quarter would be 5% to 7% annualized and that does exclude the $2 billion or so coming in from BankAtlantic and is contingent on the economy contingent to do well which we think it will but there's certainly some risk factors out there.
If you follow along on Page 6 we had another strong quarter for deposit growth.
Deposits really are just doing really well.
Frankly there’s just a lot of money still flooding into the banking system which is not necessarily a good thing from the economy point of view but we're doing a good job as well.
For our non-interest-bearing deposits are up 15.3%.
Interest checking is up 5.1%.
Money market savings up 7.9%.
TDs are up 8.1% even though we've really been squeezing the cost down.
So our total deposits are up 8.8%.
If you look at the graph on that page you'll see that over the last year we've reduced our cost from 0.82% to 0.49% but we feel really good about that.
So if you think about going forward we would expect similar account deposit growth into second quarter and some continued decline in lower deposit costs because we still have a little ways to go on that.
If you turn with me to Page 7 I want to give you some good news a little detail with regard to the stress test the CCAR process.
We're very pleased that if you exclude announced capital issuances BB&amp;T had the strongest capital Tier 1 common under the stress scenarios of the traditional banks.
And if you recall this is a really tough stress conditions.
And of course we got no objection in terms of raising our dividend that I mentioned before.
If you look at that bottom graph you'll see that under the stress scenarios we had the lowest loan loss rate among the traditional banks and we think that really affirms our effectiveness of our diversification strategies which we knew based on our own numbers but it's also now based on the Fed’s numbers.
If you look at Page 8 you'll see a little more color.
So if you look at the results we had the lowest commercial loss rate amongst traditional banks under stress.
And then on -- we had the second lowest first lien mortgage loss rates among traditional banks.
So we basically -- we're first in most of the categories second in first lien mortgage rates.
So all of that put together we think just validates our long-term consistent and conservative lending culture and we just suggest that that should convey to you that we've been doing what we've been doing a long time and we will keep doing it in the future.
So we think you can expect a predictable solid conservative underwriting culture at BB&amp;T as a foundation for a strong marketing effort that gives you the best combination of quality and growth.
So I'd say overall we had a great quarter very positive about the future based on our strong fundamentals and some very specific and great opportunities that we have.
So we're very excited about the first quarter and looking forward to the second.
So let me turn it to Clarke now and let him give you some more color in the credit area.
Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
I'm very pleased to report another quarter of improved credit trends consistent with our previous guidance.
In particular we are successfully executing our strategy to aggressively liquidate foreclosed real estate.
This is having a very positive impact on reducing nonperforming assets and related credit costs.
If you'll follow with me on Slide 9 you can see that total NPAs were down 7.9% on a linked-quarter basis.
This is consistent with the 5% to 10% guidance we gave last quarter and represents the eighth consecutive quarter with lower NPAs.
In fact total NPAs have declined approximately $1.6 billion or 41.6% over the last 12 months to the lowest level in more than 3 years.
Another highlight of the quarter was a significant reduction in our early-stage credit metrics.
TDRs were down 8.5% 30- to 89-day delinquencies down 23.1% and 90 days still accruing down 22.3%.
This performance is well in excess of the seasonal improvement we would typically expect to see in the first quarter.
We also experienced solid performance in our key commercial credit quality numbers with lower watch list performing TDRs delinquencies NPLs and OREO.
Given these positive results and our continued focus on improving asset quality we are reiterating our guidance for a 5% to 10% reduction in NPAs for Q2.
Certainly that assumes the economy doesn't deteriorate significantly.
If you’ll look at Slide 10 we continue to make significant progress in reducing foreclosed real estate balances.
This quarter we saw a decrease of $158 million or 29.5% compared to Q4.
And since the first quarter of last year foreclosed real estate is down $833 million or 68.8%.
We do have an intense focus on minimizing inflows which were down 32% compared to last quarter.
We think this is important because of the length of time it takes to move assets through the foreclosure process.
So I'm very pleased we've reduced these inflows while also reducing net charge-offs.
We also continue to work very hard to sell existing foreclosed properties with Q1 sales activity of approximately $182 million.
And in addition we have approximately $100 million in sales pipeline going into Q2.
As we said last quarter this aggressive focus in OREO will also substantially reduce the run rate of our foreclosed property expense in 2012.
In fact our foreclosed property expense was $92 million in Q1 versus $346 million in Q4 down 73.4%.
And if you exclude the $220 million liquidity mark in Q4 related to the land assets the expenses were still down 27% so we're starting to see that reduction in expenses as we had predicted.
So we expect foreclosed property expenses for Q2 maybe at a similar level to somewhat lower and trending downward in the second half of the year as properties are liquidated.
So turn to Slide 11 you'll note that our charge-offs excluding covered assets for the quarter were 1.28% down from 1.46% last quarter and consistent with our previous guidance and Q1 losses were at the lowest level in 3 years.
But we expect total charge-off excluding covered assets to be approximately 1.25% in the second quarter maybe a little lower and to trend lower thereafter.
Due to the improved credit trends we did reduce our allowance for credit losses by approximately $64 million in Q1 versus the $121 million in Q4.
Reserve coverage remains very strong at 1.11x nonperforming loans.
So continued improvement in our credit performance trends and the benefit to Kelly's point of our asset diversification efforts will likely allow for future reductions in our reserves and credit-related expenses as we move forward.
So in summary we're very pleased with the solid pace of credit improvement this quarter.
Given the successful execution of our NPA reduction strategies we're well positioned to benefit from lower levels of NPAs and related credit cost.
So with that let me turn it over to Daryl for his comments on the quarter.
Thank you Clarke and good morning everyone.
I'm going to take the next few minutes to discuss net interest margin fee income noninterest expense capital and our segment reporting.
Continuing on Slide 12 net interest margin for the quarter came in strong at 3.93%.
It was down 9 basis points from the fourth quarter and well within the guidance we provided you.
The decrease was attributable to the runoff of our covered asset portfolio.
The margin continues to benefit from lower deposit costs specifically interest-bearing deposits which decreased 7 basis points to 49 basis points for the quarter positive funding mix changes and lower nonperforming assets compared to last quarter.
Net interest income was essentially flat from the last quarter adjusting for one less day.
With regard to margin outlook we expect a decline to 3.85% range in the second quarter due to continued runoff in the covered asset portfolio.
However core interest margin is expected to continue to be stable as pressure from the rate environment is more than offset by lower deposit costs primarily in the CD portfolio lower long-term debt costs and positive funding mix.
As you can see on the graph on Slide 12 we remain asset-sensitive in our position for rising rates.
Finally the duration of the securities portfolio at the end of the quarter was 3.8 years up slightly from the fourth quarter.
Turning to Slide 13 our fee income ratio for the first quarter increased to 41% from 38.4% in the fourth quarter.
The increase was related to improved insurance performance larger gains sold in mortgage banking net gain on mortgage servicing rights improved market conditions and investment banking and brokerage fees.
The change in FDIC loss share income was mostly due to the provision offset and the cumulative impact of cash flow reassessments.
The balance for accretable yield decreased to $1.4 billion from $1.8 billion last quarter.
The decline in other noninterest income resulted in a $42 million write-down on investments in affordable housing and a $27 million lower venture capital investment income.
During the first quarter we reevaluated our process for estimating the carrying value of investments in affordable housing partnerships which resulted in a $42 million pretax charge.
This charge is mainly a change in the timing of income recognition.
We have $1.2 billion of these investments and expect to receive more than $1.6 billion in future tax benefits.
The amount of future tax credits and other benefits did not change.
As part of the changes made we also adjusted how certain tax credits were recognized.
This change offset the tax benefit associated with the $42 million pretax charge.
This one-time expense will not reoccur.
We expect the fee income ratio to continue to improve in the second quarter as Crump is included in our results.
Looking on Slide 14 our efficiency ratio improved to 52% compared to 53.5% last quarter.
Positive operating leverage drove this improvement.
We also expect to have positive operating leverage for the full year 2012.
Personnel expense increased $51 million or 30.2% annualized versus the fourth quarter.
This relates primarily to higher payroll taxes pension expense and post-employment benefit expense.
Payroll taxes are up seasonally and the increase in post-employment benefit expenses are offset by higher noninterest income.
FTEs were down $589 million in the quarter due to the expense optimization and continued branch rationalization.
As expected foreclosed property expense decreased $254 million due to more write-downs and losses taken in the fourth quarter.
We expect foreclosed property expense to continue to decline throughout 2012.
Professional services expense decreased $14 million due to lower legal fees related to the improving credit environment.
We expect $40 million to $50 million in merger-related charges in the second quarter due to acquisitions of Crump and BankAtlantic.
Additionally the Crump acquisition in the second quarter will increase our efficiency ratio about 1%.
Finally the tax rate for the first quarter was 29.8%.
If you exclude the tax effect of the adjustments to the housing partnership investments as I mentioned earlier and certain other tax adjustments the state -- the tax rate was in line with our expectations at approximately 25%.
Beginning in the second quarter we expect the tax rate to normalize and be in the mid-20% range for the remainder of the year.
Turning to Slide 15 our capital ratios continue to be among the strongest in the industry.
Tier 1 common increased to 10%; Tier 1 capital 12.7%.
Our internal capital generation continues to provide significant financial flexibility for capital deployment in the following order: organic growth dividends and strategic opportunities.
We are very pleased to raise the second quarter dividend 25% to $0.20 after banking regulators did not object to our proposed capital actions in 2012.
We are deploying capital in the second quarter with the Crump acquisition and pending acquisition of BankAtlantic.
Compared to a share buyback these acquisitions are more accretive to earnings provide a growing asset to our shareholders and we believe a more effective use of our capital.
Finally our current estimated Tier 1 common under Basel III improved to 9.2%.
We believe this will meet our capital requirements once the U.S.
capital rules are published.
Turning to Slide 16 to segment reporting let me take a few moments to give you a few highlights.
Community bank net income totaled $105 million up $54 million versus linked-quarter.
The main drivers include loan growth lower foreclosed property costs and strong non-interest-bearing deposit growth.
The loan loss provision increased $137 million linked-quarter due to updates in the loss factors for C&amp;I and direct retail loans which were partially offset by reductions in commercial real estate.
We are seeing great opportunities in newer markets in Florida Alabama and Texas and seeing evidence that Florida markets are stabilizing.
Finally we experienced solid growth in several payment categories such as merchant services which was up 16%.
Turning to Slide 17 Residential Mortgage net income was up significantly in the fourth quarter and totaled $128 million.
The main drivers included an increase in the gain on sale due to increased obligation volume and wider spreads.
Lower provision expense also resulted from improving credit trends and updates to loss factors.
Year-over-year portfolio growth increased substantially with loan service for others growing 8.4%.
Turning to Slide 18.
Dealer Financial Services achieved record first quarter loan production in both prime and non-prime auto lending.
Net income for this segment totaled $57 million with Regional Acceptance achieving net interest income due to higher margins.
Additionally provision expense declined as a result of lower charge-offs and delinquent accounts.
Regional Acceptance losses remained very low and our prime auto losses were also low at 23 basis points.
We continue to open new offices in strong growth markets and are increasing our focus on floor plan financing.
On Slide 19 Specialized Lending experienced solid growth with net income of $53 million.
As a reminder this segment typically experiences some seasonal declines in the first quarter.
Higher net interest income was driven by exceptional growth in Sheffield Financial Mortgage Warehouse Lending and equipment finance.
Moving on to Slide 20.
Insurance Services generated $23 million in net income.
Increased revenue was broad-based in almost all insurance businesses.
However the increase in seasonal personnel expenses and provisions for insurance reserves more than offset the increased revenue.
Earlier this month we closed the acquisition of the Crump Group.
This acquisition adds approximately $300 million in annual revenues and doubles BB&amp;T's insurance wholesale division.
We continue to anticipate future strong organic revenue growth in our insurance businesses.
Turning to Slide 21.
Financial Services generated $63 million in net income primarily driven in Corporate Banking and Wealth Management.
They had loan growth of 59% and 33% respectively.
Investments in Wealth and Corporate Banking revenue producers drove higher noninterest expense for the quarter.
Finally we continue to see opportunities in large corporate and special lending segments such as energy lending.
With that let me turn it back over to Kelly for closing remarks and Q&amp;A.
Thank you Daryl.
So in summary we continue to invest in businesses that can drive revenue.
We have underlying fundamentals that are very strong in loan and deposit growth and fee income and I would particularly point out insurance are exceptionally strong.
We're successfully executing on our diversification in risk management risk mitigation strategies and we are continuing to focus on reconceptualizing our businesses to drive revenue and expense optimization.
We believe we still provide the best value proposition in our markets and so we're optimistic about our performance for 2012.
I would point out that this is our 140th year our birthday at BB&amp;T.
And notwithstanding that tremendous heritage we still believe our best days are ahead.
So Tamera I'll turn it back to you for questions.
Thank you Kelly.
[Operator Instructions] And now I'll ask Jenny to come back on the line and explain how to submit your question.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go first to Craig Siegenthaler with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just looking here at Slide 18 on the auto dealer finance segment I just have a few questions.
First just wondering what's the size of this portfolio and what's the mix of prime versus non-prime.
And then when you think about where growth's been coming from is it really gain in existing market share in your footprint? Is it expansion in Texas and Alabama? Or is it stronger aggregate industry trends? Craig the size of the portfolio is approximately $10 billion.
About $2.5 billion is in Regional Acceptance which is mainly the sub-prime business and the other 3/4 $7.5 billion is in our prime.
And I would say Greg particularly on the prime side a lot of our growth has been opportunities to expand particularly with the Colonial acquisition in Texas and Alabama and more presence in Florida and then just good solid growth in our existing legacy offices.
So for us it's not been a change of strategy.
We're just better penetrating we think.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I appreciate the overall loan guidance of 5% to 7% on the average balance.
But when you think about just the C&amp;I segment growth here was down a little bit from a very strong fourth quarter.
So it was up 18% in the fourth quarter down 2% in the first quarter on a quarter-over-quarter annualized basis.
When you think about 2Q and really 2012 are we really kind of targeting the midpoint of that range due to seasonal lumpiness to somewhere around 10%? I think what we're saying here is we have a number of businesses that are really really doing very very well.
And so what you saw in the first quarter is kind of interesting was it? We had a bumper closing towards the end of the fourth quarter.
You often get that for tax reasons and recharging the people's balance sheet.
And then I think we told you on the first quarter call that there was a little lull in the first -- kind of first 45 days and then things started building in the pipeline again as we headed into the end of first into the fourth.
So we think that based on the momentum of our pipeline that we see today we're comfortable with our 5% to 7% type of range.
There's certainly some possibility to be on the high side of that based on everything that we see.
But we're being a little cautious to be honest because we don't think the economy is growing that fast.
I know some people may have given different feedback on that.
But when we talk to businesses it's like this.
Big businesses are generally doing well.
Small to medium-sized businesses in many cases are still struggling.
So the overall economy is growing about 2%.
So keep in mind that we are not doing a lot of these loans that a lot of other companies are doing.
These leveraged loans and these structured loans we're just not doing.
And so growing 5% to 7% in a 2% kind of GDP environment we think is really strong.
And Kelly I would chime in Craig that our commitments were actually up 8% for the linked-quarter on the C&amp;I side and our pipeline's up 15% as Kelly said.
And we feel really good about that that will pull through to a higher average in the second.
We did have a little bit of paydown on our mortgage warehouse business right at the end of the quarter which is reported in our C&amp;I segment.
That's already rebounding there.
So we feel very good that we can be in that 5% to 7% range that Kelly said without participating in those riskier segments.
And we will go to our next question from Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the core margin trends.
Daryl correct me if I'm wrong but if I'm backing out the accretion I'm getting to a core margin of around 3.45% for this quarter versus about 3.53% last quarter.
Is that about in the ballpark? Yes I think if you back out all the purchase accounting entries I think it's in the mid-40s.
And if you adjust for that margin core margin was basically down just a basis point or 2 on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
I think that's correct.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And so in terms of looking further out in terms of reaching your goal for a core margin of 3.7% to 3.8% does that 3.7% to 3.8% number do you get there by being able to rightsize more of your funding costs? Or do you need help from short-term rates to get to 3.7% 3.8%? Yes.
I'd say Erika right now when we talked about long-term margin guidance we're around 3.7%.
I think we also talked about if the rate environment stays where it is for a protracted period of time that puts pressure on the 3.7%.
So I would say right now where I sit with the rate environment our core margin will probably stabilize between 3.7% and 3.6% and not the 3.8% handle.
And Erika this is Kelly.
Keep in mind that we do have as you pointed out some more downside on the funding cost.
So if rates stay really low which we don't think they will but if they do then you've got even more downside opportunity on the funding side.
And the good news is we're just finally beginning to see a little firming on corporate pricing.
It's a little too early to call it a trend but our people told us earlier this week they are seeing some firming.
So there's some opportunity for it to stabilize a little better than you might think.
And moving on we have a question from Catherine Mealor with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> How should we think about a normalized level of mortgage revenues going forward? And maybe a question for that is what percentage of originations were refinances versus purchases? I think the refinance in the fourth quarter was really high.
I'm trying to remember the number but it’s improved substantially in the first quarter.
I think the refi was about 55% Daryl is that about right? Yes on a month-by-month basis the January refinance was in the mid-70s.
And by the March our refinance activity dropped to the high 50s.
So we actually had a lot more purchase activity towards the end of the first quarter.
So Catherine to be honest with you it's kind of challenging right now to give you a really firm projection because you've got 2 things going on.
You've got -- with rates so low and right now they're extremely low refinances are very strong.
But we've clearly seen in the last 6 months a substantial shift towards purchasing which is really encouraging.
And I drive around and talk to our producers and they tell me that there's been a substantial shift towards purchasing.
So clearly confidence is coming back.
People are beginning to buy houses.
They're beginning to have -- therefore purchase mortgages.
And so if you think of it going forward if rates stay really low and if this consumer confidence stays high you could expect volume similar to what we saw in the first quarter.
If on the other hand rates pop up I don't think that would speak to purchases because I don't think that really drives purchases.
Our rate is so low if it goes up 50 basis points it’s not going to affect purchases.
It would if they were refinancing.
So we would probably project for the next 2 or 3 quarters something lower than the first quarter but it's hard to say we'd be substantially lower than that.
Yes the only thing I would add to that too Catherine is if you look at the gain on sale the spreads that we achieved in the first quarter they're at 168 basis points.
Last year our spreads averaged 102.
So you can see as Kelly said the low-rate environment.
Everything kind of went in our direction and we're able to achieve really high margins on the funds that we originated and sold off.
And the only other point I'd just give you just as a data point is that our April production level is at a similar level to the first quarter level.
So this is right up to date I can tell you it's running at about the same level.
And we will hear next from John Pancari with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the decline in the C&amp;I loan from an end-of-period basis that we saw linked-quarter this quarter? Is that a slowing in the large corporate or syndicated? John this is Clarke.
What that primarily was we had because of the very strong mortgage refi market in our correspondent channel we had some over lines that had funded up and actually they -- the investors finally called up and this cleared out toward the end of the quarter and now those are kind of funding right back up.
So it was really unusual phenomena related to our commercial warehouse business.
Our core corporate and commercial lending was not down.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And can you just give us an idea of the magnitude of that swing in the mortgage lines? It was about $200 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then lastly on loan growth can you talk a little bit more about the magnitude and the pace of the remaining runoff in real estate-related loans and just so we can kind of get an idea of the timing when we see an inflection in those balances? It's hard to fully predict.
But to Kelly's point I think you would see continued rate of runoff at a similar level in the ADC portfolio which is now in the period down to about $1.8 billion.
That will continue to run off I think incrementally.
We believe however the trajectory of decline in the CRE other portfolio is close to bottoming out so you ought to start -- we're almost at the inflection point and I think you'll start seeing some incremental growth as we get later in the year and as we go into 2013.
And moving on we have a question from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions a follow-up.
On the commercial real estate mortgage what's causing the decline? Are you guys asking some customers not to come back? Or are some of your customers being picked off by competitors who are more aggressive than you? Or are you just not really looking for the new business? Gerard I'd say it's -- we're certainly not having any being picked off.
What we have is basically clients that have had real challenges in the marketplace understandably.
In some cases they've gone out of business.
In some cases their volumes are just really low.
And frankly we're not looking for any new and so we are focusing on our risk diversification strategy.
We could be doing more of that but we're very intent about executing on what we've said about our diversification strategy.
So we don't have any real energy in trying to do ADC and that's coming down.
And so in terms of other commercial we are aggressively looking for IPP but we're not looking for some of the kinds of again super high-rise office buildings and hotels and that kind of thing that maybe some other people are doing.
LLC Research Division</strong> I see.
And then as a follow-up Kelly could you give us your view on what you're seeing on the acquisition market in terms of -- for depositories? Clearly you guys have been successful in doing this in the past.
And are there any parts of the -- your franchise that you really are focused on that over time you may want to look more aggressively in? So Gerard our strategy on M&amp;A is basically the same as it's been really for the last 3 years.
We're first looking to try to build out more density in our existing footprint.
So the areas that I would emphasize there would be in the broader D.C.
Maryland area.
We could certainly use some more density there.
Depending on the markets parts of Florida for example obviously BankAtlantic does a lot for us in the Greater Miami area taking us from #14 to #6.
We could certainly -- we'd like to have some more density in the Great Atlanta area but there's not much availability there.
Over time you can expect to see us try to do fill-in in the obviously the emerging Texas market for us.
So that's where our -- that's clearly where our primary focus is.
But to be honest there's just not a lot of activity out there now.
People are still it seems very much in a waiting stage.
I think a lot of banks that may have decided to do a strategic combination at some point they simply just want to get through the completeness of the cycle.
In some cases I think they want to see their prices go back up to what they think they might get to.
And so there's a lot of -- there just is a lot of waiting out there going on.
So we think as we've said in the past we'll continue to look very aggressively at all of the opportunities that make sense for us strategically.
But we remain disciplined with regard to not taking any material asset risk and making sure it's a good shareholder-friendly transaction.
And we will go next to Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can just talk a little bit about the -- more about the insurance business 8% year-over-year growth is probably the best growth rate we've seen in a while.
I know you mentioned premiums but can you just talk about how much of it is premiums versus new and retained business whether Crump is seeing that as well on their side? And then if you could just remind us how much Crump adds in revenues in the second quarter.
Yes so -- you start -- you well pointed out with the baseline of retention we do a fantastic job.
I think the latest number on retention is something like 97%.
So we always have a really high retention factor because we focus the most on our existing clients and doing a really good high-quality job.
So in the basic what I call small to medium-sized retail that business is not changing too much today other than we're keeping really good high retentions.
Where you see real movement is in wholesale and in large corporate retail.
We actually started seeing about 6 months ago movement in wholesale.
Remember we're in wholesale and retail so we get to see it as it moves through the pipe.
So we started seeing firming up in prices about 6 months ago in wholesale.
It's now showing up in McGriff which is our large corporate retail beginning to show up in BB&amp;T Insurance which is a small medium-sized ticket retail and so it's kind of across the board.
And it's really been fairly recent in the retail side.
In fact I literally just met with our 3 top executives from Crump yesterday and I’ll make a segue point.
They are extraordinarily impressive folks extremely well trained and great diversification of experiences.
They really add dramatically to our level of executive expertise in the whole insurance area.
They affirmed to me yesterday that they're seeing the very same thing in the PC area.
Life rates tend to be more stable.
That's one of the things we like about that.
Recall that life has a better margin.
Life tends to run about a 30% margin where PC runs about a 10% to 12% margin.
But they all -- they said on the PC side and the life side that they were looking for -- and our people said this too on the traditional BB&amp;T that looking forward they're looking to high-single digit premium increases over the next period of time.
So we've clearly seen that change.
We've been waiting for years for it and it seems to be really growing.
As far as the revenue for the second quarter I would probably put in about $75 million additional revenue for '12.
That's right.
That total is about $300 million on an annualized basis so that increases our revenue from about $1 billion to $1.3 billion.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my second question Daryl if you can just walk us through again the way the accretion works as we move past for the rest of the year.
Previously you guys had talked about the FDIC component the return going down by about $100 million in 2012.
Can you just confirm that and also kind of give us a trail for how the top line impact of the purchase accounting should also trail as we look ahead? Sure Ken.
So we are pleasantly surprised this quarter.
If you look at the net impact on purchase accounting it was relatively flat on a linked-quarter basis.
I would say on a net basis for the next 2 to 3 quarters I would expect maybe a $10 million to $20 million net decline on a consecutive-quarter basis.
As far as on net interest income I would say estimate after we run these cash flows every quarter but it's approximately another $10 million to $15 million decline in net interest income for the next couple of quarters and then maybe accelerating to $20 million to $30 million when you get down to the fourth quarter.
And we will hear next from Greg Ketron with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Kelly kind of a bigger picture question.
You guys obviously have been very successful in picking up market share in areas like commercial lending noninterest-bearing deposits.
Maybe if we get some color on where you're seeing that market share pick up from what kind of strategy you might be executing on within your footprint to gain this kind of market share.
It's a -- it's really frankly a matter of us continuing to execute very well on our community banking strategy which we've been doing for 20-plus years.
We believe it really does create the best value proposition in the market.
We define value as a function of quality relative to price.
All of the feedback we get from clients and from outside statistical research is that our quality is significantly better than our major competitors’.
But we're kind of doing what we do which is consistently out there in the market delivering that value proposition.
And frankly our market is in a pretty substantial state of disruption.
I mean you have P&amp;C RBC you have Wells Wachovia.
All of that is literally just unfolding as we speak.
We have some other competitors who have balance sheet challenges.
And so we're kind of steady-state in the marketplace while others are having lots of challenges.
Now frankly lots of those challenges for some of them will go away they’ll settle down.
But for right now it's a wind of opportunity for us and we're working really hard to take advantage of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Daryl on the net interest margin as you look in the back half of this year maybe going into 2013 you have a lot of TruPS that you potentially can call.
If you can give us some color on the potential margin impact there maybe the sequence and how that may play out.
And also if you look at CD repricing it looks like there may be some additional opportunities there and what kind of impact that may have in terms of helping margins stabilize or actually improve? Sure Greg.
As far as the TruPS would play out I would probably expect the calling of all of our TruPS towards the back part of this year.
Probably in the fourth quarter is what I would expect from that perspective.
As far as our deposit cost as Kelly said earlier we were down 7 basis points on a linked-quarter basis.
We’d probably expect our deposit cost to end the year to about 40 basis points by the end of 2012.
From a long-term debt perspective we'll get a little bit of relief this year with long-term debt starts coming down but I think the bulk of that benefit will come in 2013.
And moving on we have a question from Michael Rose with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question on the loan pipelines.
Can you give a little more context and color in where the number was at the end of the quarter versus the end of last quarter? Michael this is Clarke.
As I said earlier our pipeline numbers are up about 15% on a linked-quarter basis so from the end of December to the end of March.
So again we feel really good about that and then commitments were up as well.
Our utilization is about flat so we believe with some improved utilization at some point in the future and as those pipelines pull through that's going to keep driving the growth.
Yes and one of the things Michael that happened with regard to larger corporate is that because bond rates have been so low a number of corporates went out of the banks and into the bond market.
You know that ebbs and flows and we think that was more temporary than permanent and so as -- if that subsides as we expect that'll be a lift in and of itself relative to those typical financings coming back into the banks.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then Clarke secondarily as I look at your kind of changing portfolio mix and widening geographical mix can you talk about kind of normalized credit trends once we get into a obviously a more normalized environment? Absolutely.
I mean one thing just to remind everyone our nonperforming assets are down 42% over the last year.
So I think we're very pleased about that and what we ought to expect is the rate of trajectory and improvement from here on out to be more incremental as we move toward a more normalized level.
We've kind of said before what we're trying to do in our asset diversification plan is to build a target portfolio of mix that has maybe expected losses we're guessing in the 60 to 80 basis points range on a long-term basis with lower volatility around that mean.
And so that's what we're trying to accomplish.
Obviously we're not quite there yet on the loss or the NPA side.
But so my view is it'll be more incremental from here than the sharp rate of trajectory we saw over the last 12 months.
And we will hear next from Brian Foran with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I guess as we model out the capital builds one of the things that beat what I had this quarter was the RWAs especially as we start migrating to Basel III so -- and I’ve lost the number now.
I think it was down $1.5 billion Basel III RWAs.
Is that just kind of a onetime some kind of asset running off? Or is there further ability to have the RWAs flat to down even as the loans grow? Yes Brian.
So what I can tell you is as we benefited from the OCI change it was also a benefit from that perspective.
So it's a combination of risk-weighted assets plus OCI from that perspective.
From a capital perspective I think our Basel III Tier 1 common is definitely well above where we think we need it to be once the new U.S.
rules come out.
The acquisitions that closed this quarter should take approximately 70 to 80 basis points out of Tier 1 common this quarter but we expect to build that back relatively fast over the next couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> And then on the Residential Mortgage loan growth can you just remind us how we should think about the -- or how you're thinking about the economics of growing that portfolio as opposed to a gain on sale? I mean on the one hand you've got a lot of deposits to put to work.
On the other hand gain on sales really high right now.
And also just remind us is this still more like 15-year and higher net worth mortgages that you're retaining? Or what kind of mortgages are driving that? Yes Brian right now we are keeping a 10- and 15-year mortgages.
As Clarke and Kelly said as our CRE stops running off and starts to build back we will stop retaining those mortgages and sort of start selling those out probably towards the end of this year.
We will probably still be able to still grow the balance sheet with that change and it’s still the 5% to 7% range though.
We're just changing buckets which also will help margin because the CRE will have wider credit spreads than the Residential Mortgages coming on our book.
And moving on we have a question from Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is Jessica Ribner for Paul.
Only just have 2 quick questions.
Looking at your core NIM guidance does that include rate hikes? I think Jessica right now we are with the Fed in that we don't think rates are going to rise through '14.
We think it may happen sooner than that but we are not counting on that.
So yes I would say that our margin would be in the 3.70% to 3.60% area.
If rates rise that would benefit us since we are positioned for rising rates but that's probably going to be the next couple of years.
Research Division</strong> Okay so that's not factored in.
Okay and one more if you'll allow it.
Are you seeing much HARP-related flow in the mortgage bank? Jessica this is Clarke.
We are participating in HARP 2 for our own book only.
So we did have some benefit in the first quarter.
About 30% of our retail refis were HARP-related and about 8% of our total production including correspondent.
But we haven't decided to participate in the open access program for other's book.
So HARP would not be a big story for us in the second -- in the first quarter.
And we'll move on to our question from Jonathan Feldman with Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the BankAtlantic transaction your current thoughts on it and what you're seeing in terms of deposit trends since announcing the transaction.
So Jonathan the transaction is moving very very well.
The markets down there are I would say net improving.
The retail franchise there is very stable.
When we travel down there which I did just a couple of weeks ago and meet with our FCLs and talk to our tellers and relationship bankers they are extremely positive.
When we ask them how the clients feel they're extremely excited very positive.
And clearly the merger is being viewed by the clients and the employees as a very positive factor.
So it's going very well.
The feedback I get is that deposits are relatively flat but what has happened is it has improved the mix.
Some of the CDs have gone down but transaction accounts have gone up.
And so we're seeing some upwards shift in terms of momentum.
Frankly a lot of -- they tell me a lot of clients that had left are coming back over concerns they had before.
And so really every bit of feedback we get out of the franchise is very very positive.
Research Division</strong> And one other follow-up question related to that.
In terms of -- again in terms of the transaction are you seeing any trends in terms of commercial real estate to the extent that some of the -- they were an underwriter for commercial real estate loans? You're talking about specifically Jon with regard to BankAtlantic portfolio? Research Division</strong> No BankAtlantic but also in Florida more generally I mean sort of commentary from your own experience as well as there what you think of that market what you're seeing? Yes well I'd say generally in the aggregate I would say the real estate market in Florida is stabilized and improving.
For example if you go to the Gulf Coast clearly prices have firmed up and beginning to go up.
Activity is substantially up.
If you go to Miami where as you recall there was a huge glut something like 28 000 condo units on the market.
There's been a major surge of Latin America investors coming in and the latest report I saw was that there's a -- it’s a 90% -- 93% occupancy.
So all of that is because they turned the condos into rental properties.
So there are 3 projects in Miami on -- getting ready to come out of the ground.
So I'm sure you could probably find some spots of Florida that still have some issues.
But overall I'd call it stabilized to improving.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then the last question really quickly there was a question from another individual on the call about your TruPS.
What's your current intention around the TruPS at BankAtlantic what you're assuming in terms of retiring or not retiring them? Yes what I can tell you is once we close the BankAtlantic transaction our plan is to call the TruPS at the soonest possible time.
If you look at all the TruPS that they have the vast majority are callable immediately.
I think there's 2 or 3 that might be callable later in the year.
But our plan is just to treat them just like our TruPS to call them as soon as we are able to.
And moving on we have a question from Christopher Marinac with FIG Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kelly I just wanted to dovetail your earlier comments on M&amp;A.
Is there a scenario where beyond Crump and the BankAtlantic now that nothing occurs the next 9 to 12 months and it's purely organic? Well Chris you know there's always a scenario but I think that's a little too conservative to say nothing happens.
But on the other hand I think the spirit of what you're saying is probably more right.
I don't see much -- anything big happening.
And I don't know there's little happening.
So I'd probably say nothing but I wouldn't be encouraging to see a lot of activity.
And I'm not overly concerned about that.
I mean we've got such a phenomenal opportunity on organic and if something comes along small and it really fits us strategically is well priced we'd take a look at it.
But we're really kind of are laser-focused on organic growth now and just kind of waiting out this whole merger thing ’til the metrics begin to work.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my follow-up is just about the general economy.
What's the risk in your mind that we are at a significantly slower pace of economic growth in 2 or 3 quarters compared to what you just experienced this last? I tell you I may differ some than some of these politicians and some people that want to wish and hope.
But I think that the way it looks is large corporations are doing well because remember a lot of them are focused on international.
And China's doing well 8% or 9% growth so a lot have been participating in that in India and so forth.
The large corporates are doing very well on the bottom line especially because they're doing a lot of restructurings in the process.
The feedback I get though is when you talk to small medium-size businesses they're not losing money they're growing very slowly.
They'll say to me is they'll say "Look my business is kind of okay but it's mostly because I'm really controlling my costs.
But I am so scared about what's coming out of Washington.
There's so much uncertainty.
There's so much lack of positive leadership.
I don't know what's happening in insurance.
I don't know what’s happening on taxes.
The regulators are killing me.
I'm just not be -- I'm willing to invest until I see some things change out of Washington." So I think that is a wet blanket and so my personal projection is that it's going to be a slow growth not a double-dip or anything but a slow growth 2% kind of growth maybe 2.5% for the rest of this year.
If you begin to see some indications of positive leadership out of Washington I think you'll begin to head into the end of the year and the first part of the year with a nice head of steam because there's a lot of pent-up demand.
And our next question comes from Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe a couple of question quick questions for Clarke.
Clarke are you seeing in terms of the conversations that your loan officers are having with particularly with corporate customers a better level of conversion of initial conversations or a better conversion of the pipeline that you all have talked about over the last quarter versus the second half of last year? Yes I would say what you described is accurate lots of competition lots of conversations going on so it's highly competitive.
But I think we're focused on our target profiles and we're engaging.
We are seeing more of that engagement ultimately come into the financing or the project that we're looking at.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and maybe on a related subject several banks that have reported already this quarter have talked about pricing getting a little bit more competitive.
I was intrigued by your comment that you thought that pricing was getting a little bit firmer in maybe in the last month or so.
Are you seeing any changes -- if the pricing is getting better or at least stabilizing are you seeing any degradation in terms of the structures that you're being asked to look at or BB&amp;T's being asked to look at? Great question Matt.
I would say let me qualify what we said about pricing.
Overall in the corporate space the pricing is leveling to a degree I would say and is still acceptable given the risk return trade-off.
However in the most desired spots for example funded credits or lower risk tax-exempt-type highly rated credit those are extremely competitive.
And unfortunately some of those spreads or pricing is moving and drifting back toward historical norms so -- and we are seeing if you want to reach out there and get the yield there are some softening around structures and covenants and we're just not choosing to play there or we're not -- or if you want to go to the leverage market and some of those things to get the yields.
So I'd say if you want to keep it within our risk profile it's still very very competitive but still acceptable.
And there are no more questions in the queue at this time.
Mr.
King would you like to make some closing remarks? Yes just a quick closing remark.
Thanks everybody for joining us today.
We appreciate it.
Again it was a strong quarter.
Looking forward we are optimistic.
We have some really unique opportunities.
We have a lot of diversification on our revenue stream.
We have a lot of new markets that are under-penetrated and we have a really well-developed execution strategy around our value proposition.
So while we're a little bit cautious about the economy we're very optimistic about our particular opportunities and look forward to a good quarter and a good remaining part of the year.
I hope everybody has a great day.
Thanks everyone for your questions.
And if you have any follow-ups please call us in the Investor Relations Department.
Thank you.
And again that does conclude today's call.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone.
Greetings ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the BB&amp;T Corporation Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
And it is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Alan Greer Invester Relations for BB&amp;T Corporation.
Thank you.
You may begin Alan.
Thank you Jenny and good morning everyone.
Thanks to all of our listeners for joining us today.
This call is being broadcast on the Internet from our website at bbt.com.
We have with us today Kelly King our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Daryl Bible our Chief Financial Officer; and Clarke Starnes our Chief Risk Officer who will review the results for the second quarter of 2012 as well as provide a look ahead.
We will be referencing a slide presentation during our remarks today.
A copy of the presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental financial information are available on the BB&amp;T website.
After Kelly Daryl and Clarke have made their remarks we will pause to have Jenny come back on the line and explain how you may participate in the Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin let me remind you that BB&amp;T does not provide public earnings predictions or forecasts.
However there may be statements made during the course of this call that express management's intention beliefs or expectations.
BBT's actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to be materially different is contained on Slide 2 of our presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
Our presentation includes certain non-GAAP disclosures.
Please refer to Page 2 and the appendix of our presentation for the appropriate reconciliations to GAAP.
With that I'll turn it over to Kelly.
Thank you Alan.
Good morning everybody and thanks for joining our call.
We've got a great quarter guys.
We're very excited to report our strongest net income for any quarter in our history.
We had very strong growth in revenues.
Expenses rates are down if you exclude our Crump and excellent improvement in asset quality.
So it's overall a really strong quarter.
If you look at some key performance categories.
Net income totaled $510 million which was up 66.1% versus the second quarter of '11.
EPS was $0.72 which was up 63% versus second quarter and up 72% annualized versus first quarter of '12.
And that's really a result of broad-based strong performance across all of our company operating segments.
Daryl is going to give you a lot of detail on that in just a minute.
I just want to hit a couple of highlights to give you a sense of how broad-based this is.
Our Community Bank did a great job growing deposits.
It had strong C&amp;I and direct retail loan growth.
Residential mortgage was strong again $8 billion origination quarter.
Dealer Financial Services segment had record production very strong credit quality.
Specialized Lending had a great quarter with $6 billion of loan originations.
And I'm personally really excited about Insurance.
It had a strong second quarter with 4.8% organic growth.
And then of course we also completed the Crump acquisition.
And Financial Services Corporate Banking and Wealth in particular continued to perform very well with loan growth of 54% and 38% respectively.
So a really good performance across-the-board.
If you look with me on Slide 3 in the revenue area total AFT revenues were $2.5 billion up 20.9% annualized versus the first.
Net interest income was $1.5 billion on AFT basis up 7.4% annualized to the first.
And that was really a function of margin improvement and asset growth.
In the linked quarter growth in fee income it was materially impacted by the Crump acquisition because that was significant for us.
Year-to-date total revenue totaled $4.8 billion which was up 14.2% versus the first half of last year.
In the loan area our average loans held for investment grew 6.6% versus the first annualized.
If you take average loan growth that was excluding ADC and covered portfolios and other acquired portfolios it was 9.9% annualized versus the first.
And so we had some strong growth in several categories including Other Lending Subsidiaries Mortgage Corporate Banking Direct Retail and Sales Finance.
In the deposit area the highlight there would be the non-interest-bearing deposits.
DDA grew $1.5 billion or 22.6% versus the first annualized.
Total deposits increased $742 million or 2.4%.
I'll give you the more drill down on the makeup of that in a moment.
And we continued to have nice improvement in the deposit mix and costs.
Credit quality Clarke will give you a lot of detail on this in a minute but it was overall really good.
NPAs decreased $359 million or 15.9% ex covered assets versus the first quarter.
Foreclosed real estate decreased $157 million or 41%.
Foreclosed property expenses decreased $20 million from the first quarter and NPLs decreased $196 million or 10.6%.
So you can see overall broad-based improvement there.
Had good expense control.
So if you exclude Crump Insurance noninterest expenses decreased 8.7% versus the first quarter and we were able to hold FTEs flat and the combination of those gave us a positive operating lift.
If you look at Slide 4 a little more detail with regard to loan growth.
It was really strong especially relative to the market conditions that are out there.
So you can see that our total growth was 6.6%.
But remember that we still have a material planned runoff in ADC and covered portfolios.
So excluding those total growth was 9.9%.
It was pretty broad based.
C&amp;I was 3% but I would point out that we had 1 fairly large leverage leased that expired during that period of time.
So if you ex that out it's 4.4%.
CRE is down 3.8% but recall that that has been -- that is a slowing rate of decline.
We think pretty soon that's going to bottom out and we'll begin to see growth there which we want to have because there's some really good income-producing property opportunities out there.
So we see that as a nice positive swing when that moves from a substantial negative to a positive in the near future.
Sales Finance grew 9.3% quarter-to-quarter annualized record production.
Residential Mortgage grew 20%.
Other Lending Subsidiaries grew 32%.
That was broad based by the way.
Strong growth in equipment finance.
Small tick up in consumer fees and a lot of strong growth in insurance premium finance and recall that always happens at this time of the year.
Our Grandbridge commercial mortgage was strong as was prime auto.
So direct retail was strong at 10.1%.
So you can see it was kind of across-the-board pretty strong growth again especially relative to the market.
Very pleased with our Corporate Banking space.
As you know for the last several years we've been focusing on that strategically.
It generated 54% growth in loans versus second quarter of '11.
And all of our categories gained momentum here in the quarter.
We have end-of-period loans held for investment up $2.9 billion.
Annualized rate of 10.8%.
End-of-period C&amp;I grew 8.7%.
So what really happened is we headed into the quarter it was a little low in the first part of the quarter started building momentum as we headed toward the end of the quarter and you see that in the numbers.
I would point out to you that while we've had strong for the last several quarters growth in our mortgages we have in early June discontinued for the time being holding our 10- and 15-year mortgages in portfolio frankly because the rates are just too low for our appetite right now.
I would mention to you that BankAtlantic is expected to add approximate $2 billion in loans with appropriate credit marks.
And so we still maintain our kind of guidance of expected growth in the third in the 5% to 7% range excluding BankAtlantic and contingent on the economy remaining kind of like it is.
If you look with me at Slide 5 in the deposit area it was another great quarter: Strong transaction account growth; improved mix and lower cost; DDA as I mentioned is at 22.6%; interest checking at 4.1%; money market at 7.8%.
So those account areas that we're really focusing on grew strong at 11.2% second to first annualized.
You will see a decline in our CDs.
That was by design as we're managing our funding forces and funding our cost but our total deposits at 2.4% is not really reflective of what we strategically are focusing on.
And I would mention to you that we continue to make really good progress in reducing our deposit costs.
So in the last year we have reduced it from 0.72% to 0.44%.
We still think we have a little opportunity there.
Average CD maturity is a fairly short 14 months.
So we expect similar deposit growth in the third continue to lower deposit cost.
We have a pretty good growth I think in net new retail deposit accounts at 24 000 year-to-date.
And I would again remind you that BankAtlantic is expected to add approximate $3 billion in core deposits upon consummation of that.
If you look at Slide 6 I just wanted to mention something we've talked to you a lot about over the last several years.
That is the diversification is really important to us.
We think that was one of the real challenges that many institutions had going into the last -- since the Great Recession.
We like diversification because it produces more stable revenue growth and earnings and we're very pleased we have a very diversified revenue mix.
If you look at the pie chart on Slide 6 you would see that about 48% of our revenue comes through the Community Bank 16% through Insurance.
And that's up a couple of percent because of Crump which we are pleased about.
Financial Services is up 11.7%.
Specialized Lending makes up about 7.6%.
Dealer Financial Services makes up 6.4% and Residential Mortgages makes up 10.3%.
So you can see we're diversified between the Community Bank and the non-Community Bank and then we're very diversified within the non-Community Bank which frankly gives me a lot of comfort as we think about relatively fragile overall economy and bumps and ups and downs.
We think that diversification will continue to serve us well in the future as it has in the past.
So we feel good about our diversified revenue mix.
If you look with me on Slide 7 we continue to have improvement and profitability as we make our way back to normalized earnings.
You can see that in the last year our ROA has gone up from 0.83% to 1.22%.
Our ROA GAAP has gone up from 7.25% to 11.21%.
I would point out the return on tangible common equity has gone up from 12.32% to 18.85% so obviously a material difference there that we think is important to note.
We said for the last several quarters and we continue to affirm our long term objective of ROA on GAAP basis is 1.40% to 1.50%.
We still think a return on common equity of 14% to 16% is appropriate.
Now I would point out to that that common equity return translates into return on tangible equity in the mid-20 frame so very very strong we think long term kind of normalized earnings.
There are some challenges to that that you would recognize.
Do you know -- the longer the low flat yield curve remains in place that makes it more challenging for us.
We're still trying to get our hands around the Basel III capital rules and that may require additional levels of capital.
We're still trying to sort through all of that.
So far we're pretty pleased with how we are looking relative to that.
So if you look at the quarter overall it's we think very very strong.
Our outlook remains very positive assuming the economy doesn't materially get worse.
So now let me turn to Clarke for some more detail in the credit area.
Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
I'm very pleased to report an excellent quarter of improved credit trends with very strong problem asset resolution.
In particular we've continued to execute our strategy to aggressively liquidate foreclosed real estate.
This is having a very positive impact on reducing nonperforming assets and related credit costs and certainly contributing to higher earnings growth.
So if you'll follow with me on Slide 8 you can see that total NPAs were down 15.9% on a linked quarter basis which is significantly better than the 5% to 10% guidance we gave last quarter and represents the ninth consecutive quarter with lower NPAs.
In fact total NPAs have declined approximately $1.5 billion or 43.4% over the last 12 months and now we're at the lowest level since 3Q '08.
This linked quarter decline in NPAs is driven by lower NPLs as Kelly said of about 10.6% and within that commercial NPLs were down 11.2%.
Residential Mortgage NPL is down 17.8% and direct retail NPL is down 4.3%.
So we're very pleased about that and foreclosed real estate down a large 41.5%.
I'm also particularly pleased with the strong results in our commercial book.
This quarter we had lower watch list early delinquencies performing TDRs NPLs and OREOs all across the board.
Now given these positive results and our continued focus on improving asset quality we are reiterating our guidance for a 5% of 10% reduction target in NPAs for Q3 assuming as Kelly said the economy does not deteriorate further from here.
If you'll look at Slide 9 we've continued to make significant progress in reducing foreclosed real estate.
This quarter we decreased foreclosed real estate $157 million or 41.5% compared to Q1.
And since the second quarter of last year foreclosed real estate is down $926 million or nearly 81%.
As these balances are now down to $221 million and we continue to be aggressive in our disposition as we go into the third quarter we think we'll effectively complete the targeted OREO strategy in the next couple of quarters.
Our efforts to reduce OREO include a focus on minimizing inflows which were down 33% compared to last quarter.
I'm also very pleased that we've been able to reduce inflows while also reducing charge-offs.
We continue to sell existing properties with Q2 sales activity of $143 million.
And we have approximately $70 million already in our pipeline going into Q3.
And what this is doing for us is substantially reducing our foreclosed property expense run rate.
So these expenses were down $72 million this quarter versus $92 million in Q1 or about 21.7% or 87.4% on an annualized basis.
So we expect foreclosed property expenses to continue to trend lower in Q3 and thereafter as properties are liquidated.
Turning to Slide 10.
You'll note that our charge-off ratio ex covered loans for the quarter was 1.22% which was down from 1.28% last quarter and a bit better than our previous guidance.
And Q2 losses are actually at the lowest levels in 3 years for us so we expect total charge-offs ex covered to be in the 1.15% to 1.20% range in the third quarter and to trend lower thereafter as we continue to liquidate nonperforming assets.
Given these improved credit trends we did reduce the allowance by approximately $64 million in Q2 which is essentially the same level we had in Q1.
Our reserve coverage remains we think very strong at 1.21x nonperforming loans.
So overall we feel very good about our allowance level.
So in summary we're very pleased about the solid pace of credit improvement this quarter.
And we believe the strategies that we have set in place and continue to work under are performing exceptionally well.
We expect to continue to have strong execution as we move forward.
So with that let me turn it over to Daryl for his comments on the quarter.
Thank you Clark and good morning everyone.
I'm going to take the next few minutes to discuss net interest margin the securities portfolio fee income noninterest expense capital and our segment reporting.
Continuing on Slide 11 net interest margin came in strong at 3.95% up 2 basis points from last quarter and above our guidance because of the early TRuPS redemption.
However margin would have been 3.87% without the TRuPS redemption.
The margin benefits include 4 key drivers.
First an improving asset mix as our Specialized Lending businesses grow faster than other lending categories.
Second we also continue to see CRE runoffs slowing which will have a positive income impact on margin.
As we saw in June we discontinued holding the conforming 10- and 15-year mortgages in the portfolio.
That change will be more noticeable in the mortgage loan growth later this year.
Even so our loan growth expectations remain in the 5% to 7% range as Kelly shared.
Third lower interest-bearing deposit costs continue to benefit margin.
These costs decreased 5 basis points to 44 basis points this quarter.
Finally longer term debt costs from the early TRuPS redemption.
Offsetting these positives are the lower interest rate environment and the runoff of the higher-yielding covered assets.
As Kelly mentioned net interest income was up 7.4% annualized from the last quarter due to the improved margin and a 5% annualized increase in average earning assets.
With regard to margin outlook we expect the margin to be in the 3.90% to 3.95% range in the second half of the year due to the factors I just described.
As you can see on Slide 11 we remain slightly asset sensitive and are positioned for rising rates.
Turning to Slide 12.
As you know we consistently maintain a low-risk securities portfolio.
Given the low yields available for new investments we plan to be selective about reinvesting our cash in the second half of the year.
This strategy will slow the growth of earning assets as security balances trend down.
The portfolio duration is 2.8 years and our premium is 1.3% ensuring a relatively stable yield.
On Slide 13 our fee income ratio in the second quarter increased to 42.4% compared to 41% in the first quarter.
Insurance income was up $122 million with the Crump acquisition accounting for $77 million of the increase.
The remaining increase reflects 5.7% growth compared to second quarter 2011 and seasonally stronger growth compared to first quarter 2012.
We also continue to see evidence of some firming in market pricing.
Mortgage banking income was down $34 million compared to a very strong first quarter due to lower gains on loans sold and $20 million lower in MSR gains.
We expect mortgage banking to remain at a similar level in the third quarter.
That change in the FDIC loss share income was mostly due to negative accretion uncovered securities and the impact of cash flow reassessments.
We expect the FDIC loss share impact to be $10 million to $15 million lower next quarter although this is difficult to project.
Other income increased $12 million compared to the first quarter 2012 as a result of $42 million in write-downs on affordable housing investments last quarter offset this quarter by $21 million in lower income on assets for post-employment benefits this quarter.
Looking on Slide 14 our efficiency ratio increased to 53.9% compared to 52% last quarter largely due to the acquisition of Crump as we described last quarter.
Compared to last year we produced positive operating leverage this quarter and we expect this -- that trend to continue.
Personnel expense increased $45 million because of $69 million in higher compensation costs related to the Crump acquisition and higher incentives partially offset by $23 million in post-employment benefit expense.
Excluding Crump FTEs were flat this quarter compared to last quarter.
As expected foreclosed property expense decreased $20 million due to fewer valuation write-downs and significantly lower inventory of foreclosed property expense.
And as Clarke mentioned we expect foreclosed property expense to continue to decline throughout 2012.
Merger-related and restructuring expenses were lower than expected because of a delayed BankAtlantic closing.
We expect about $50 million in these expenses in the third quarter.
Crump added $64 million in expenses this quarter and $7 million in amortization.
Without these expenses noninterest expense would've been down $30 million or 8.7% on an annualized basis.
The details of the Visa settlement are largely unknown at this point but we expect the impact on BB&amp;T to be immaterial.
Finally the tax rate for the quarter was 26.2%.
We expect the rate to be up slightly in the third quarter.
Looking on Slide 15 our capital ratios remain very strong and include the impact of the Crump acquisition and the redemption of our TRuPS outstanding.
Tier 1 common under Basel I fell slightly to 9.7%.
We expect the third quarter 2012 Tier 1 common ratio under Basel I to be around 9.5% including BankAtlantic.
We estimate our Tier 1 common under the recently issued Basel III rules to be approximately 8.2%.
However this does not include any mitigating actions we will take to improve our capital ratios.
Risk rates were higher in the calculation driven by LTVs on residential mortgages and the credit conversion factor for unfunded lending commitments.
We believe over time we can significantly reduce the impact of our risk-weighted assets.
We are very comfortable with our Basel III capital levels and feel that we have the flexibility to take advantage of opportunities.
We had a very successful perpetual preferred offering last quarter with the second lowest coupon in the history for our bank.
We will be opportunistic about issuing additional preferring.
Now let me point out a few highlights in our segment disclosures.
Turning to Slide 16.
First Community Bank net income totaled $177 million up $72 million versus linked quarter.
The main drivers include loan growth lower foreclosed property expense and lower regulatory costs.
Second our Direct Retail lending continues to be strong with 10% linked quarter growth.
Third commercial loan pipeline increased 24% compared to first quarter 2012 as we continue to have a positive outlook for loan growth.
Finally we experienced solid growth in several payment categories especially merchant services which was up 12%.
Turning to Slide 17 Residential Mortgage was down $59 million on a linked quarter basis from a very strong first quarter but up sharply compared to second quarter last year.
The main drivers include continued strong originations increased gains on the sale and lighter spreads compared to last year.
The loan loss provision is lower compared to last year due to improved credit trends updated loss factors and the impact of last year's sale of nonperforming loans.
Year-over-year portfolio growth increased substantially with loan service for others growing 8.3%.
With lower rates and resulting refi boom 59% of our production this quarter was from refinance.
However our purchases are up 48% compared to last year.
Turning to Slide 18 Dealer Financial Services achieved record loan production for the quarter in both prime and non-prime auto lending.
Net income for this segment totaled $60 million with regional acceptance achieving higher net interest income due to higher margins.
Regional Acceptance losses remained very low and our prime auto losses were also low at 24 basis points.
We continue to open new offices in strong growth markets and are expanding our floor plan financing strategy.
On Slide 19 you can see Specialized Lending experienced a strong quarter with net income of $65 million.
Loan production increased 19.5% versus first quarter with seasonally strong contribution from the insurance premium finance.
Higher net interest income was driven by exceptional growth in Sheffield Financial Equipment Finance and Mortgage Warehouse Lending.
We are pleased to have an improved operating margin in this segment as a result of a strong focus on efficiency.
Moving to Slide 20 Insurance Services generated $66 million in net income up significantly compared to both common and linked quarter basis.
Increased revenue was broad based in almost all insurance businesses.
The growth was driven by improved organic growth as the insurance market is showing signs of hardening and growth due to acquisitions.
We continue to anticipate future organic revenue growth but will have lower revenue in the third quarter due to seasonality.
Turning to Slide 21.
Financial Services generated $63 million in net income primarily driven by Corporate Banking and Wealth Management.
These businesses had well growth of 54% and 38% respectively.
Investments in Wealth and Corporate Banking revenue producers drove higher noninterest expense for the quarter.
We continue to see opportunities in middle market corporate lending and have higher loan commitments versus last quarter.
With that let me turn it back over to Kelly for closing remarks and Q&amp;A.
Thank you Daryl and Clarke.
And just as an overall statement I'd say we had a strong quarter our best earnings ever as I've mentioned broad-based performance.
What you see from us I think is what we promised you several years ago very strong execution on our strategy and diversification and intense -- focusing on execution on the basics.
And we're not a complex company but we execute the basics in banking very very well.
I'll give you as one final example of that we just received in the last few days a notice from J.D.
Power and Associates that we are now being recognized as #1 in mortgage servicing quality for the third year in a row.
So we are very pleased with our quarter and now I'll turn to Alan to you for questions.
Thank you Kelly.
At this time we would ask Jenny to come back on the line and explain how you may participate in the Q&amp;A process.
As in our normal practice we would ask that you would limit your questions to one primary question and one follow-up so that others may participate in the queue.
If you have additional questions please get back into queue and we will recognize you again.
Jenny? [Operator Instructions] And we will go first to Jefferson Harrelson with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> If you guys had to write a comment letter on 1 or 2 pieces of the recent NPRs if you think about the timing issue the capital limitations the buffers risk waive and hedging of balance sheet of CI and capital those things I guess is there 1 or 2 do you have focus on? Or do you think that should be changed in the rules that are being proposed? Jefferson this is Daryl.
When I look at it and you can debate what the capital levels should be in some of the categories but clearly the Residential Mortgage is getting hit really hard and the higher capital in this mortgage area will definitely have an impact on the economy longer term.
Unless the classifications between a Category 1 and Category 2 a lot of mortgages are going from -- to the higher category.
They're going to double in capital and maybe quadruple depending on how it's underwritten and how that -- it's calculated.
Other areas the unfunded loan commitments under a year does it have a capital charge now can it have a capital charge? Banks will probably have to either charge higher to get more revenue or the structure is going to change and we won't be doing any year and under unfunded commitment.
So there's a lot of areas where they're going to raise capital charges and it's going to have an impact on the economy and growth for sure.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And a follow-up if you think about OCI now being in regulatory capital is that going to just translate maybe into a smaller securities book? So you guys have strengthened yours more held to maturity maybe more -- holding more mortgages or maybe just holding more capital? How do you think that's going to affect how you run your bank and your balance sheet? You bring up a lot of good points.
Obviously with OCI and the calculation we have to maintain a nice healthy margin above the minimum level.
So you will see us operate at a level probably 150 basis points at least over what we have to target our capital ratios.
We also -- as you see I think we're one of the banks that have the largest percentage of securities and held to maturity.
Right now a third of our securities are in there to avoid some of that -- the risk there.
And you could see you have to weigh the size of the investment portfolio also against some of the liquidity rules that are coming out.
They kind of go against and contradict each other.
But I think overall that the size of the investment portfolio could potentially be impacted as well.
You definitely have a lot of different drivers there and you're just trying optimize the best you can without taking undue risk.
And we will go to our next question from Greg Ketron from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I just have a couple of questions one on the Crump contribution maybe for the insurance segment in general.
Can you highlight what the Crump contribution was for the quarter? And then as you look longer term in insurance maybe what operating margin you think you can achieve in that business overall? You're right.
The contribution specifically on revenue for the quarter was about $77 million which is in line with what we expected.
Recall that that company is primarily bringing us revenue in the wholesale life business.
It does have some wholesale property and casualty.
What we like about it is in -- particularly in the life side is that life insurance is number 1 much more stable than P&amp;C and it has higher margins.
So you think about property and casualty EBITDA at one time at being about 20% and life at about 30%.
So it's substantially more -- has a better margin.
And we like that because again it's just balances out our whole insurance business.
So it's an exciting opportunity.
And I would mention to you Greg that even though it's fairly early now we've had 90 days or so under our belt of being in the family.
Everything we see is better than what we thought.
So the synergistic opportunities the quality of the staff the product making the brand that they have out in the marketplace is just absolutely fantastic.
So it's a home run.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on the loan growth if you can kind of highlight you're seeing growth in mortgage the other lending subsidiaries direct retail.
Maybe some of the rates and spreads that you're seeing across these businesses and -- is that an area that we will continue to focus on as we progress in 2012? Hey Greg.
This is Clarke Starnes and I know Daryl can chip in too.
But our spreads are holding up pretty well on our C&amp;I and Corporate Banking we're in about the 2.44% 2.45% range which is pretty good.
CRE for us is typically about 100 basis points above that.
So we feel good about that.
Our home equity spreads right now are north of 200 basis points and certainly we watch that.
We'd expect it to maybe get a little bit better over time.
Our Sales Finance which is where prime auto is is about 1.90% overall.
And then obviously the Specialized Lending business is much higher than that.
So we feel really good about our ability to hold our spreads up in a very very competitive environment.
We think that mix gives us a overall yield advantage with a nice risk adjusted return.
And we will hear next from Todd Hagerman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Daryl I just wanted to follow up on your margin outlook and the guidance there raising the number.
First I don't know if you mentioned are the BankAtlantic and the purchase accounting adjustments that you'll be making there as well as the -- you announced I think today the trust preferred redemption of $2.5 billion.
How does that influence your margin outlook with the various dynamics that you kind of walked through in terms of how you're getting to that 3.90% 3.95%? Okay.
So if you look at it this quarter we benefited in margin by the TRuPS redemption.
We've got additional $29 million because we're able to amortize that -- some of that fee gain this quarter.
The rest of that will come in the first part of July.
All the TRuPS that we called were out of the books this week.
So when you look at that we actually lose that coupon from the -- now until the end of the year.
That's real money that we didn't have at our forecast before.
That's another $70 million of earnings that we had although we have to pay higher interest cost on there.
The other thing that we're doing as we mentioned it in our opening comments is we're going to be selective in reinvesting our investment cash flows.
So that's going to shrink our investments a little bit.
Earning assets will still grow but it's going to be driven by loan growth.
But we are doing that in conjunction with not issuing debt.
There's a negative spread right now between your investment yields and what you have to -- cost to borrow so -- but that strategy actually adds another $15 million to $20 million to net interest income.
That actually improves margin.
So those are some of the strategies that we have to improve margin this year and in the next year.
As far as BankAtlantic goes we expect that to close and be on our books starting August 1.
We have some purchase accounting in there but it's really not a big driver to the numbers that you're seeing.
The mark there isn't a huge mark compared to what we have with Colonial so it's not going to be a large impact there.
It's so small to the size of the company it's not going to really be a big driver.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just to make sure I'm clear on the TRuPS announcement today you mentioned that $70 million -- I'm sorry I didn't get the offset to that in terms of how you're losing that $70 million and on -- in terms of replacement or lack thereof on the funding side.
Yes.
So remember when we had -- when we've talked last quarter we had our TRuPS coming out in the fourth quarter of this year.
So we're basically -- by the MPR coming out we're able to call our TRuPS early.
So we amortized that remaining gain a little bit in July and -- in June and July.
But then those securities the debt has gone off our books this week.
So we're basically replacing that with just funding that we have in deposits within the company and we're shrinking our investment securities to help fund that.
All that is positive drivers to net interest income and margin.
And we'll go to our next question from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can you comment a little bit on loan pricing specifically in the C&amp;I? Your yields held up well actually up a couple of basis points quarter-to-quarter.
And we're seeing that from actually a couple of other banks as well and it seems to be contradicting what the said lending survey shows which is a pretty big decline in loan pricing on C&amp;I.
So just kind of a general comment or a general question on C&amp;I pricing and then specifically what's driving your yield up a little bit.
Hey Matt.
This is Clarke.
What we've seen is actually a little bit of firming particularly in the corporate space particularly around the near-investment grade.
Our investment grade continues to be very very competitive but it's firmed up a little bit.
So we feel really good about that.
And that's probably what you're hearing the most about.
It's still very very competitive on the small business side.
And the Community Bank-type originations and that's probably reflecting in the Fed survey to a degree.
But again from our standpoint we are very focused on the yields that we get and the type of clients that we go after.
So we will let credits go overpricing and that's one reason you've seen us hold up our margin really well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a separate topic.
As you think about the OREO balances coming down it sounds like pretty close to 0 or an insignificant amount on the balance.
I mean the cost did those come down close to 0 too in a couple of quarters? Or what's kind of like a more run rate cost if the balance itself is really really low? Matt our foreclosure cost will continue to come down.
It won't come down to 0 though.
I mean we still have some NPLs that are being worked through and need to go through the cycle.
Our inflows are coming down but it's probably going to take another year to 1.5 years before those balances get to more de minimis levels.
But definitely the trajectory is down in foreclosure expense but it won't be to 0 this year.
And we'll hear next from John Pancari with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Can you discuss in more detail the potential mitigators to the Basel III NPR impact that you indicated? I know you mentioned the Jefferson and a couple items but I just want to get some more detail on what you can do to mitigate that impact? Sure John.
Some easy things we can do we've identified -- so we're at 8.2% right now and we are -- this is a very conservative number.
We're assuming all the worst in how we are interpreting the language right now.
Obviously we aren't 100% sure in how it's all going to be applied so we're trying to be very conservative in this number and this number is what it is today without any mitigation whatsoever.
I know others this past week or so have added mitigation added earnings over time and all that.
This is what the number is today.
So very very conservative.
Just a couple things we could do we think easily if you look at the commercial construction book they have a certain percentage of equity that needs to be funded in there.
We just need to tweak our rules just a little bit on how we underwrite to get within so that all of our construction loans follow within that 15%.
Clarke feels very comfortable that that's doable over the next year or 2.
And that area if you look at it is our home equity lines right now.
They're variable rate they have no caps on them.
We can move them from Category 2 to Category 1 just by putting some annual and lifetime caps on that.
Those strategies right there raise our capital from 8.2% to 8.5% off of the numbers we have today.
So we definitely think and we're going to get together and continue to work on trying to optimize these rules.
Obviously these rules aren't final yet but we feel very comfortable and confident that our Basel III numbers will be strong and we still have a lot of financial flexibility.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separately can you discuss your thought process around the potential issuance of capital to support the Basel guidelines as you indicated in your prepared comments and I guess specifically around timing amount and then type of capital? John all I can say is that I think if you look at these Basel III rules long term you really want to maximize the 150 basis points that's allowed between Tier 1 Common and Tier 1.
So we will be opportunistic and try to issue preferred qualifying capital at times we think are advantageous to us to issue to kind of fill that up.
We did a great issuance this past quarter and we will look for opportunities to do that.
We just think longer term when you look at your capital stack we believe we really want to fill that extra 150 basis points up there just so we have strong Tier 1 Common strong Tier 1 and strong total and leverage numbers all very strong regulatory capital.
We will go next to Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question for you and I may have missed this and I apologize but are you guys with the Federal Reserve indicating that the U.S.
economy is decelerating? Are you guys seeing in your June numbers or your early July numbers any evidence that business is slowing down in your footprint? Gerard this is Kelly.
I would say if you look at our specific numbers it would not affirm the slowdown because as I indicated earlier we actually have momentum building through the -- during the quarter.
But if you look at what we actually think what I actually think is happening in the economy there's no question that it is slowing.
And you've certainly seen that in most recent jobs numbers and retail sales numbers et cetera.
And anecdotally just the problem I've noted during traveling in our regions a lot I've talked to lots of business people and everybody you talk to is getting more nervous by the moment because of the uncertainty.
I mean we're heading towards this abysmal cliff and people are getting really focused on it now.
So no question in my mind the economy is slowing.
I personally think it will continue to slow throughout the end of the year until we see what happens in Washington.
But I would be very clear to say that we do not translate that into a dismal look -- forward look with regard to our own performance.
We actually as I said before affirming our loan growth we got is in the 5% to 7% range.
But to be honest with you Gerard it's because of -- we are moving market share and we have a lot of business coming our way today some of the institutions have passed have some downgrades frankly and ratings and other circumstances that have caused clients actually to seek us out.
Our strategies in Corporate Banking Wealth Banking Specialized Lending et cetera are executing extraordinarily well.
We're just really fortunate that we've got some really unique opportunities in places like Alabama and Texas Florida that we're able to move market share just because of our brand value.
LLC Research Division</strong> And the second question is more of a technical question.
On the Residential Mortgage loan sales that you had in the quarter what were the spreads that you were able to garner? And how did those spreads compare to what you achieved in the first quarter? Are you talking about the mortgages or the OREO assets Gerard? LLC Research Division</strong> The mortgages the gain on sale of the mortgages of the residential origination.
We were about 2.12% with our spreads.
That was actually a little bit lighter than first quarter.
So as your pipelines fill up you are able to basically just have lighter spreads because the pipelines are full and everything is just able to get higher margins.
And we will go next to Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Daryl I appreciate the comments that you made on the margin over the near term.
But I was wondering if you could give us a little bit of insight into how we should think about 2013.
So it sounds like there are actually some asset remix opportunities that will support the margin in the second half of the year.
In 2013 it feels like for the industry not just for BB&amp;T some of the funding cost savings are probably going to taper off.
I guess I'm just wondering a if we would continue in terms of reconsidering remixing your assets to support the margin in 2013 if we're staying in this rate environment.
And b do you have a sense of what sort of a range is for your margin in 2013 if you have the kind of loan growth momentum that you're experiencing but we're staying in this rate environment for longer? Erika this is still a very challenging marketplace with a low slow rate environment.
And over time the lower yields definitely does put pressure on margins and all that.
I think our key really to counteract that is to continue to price our funding costs and those should continue to come down and I think that will continue to come down into '13.
We're at 44 basis points interest-bearing deposits.
We are not out of gas there yet so those can still come down and believe that's definitely still doable.
If you look at our long term debt we'll have some maturities next year that we can basically replace at lower cost there so all of that should be positive.
On the asset side I think you hit a very excellent point.
You really just need to drive your assets and try to focus and grow the ones that are the higher yield.
So our specialty businesses are growing 3x faster than the total portfolio.
CRE is 100 basis points higher than C&amp;I as Clarke said.
So those portfolio should be growing as we're expecting.
That said I'm sure margin will still come down from 3.90% in 2013.
But our ability to continue to reprice and counteract those things I think will make it more manageable as we get into '13 and '14.
Erika I would also add -- and this is intuitive but I think as we go forward and everyone experiences more of the real effect of a prolonged low slight yield curve everybody's running out of gas.
Most have run out of gas earlier than us on that.
And as everybody contemplates the shifts in terms of capital requirements on Basel et cetera all of that is going to cause in my view everybody to get firmer with regard to pricing.
Our industry tends to ebb and flow in terms of how we price relative to the risk and we tend to do a better job when we get under pressure.
And I think we're under pressure now and I think that would put pressure on the margin and you heard Clark talk about this firming already just in the last 90 days or so with regard to some corporate space bookings.
So we'll see how that works out but I personally think you will see a bit more rationality flow through loan pricing as we go forward.
Your next question comes from Michael Rose with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on -- just a follow-up question on the margin.
I think your longer term guidance is 3.60% to 3.70% if I remember correctly.
Does that include the redemption of the TRuPS and kind of how you think about the margin longer term with the actions that you've taken? Yes Michael.
I think when you look at it over the next 2 to 3 years if you look at the TRuPS redemption I'm having 3.60% to 3.70% as still in that ballpark it's really dependent on how long the rate environment is and how long that lasts.
We still have our covered assets that are running off for the next couple of years but that guidance has not changed longer term.
And next we'll go to Paul Miller with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I have a quick balance sheet question and then an overview question.
On the residential mortgage loans you're putting on your books are they mainly jumbos? And what prices are you putting them on and what duration? I can give you the mix Paul and Daryl can give you the spreads.
But for the quarter we put $2.1 billion on our balance sheet.
About 34% of those were the 10 and 15 years which was about at $712 million.
That's what will no longer be portfolio.
And 26% were ARMs and about 40% were jumbos and affordable.
An so you can see what we'll be holding going forward is primarily variable rates so...
Yes.
If you look at the spreads on that Paul the 10- and 15-year conforming had spreads about 3.30% was the -- that was the rate on it the spreads were 1.20%.
But if you look at new originations now the 10- and 15-year rates are under 3% to probably 2.75% and 2.875%.
So we really don't want to have that asset on our books for the next 5 years.
Research Division</strong> So are we -- and are you guiding for lower growth in that residential portfolio because of that? Yes we are.
Research Division</strong> And then on the -- an overview question there's a lot of media reports about the state of Florida in full recovery with the housing.
I just wonder what you're seeing down there.
I know that's probably one of the areas you pick up a lot of market share because a lot of banks are in trouble down there.
But do you feel it's in a recovery mode down there whichever of you down in Florida? Well I think we are very bullish really on Florida have been frankly through the whole cycle because it's such a long term attractive market.
But really in the last 12 months it's been a pretty dramatic change in Florida.
In  Miami for example a year ago there were 24 000 unoccupied condo units.
And now they're virtually all gone.
I think it's like a 5% vacancy rate.
There are like 3 buildings under construction.
So what happened is an awful lot of smart money out of Latin America came in and sucked up all the inventory and put it in the runoffs and that stabilized that market and that's why you're now beginning to see some positive growth in terms of the real estate sector.
And the overall trends in terms of  in migration versus -- we had a year or so of out migration all of that has changed.
I'm not saying it's booming but based on all the feedback we get from our folks down there and all the general macro data we get it looks to me like it's dramatically better than it was 2 3 years ago and it's steadily improving every day.
And we will hear next from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Kelly to your point earlier about the environment remaining tough -- the other thing that you guys can obviously you in the industry could control is expenses.
I wanted to first of all just ask you kind of where your are with that internal plan that you've been going on.
And then I'll let you answer that one and I have just some follow-ups on some of the particulars of the recent acquisitions.
Yes Ken.
We continue to be very vigilant about the execution.
I'll visit 2 parts of that.
What we started maybe 9 months ago was the reconceptualization in the expense area.
And recall that the way we're approaching that and frankly it's working perfectly is to challenge our business leaders to go and then reconceptualize their business from a clean sheet of paper with the overview from us that it's a new world.
And thinking about your businesses today the way you did 5 years ago or a year ago is unappropriate.
So think about your businesses as we currently see the new environment.
All of our business lines are challenged for those plans from an expense perspective they did.
We're now in the execution phase of that.
And the projections are exceeding what we had expected.
We're now right in the middle of launching the second phase of that which is reconceptualization on the revenue side and we're going through the very same process where all of our business leaders are putting together revenue optimization plans and we present it up through and roll that to executive management and then as we head in the latter part of this year will be an execution about a follow-on through next year.
So that's a 2-part plan it's going extraordinarily well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And my follow-ups are more just technical and the numbers.
Crump now probably adds a little bit more second quarter seasonality and then we got the BankAtlantic deal closing.
So I'm wondering if you can help us understand how to understand the new kind of second to third seasonality from insurance and then how much BBX will add in expenses so we can kind of get an understanding of the forward run rate? So on Crump with regard to the second quarter seasonality that won't be as much as you might think.
It will be a little bit of add to that as it relates to their Property and Casualty business.
But Life won't be so much that I remember Life is kind of a monthly paid kind of thing versus P&amp;C is kind of like you pay in the second quarter and the fourth quarter.
So I wouldn't think much about Crump changing our second quarter seasonality.
I was just thinking about it being absolutely more income.
In terms of BBX Daryl maybe you have some color for that? Yes.
So for BBX it's not significant from a total number.
But it's a little less after that we marked.
Well that's a little less than $2 billion in loans that will come on the books.
Yields on those loans should be very close to what the yields are on our current outstandings.
And then on deposit side we get I think about $3.4 billion in deposits.
Here 90% of these deposits are non-CDs all very good core funding.
And you get a little bit of fee income pickup from there from service charges and some other things but that's really the main drivers that you have with BankAtlantic.
And we will go next to Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just -- Daryl let me follow up on the NIM question with a couple of questions on your ability to continue to lower your interest-bearing deposit costs and your long term debt costs.
And you mentioned BankAtlantic providing about 90% of its deposits are core funded.
What are the costs of those deposits relative to your deposit costs now? So I'll start with the latter part first Matt.
The deposit cost are higher than ours.
I think over time we will rationalize those costs.
But it won't be all at once we will do it over time.
We take a measured of approach on BankAtlantic's deposit cost so they get used to BB&amp;T and our culture and how we deliver our quality products and services.
But I think over the next couple of years it's going to be very good core stable funding for us.
But it won't have an immediate impact on us.
But you have the mark-to-market accounting there so you shouldn't see a big impact on the deposit cost.
Then on -- what's the other part of your question Matt? LLC Research Division</strong> Your ability to reduce your own deposit costs and long term debt cost? Yes.
So we're at 44 basis points.
Right now we feel that the CD runoff and some sale adjustments in our MMDA accounts we can probably approach 30 basis points over the next several quarters so I think all of that is doable and in forecast assuming rates stay low for a long period of time that's something that we can definitely accomplish.
And that concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
King at this time I'd like to turn the conference over -- back over to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you very much and just thanks everybody for joining us today.
We really appreciate your support today and on an ongoing basis.
Again we feel very excited about the quarter.
It's interesting where I think the industry is selling into is the differentiation between high performance and low performance it's going to be about execution.
That's what BB&amp;T always has been great at it's what we'll remain great at and so we are -- relative to the environment we are very very optimistic about our performance as we go forward.
Thanks very much everybody and I hope you have a great day.
And again that does conclude the call.
We thank you everyone for participating today.
Greetings ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the BB&amp;T Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call on October 18 2012.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Alan Greer Investor Relations for BB&amp;T.
Mr.
Greer you may begin.
Thank you Katie and good morning everyone and thanks to our listeners for joining us today.
This call is being broadcast on the Internet from our website at bbt.com.
We have with us today Kelly King our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Daryl Bible our Chief Financial Officer.
We will review results for the third quarter as well as provide a look ahead.
We also have other members of our executive management team who are with us to participate in the question-and-answer session: Chris Henson our Chief Operating Officer; Ricky Brown the President of Community Banking; and Clarke Starnes our Chief Risk Officer.
The team will be available along with Kelly and Daryl during Q&amp;A.
We will be referencing a slide presentation during our remarks today.
A copy of the presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental financial information are available on the BB&amp;T website.
After Kelly and Daryl have made their remarks we will pause to have the operator come back on the line and explain how you may participate in the Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin let me remind you that BB&amp;T does not provide public earnings predictions or forecasts.
However there may be statements made during the course of the call that express management's intentions beliefs or expectations.
BB&amp;T's actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to be materially different are contained in the slide -- on Slide 2 of our presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
Our presentation also includes certain non-GAAP disclosures.
Please refer to Page 2 in the appendix of our presentation for the appropriate reconciliations to GAAP.
And now I will turn it over to Kelly.
Thank you Alan.
Good morning everybody and thanks for taking time to join our call.
Overall I feel like we had very strong results this quarter especially given the kind of softening economy.
We had pretty strong performance all across our operating segments.
I would ask you to remember that insurance is seasonally lower for us in the third quarter and we do expect it to be stronger in the fourth.
So if you look at net income we totaled $469 million which was up 28.1% versus third quarter.
Diluted EPS was $0.66 up 26.9% versus third quarter.
That was reduced by $0.04 merger-related charges.
And overall all the segments as indicated were pretty strong in terms of performance.
Daryl is going to give you some detail color with regard to the segments but I just wanted to mention a few general points in my summary or general comments.
First of all our Community Bank did a really good job continuing this quarter in growing deposits had very strong performance in C&amp;I and Direct Retail lending.
Residential Mortgage as you could see had another really strong quarter produced $8.2 billion in originations.
So they're very strong performance in production and earnings.
Data financial services segment had a steady production strong quality.
I will point out that the pricing competition is pretty tough out there in the segment but we're doing relatively well.
Specialized Lending had a good quarter with strong loan growth.
Insurance as I indicated was seasonally slower but we're expecting a strong fourth quarter.
The overall insurance premiums are continuing to firm up particularly in the wholesale side and we're very fortunate we participate on wholesale and retail so we'd feel good about that.
In Financial Services area our Corporate Banking area continues to exhibit strong performance and we're really pleased with our Wealth team results.
They're executing on the strategies there very well.
So overall performance in the segments was very very good.
Year-to-date total revenues were up $7.3 billion up 12.5% versus last year.
I would point out that revenues again I think are strong given seasonality.
There is some impact in terms of these revenue numbers I'm covering in terms of a partial quarter of BankAtlantic.
So total FTE revenues were up $2.5 billion or 4.4% annualized so we feel good about that.
Net interest income totaled $1.5 billion which was up 5.3% annualized versus second quarter of '12 so good performance in the revenue side.
In the loan area which is an interesting challenge for all of us in the industry now our average loan growth was 12.6% annualized versus second quarter.
Second quarter was helped somewhat by BankAtlantic with strong performance in other lending subsidiaries: Mortgage C&amp;I Direct Retail and Revolving Credit.
If you do exclude BankAtlantic average loans increased 8.4% annualized.
Another strong performance in deposit area average total deposits increased $3.3 billion or 10.6% annualized versus the second had a nice improvement in deposit mix and cost.
For example if you exclude BankAtlantic non-interest-bearing deposits increased 25% on an annualized linked-quarter basis so a really good deposit performance again.
Another strong quarter in credit quality improvement.
NPAs decreased $179 million or 7.4% (sic) [9.4%] versus the second quarter.
That's x covered assets.
Foreclosed real estate balances decreased another strong $82 million or 37%.
Foreclosed property expense continued to come down decreased $18 million from second quarter or 25% so a nice improvement in the credit area.
And we're doing a really good job in expense management.
This exclude BankAtlantic and other selected items.
Our noninterest expenses increased less than 1% so we feel good about controlled expenses.
If you look on Slide 4 we did have a couple of unusual items.
In the merger-related and restructuring charges area that's mostly BankAtlantic.
That was $43 million.
That was pretax.
That was about $0.04 diluted earnings per share.
In loan processing expenses we did have elevated repurchase expenses that were related to better identification of unrecoverable costs associated with some investor-owned loans but we do expect that next quarter to return to more normalized level.
If you look on Slide 5 we're very pleased with our overall loan growth.
If you count them it's a little bit noisy this time but if you look at our total growth including BankAtlantic it's a very strong 12.6% particularly strong at 15.7% if you exclude the run-off portfolios of ADC area and covered loans.
Now if you exclude BankAtlantic it's still a very strong 8.4% and which was above our guidance of 5% to 7%.
And again if you exclude those run-off portfolios it's 11.2%.
So even without BankAtlantic it was a very strong quarter.
In terms of the categories we feel really good about C&amp;I.
That was a very strong 12.4%.
I will point out that the C&amp;I market out there is very very competitive.
We are holding to our discipline and not doing leveraged financing and other forms of high hold positions in syndicated lending so we're still being conservative relative to the market.
But -- so we feel particularly good relatively about that.
In other CRE as you can see excluding BankAtlantic it was basically flat down slightly.
I will point out that that's an emerging opportunity for us because as you know that's been running off really from the last several years and we certainly think it's opportunistic now for us to get back more aggressively involved in that market.
And so probably be careful on the credit.
That's going to be a nice opportunity for us as the runoff discontinues and the growth opportunities replace that.
Sales Finance had a strong performance at 5.1%.
Residential Mortgage x BankAtlantic was 15.7%.
I will point out that it will decline as we go forward.
Recall that in the second quarter that we chose to not hold most of our 10- and 15-year paper.
And so as we go on through the fourth and the first you'll see a gradual decline in that portfolio.
In other lending subsidiaries we had a very strong 26.7%.
Recall that we do have seasonality in that business particularly in our AFCO/CAFO unit and so that'll be a little seasonally softer in the fourth quarter.
So some ups and downs but overall a good performance.
If you look at next year I'll be honest with you guys.
It's just really challenging to think about what next year is going to be.
I mean the economy is slowing.
There's an awful lot of hesitation out there in the marketplace.
You've heard me talk about this before.
As I talk to business people they're all basically sitting on their hands.
They're scared to death about increasing taxes increasing regulatory costs increasing health care costs.
And so the ones I'll talk to you are just basically waiting for the election hoping some more positive leadership and hoping for some certainty with regard to how to run their businesses.
So with all of that said I'll just point out that it's hard to project what's going to happen in this environment.
We'll have a better feel for that I think after the elections.
But even given that I've -- I got see you in that context for next year would be continuing at 5% to 7%.
And I would point out that that is nominal growth so that would include impact of BankAtlantic.
And so we feel like that's a strong growth especially given that other lending subsidiaries as I pointed out will have some slowness in seasonality.
Mortgage will be slowing some because of the 10- to 15-year decision.
So those are the negatives.
On the other hand we expect solid C&amp;I growth very challenging very competitive but our op [ph] team is doing a really good job on that.
I will point out that at the end of the period loans are up $3.1 billion or 11% so we do have a good start as we head into the fourth quarter.
Turning to Slide 6 take a minute to look at deposits.
We feel really good about deposits given what we're trying to do which is to manage our cost and improve our mix.
And so as you can see total deposits excluding BankAtlantic was up 3.3% 10.6% including BankAtlantic.
And I will remind you that I mentioned x BankAtlantic to give you a sense of organic but a lot of hard work went into bringing BankAtlantic in so it is real growth and it is real earning assets and good deposits.
If you take out the effect of CDs which we'll continue to manage that portfolio very carefully they were down 8.4%.
So above the line of CDs we're up 6% even adjusting for BankAtlantic.
Most importantly I think our non-interest-bearing deposits even adjusted for BankAtlantic are up a very strong 25%.
That's what we're trying to do is control our costs and grow our basic transaction DDA accounts and that's working very very well.
So if you think about our deposit strategy right now come you got a kind of a slowing economy you got some questions about loan growth so it makes sense to focus on DDA growth and controlling the costs which is what we're doing.
We are very pleased that year-to-date we had a growth in net new retail deposit accounts of 49 000 so it's working very very well.
Also pleased that in the last year we've reduced our cost of interest-bearing deposits from 0.65% to 0.42% and so that's really helping out our margins.
CD maturity is 12 months but we're not out there long.
So looking forward we do expect more modest fiber growth in the fourth quarter as we continue to focus on mix and lower deposit costs.
On a positive note I would mention in case you didn't see us that we were just indemnified in terms of market share position as a ninth largest U.S.
bank in total deposits as of June 30.
So we feel really good about that.
On Page 7 just a little bit of comment for you about revenues.
Recall that our long-term strategy is focused on diversification and so what we're trying to do what we are doing is designing the business to produce steady and growing EPS dependable and growing dividends.
So to get that we focus on diversification of markets diversification of products which will of course give us diversification of revenues.
So if you look at the pie chart there you'll see a really nice diversification between the core bank or the Community Bank and the non-core businesses.
And you can see the Community Bank is 48%.
Insurance is 14%.
I will point out that insurance has volatility and based on seasonality so that percentage will move from time to time.
But generally we're pretty pleased with these percentages of our business mix.
And frankly looking forward with challenges in the marketplace in core banking I feel really good about having our revenue divided about half between the core bank and about half in non-core businesses.
So it gives us a lot of flexibility depending on what parts of the market are moving.
Now given the fact that the economy is slowing and we do expect it to be challenging going forward we are taking action to grow in spite of that.
And so we've got a number of strategies I will just mention to you for the fourth quarter and going forward into next year.
One is that we are going to be pretty aggressively expanding our commercial branching network in new markets.
So this is a really proven way for us to expand in new markets on a very profitable basis and a relatively short-term perspective.
We can't really do that in retail but you can do it in commercial.
And Ricky has developed a really good strategy to be able to do that.
So we'll be working on that.
We're -- Chris is still leading the charge in terms of executing on our expanding corporate banking initiative in key national markets.
We'll be adding some new markets this year.
We are adding a new vertical lending team so that'll add marginally to our growth.
We'll continue to have outstanding execution in our wealth acceleration strategy.
Recall we really just kind of got that up and going in the last few years and it's really coming into its own now so we feel really good about that going forward.
We are adding more capacity in terms of producers into small business area and wealth and in our broker/dealers.
And then we have a particular opportunity in executing on the Crump acquisition.
So really there are 2 ways to really get really big lift in that.
One is on our own wealth strategy for our own clients.
So Crump has tremendous capacity in terms of helping our relationship managers to provide more insurance products to our clients.
And then on the institutional or wholesale side we are developing a really good reputation.
Crump frankly already had a governance getting in at where we provide wholesale services for large companies like them providing for BB&amp;T for example.
And then also they're developing really strong relationships with other big companies like banks and insurance companies to be able to provide wholesale services to allow them to provide insurance products to their wealth clients.
So we're really really excited about that opportunity as well.
So with that let me turn it over to Daryl and we'll give you some more color in terms of the number of areas of detail.
Daryl? Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
I'm going to take the next few minutes to discuss credit quality net interest margin securities portfolio fee income noninterest expense capital and segment reporting.
Continuing on Slide 8 we really had a great quarter with respect to credit.
You can see that total NPAs were down 9.4% on a linked-quarter basis.
NPAs have declined approximately $1.3 billion or 42.1% over the last 12 months to the lowest level in 4 years.
As a percentage of total assets NPAs declined to 0.97%.
This linked-quarter decline in NPAs was driven by lower commercial NPLs which declined 8.8% and by foreclosed real estate which declined $82 million or 37.1% the lowest level in 5 years.
We continue to focus on improving asset quality and are guiding to a modest reduction in NPAs in the fourth quarter assuming the economy does not deteriorate significantly.
This guidance also excludes the potential increase in NPAs that may result from the implementation of a regulatory guidance surrounding loans not reaffirmed by borrowers following bankruptcy.
We are working with regulators and expect to implement the guidance once all the factors regarding the behaviors of these loans are taken into account.
The goal is to get this done in the fourth quarter.
The implementation of this guidance could increase TDRs non-accruals and charge-offs.
However we believe we have fully provided for this issue in our allowance and will not have a material income statement impact.
Looking at Slide 9 we continue to make significant progress in reducing foreclosed real estate balances as you can see.
This quarter we saw a decrease of $82 million or 37.1% to $139 million.
Since the third quarter of last year foreclosed real estate is down $811 million or 85.4% with total OREO balance down to $139 million.
We should see some leveling off in OREO balances in the coming quarters.
However we forecast continued decline in related expenses but not at the same pace that we have seen in the recent past.
You will also note that our charge-off ratio excluding covered loans for the quarter was 1.08% down 1.22% from last quarter very good improvement in charge-offs.
Third quarter losses are at the lowest level in 4 years.
We expect total charge-offs excluding covered assets to be similar in the range of the fourth quarter and trend lower thereafter.
As NPAs continue to fall obviously this will exclude any impact from losses arising from the loans affected by the regulatory guidance.
Turn with me to Slide 10.
Net interest margin came in strong at 3.94% for the quarter driven by the runoff of covered assets which lowered margin 7 basis points primarily offset by an increase of 6 basis points in our core margin.
The improvement in core margin was mostly due to the full impact of the TruPS call delayed reinvestment of this quarter's investment cash flows and a more favorable funding mix change.
These were partially offset by lower yields on loans and other earning assets.
We expect GAAP margin to decline to the mid 3.70s percent next quarter.
This trend is driven by several factors: lower rates on new loan volume and investment purchases; runoff of higher-yielding covered assets; and finally higher long-term debt costs due to the TruPS benefit going away.
Partially offsetting this will be lower deposit costs.
We have broken out our core margin on Slide 10 which excludes the covered assets.
This margin has held up well over the last 2 years.
The bottom of the slide we included our current estimate of the declining benefit from the covered assets' accretable yield and its impact on our revenues.
The way to read this is the top line is the anticipated positive impact on margin through 2015.
The bottom line is the negative impact on fee income or the offset which is becoming less negative.
So as the positive impact declines over time there you will see a negative impact.
In other words the impact on net revenues will be less than the impact on net interest margin.
Remember cash flows are recalculated every quarter and may change significantly so please use this only as a guide.
While the accounting benefit for this transaction is running off this has been a tremendous acquisition for us.
We now have #5 market share position in Florida #4 in Alabama and have a strong foothold in -- for growth in Texas.
Since the acquisition we've generated billions of new loans with $1.5 billion in the last 12 months.
We continue to gain tremendous market share and we'll continue to see positive benefits in the future.
As you can see on the graph on Slide 11 we remain asset sensitive and positioned for rising rates.
BankAtlantic and deposit mix changes made us slightly more asset sensitive.
In response to the impact of the rate environment on net interest income we decided late in the quarter to purchase $2 billion in agencies with $1.5 billion settling in October.
The current portfolio is 2.1 years in duration and the net premium is 1.2% both very low risk numbers.
Our portfolio is 98% government backed.
On Slide 12 our fee income ratio in the third quarter held steady at 42.4% compared to the second quarter.
Insurance income was down from a seasonally stronger second quarter but grew 38% over the third quarter last year mostly due to acquisitions.
We also saw continued evidence of some firming in market pricing with year-to-date same-store sales up 3.9% over 2011.
We do expect a seasonally stronger fourth quarter from insurance.
Mortgage Banking income was up $29 million compared to second quarter as a result of the increased mortgage production and improved margins.
We expect Mortgage Banking income to remain at a similar strong level in the fourth quarter.
A change in the FDIC loss share income was mostly due to the offset to the provision of covered loans.
Other income increased $28 million based on $17 million in other income related to our post-employment benefits and $8 million increase in our income related to private equity and similar investments.
Looking on Slide 13 our efficiency ratio increased to 55.2% compared to 53.9% last quarter due to higher expenses.
Personnel expense increased $22 million including $10 million related to BankAtlantic and $17 million related to post-employment benefit expense.
Foreclosed property expense continues to improve.
Narrowing losses and foreclosed property write-downs drove an $18 million reduction compared to last quarter.
We expect foreclosed property expense to continue to decline next quarter.
Processing expenses increased $23 million.
This is mostly due to the impact of additional mortgage repurchase activity in related reserves with $28 million related to better identification of unrecoverable costs associated with investor-owned loans.
We expect this expense category to return to a more normalized level going forward.
Merger-related and restructuring expenses increased to $43 million as expected primarily related to the BankAtlantic acquisition.
We do not expect any more material merger charges related to BankAtlantic.
The primary driver of the increase in other expense is approximately $11 million in other operating charge-offs and similar expenses largely related to the settlement with Visa.
Without BankAtlantic and the incremental loan processing expense noninterest expense would have been up less than 1%.
FTEs increased by 110 excluding BankAtlantic due to adding insurance lines.
Finally the effective tax rate for the quarter was 26.3%.
We expect the rate to be about the same in the fourth quarter.
Moving to Slide 14 our capital ratios remained very strong and include the impact of Crump and BankAtlantic acquisitions and the redemption of our outstanding TruPS.
Tier 1 common under Basel I fell as expected to 9.5%.
We estimate our Tier 1 common under the recently issued Basel III NPR to be approximately 8% under the proposed U.S.
capital rules.
In addition Tier 1 common under the proposed Basel III international capital rules is 9.2% which is important because this measure will potentially be used for 2013 CCAR.
Neither ratio includes mitigating actions which we will take to improve our capital ratios.
We are very comfortable with our Basel III capital levels and feel we have the flexibility to take advantage of opportunities.
With that let me point out a few highlights from our segment disclosures.
Turning to Slide 15.
Community Banking net income totaled $250 million up $73 million versus linked quarter.
The main drivers include loan growth lower foreclosed property expense and lower regulatory costs.
Our Direct Retail lending continues to be strong with 3.6% linked-quarter growth and 10.2% third quarter 2011.
Turning to Slide 16.
Residential Mortgage was up $14 million on linked-quarter basis up sharply compared to the third quarter last year.
The main drivers include continued strong originations increased gains on sale and wider margins compared to last year.
The loan loss provision is lower compared to last year due to improved credit trends and updates to loss factors.
Year-over-year portfolio increased substantially with loan service for others growing 9%.
With the refi boom floating from low level rates only 59% of our production is from refinance.
Importantly our purchase mortgages are up nearly 25% compared to last year.
Turning to Slide 17 Dealer Financial Services reported net income of $53 million.
Regional acceptance continued to drive higher net interest income from the portfolio growth and improved margins.
Net charge-offs are up because of seasonality at regional acceptance.
We continue to open new offices and strong growth markets and are expanding our floor plan financing strategy.
On Slide 18 you can see Specialized Lending experienced good quarter growth.
Loans increased 16% versus third quarter last year.
High net interest income was driven by exceptional growth in small ticket consumer finance and Mortgage Warehouse Lending.
Net income for this segment was lower as a result of additional provisioning in light of the significant loan growth in this segment.
Moving on to Slide 19.
Insurance Services generated $16 million in net income.
Income was down compared to second quarter as expected because of seasonality.
And turning to Slide 20 Financial Services generated $71 million in net income primarily driven by higher corporate banking and wealth-related income.
These businesses had loan growth of 50% and 33% respectively.
With that let me turn it back to Kelly for closing remarks and Q&amp;A.
Thank you Daryl.
So in summary I would say that we had a very strong quarter.
As we've indicated we do have some concerns about where the economy is going.
I would point out in fairness though that if we get the right kind of positive leadership changes in Washington there's a real potential for a positive economic boost as we head into next year.
So I don't think we need to be overly pessimistic about where the economy is going.
Nonetheless the economies will be what economies will be.
In that context I've never felt better about our fundamental performance.
Now every part of our business is doing great.
We have the best value proposition in the marketplace based on asset evidence in terms of service delivery of quality.
We have great opportunities in that core bank great opportunities in our non-core businesses.
So the economy will be what the economy will be but BB&amp;T's going to outperform the economy.
And we feel very very confident and enthusiastic about that.
Alan let me turn it back to you.
Great.
Thank you Kelly.
In a moment we'll ask the operator to come on the line and explain how the Q&amp;A session works.
As normal -- as is our normal practice please observe the practice of asking one finite question and one follow-up so that we can maximize the number of participants.
If you have additional questions please reenter the queue.
Katie if you will come back on the line now and provide instructions for the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Jefferson Harralson KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Daryl can you talk about the sources of the margin pressure that you're seeing? Is it -- what asset yield is it mainly affecting? Is it the MBS side? Is it the mortgage side? Or can you get a little more specific about what's driving the lower guidance there? Yes sure Jefferson.
So when you look at third quarter versus fourth quarter we have margin coming down in 4 main areas.
First on the asset side loan yields are coming down.
We're seeing tighter spreads in commercial commercial real estate.
Our actual consumer loan spreads are actually holding in there well but overall we're seeing lower spreads on the commercial side.
If you look at -- the TruPS comes off so that benefit goes away so our long-term debt costs will bounce back up a little bit in the fourth quarter.
That's another thing.
Our covered assets continue to run down.
When we reran our cash flows in the third quarter we lost another $17 million for this quarter and a like amount for the fourth quarter as the cash flows continue to pay off and perform.
So those are probably the main areas of the drivers for the lower margin.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> It doesn't seem like in the -- when you look at your guidance for accretable yield that change in that does not seem to be a big driver.
Is that true? Or is it -- is there a less accretable yield coming in than you thought? So there is a little bit less accretable yield.
If you were to -- if you look at it we're going down 17 basis points.
If you go from 3.94 to let's call it 3.75 8 basis points would be on asset yields repricing down; 4 basis points on covered; 4 basis points we're going to reinvest investment securities at lower yields probably in the mid-1% range.
The TruPS runoff is worth 7 and offsetting that you have deposits that will continue to reprice down.
So that nets about 17 basis points.
Now remember Jefferson remember that like the investment securities while it is having a negative impact on margin it is having a positive impact on EPS.
We'll take our next question from Erika Penala with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just -- this is another margin question.
I apologize but I just wanted to make sure I was thinking about it the right way.
So if we assume some nominal earning asset growth next quarter and take sort of the midpoint of your guidance or just 3.75% then I get net interest income of $5.8 billion.
And if I take the 600 -- sorry if I take the $300 million that's coming off from just the accretable yield right and I assume some sort of growth in earning assets let's say 5% growth then I get to a margin that's sort of below the 3.5% that you've indicated as core I'm getting more of a 3.4% margin.
And then you just mentioned to Jefferson that on the asset yield side you're getting let's call it 8 basis points a quarter in terms of just pressure on the loan side.
I guess I'm wondering if I did that right and what's the offset.
And I apologize for the long-windedness of that question.
Yes sure Erika.
So there's a couple of things there.
So the fourth quarter impact as I was explaining was the 3.94% to 3.75%.
As we get into next year we don't expect to have as much pressure on the assets is what you're saying.
We really aren't going to give you a 2013 margin guidance yet as we don't have our operating plan completed yet and need to pull that together.
The margin will continue to probably drift down modestly but we continue to have some room to lower deposit rates.
Our investment yields are already relatively low.
So as we reinvest that benefit maybe won't be as much.
So there are some offsetting things so that the dramatic drop between third and fourth while it will trend down next year won't be as dramatic throughout that whole year.
We'll take our next question from Todd Hagerman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions just in terms of the loan growth.
C&amp;I obviously very strong but as you mentioned you're getting a little bit more pressure on spreads.
Just curious in terms of a where the growth is coming from and the decision on the mortgage side with that kind of slowing down relative to kind of what you're doing on the securities portfolio going forward.
Just kind of wondering how you're thinking about that in terms of the mix in the loan growth or in the loan category as well as the aggressiveness on the C&amp;I side and the pressure there.
So Todd what we're seeing out there is a lot of competition in general in the C&amp;I space.
Although frankly we're able to get market share movement holding our own standards in terms of quality and price.
It's just you have to work much harder than you may in some other times.
You're seeing a lot of demand out there in CRE particularly in the multifamily space.
Obviously there's a huge surge because there's people who have become less interested in primary home space to moving into rentals and so really really strong growth there and well a competitive certainly acceptable pricing.
So what we're basically doing in terms of the aggregate asset mix is just trying to look at the things that make sense for us in terms of our risk appetite in the short run and the long term.
So we'll keep growing C&amp;I kind of at a steady steady pace taking what's available to us that meets our parameters something like mortgage.
Last year and first part of this year we grew because frankly there was less overall demand in the marketplace and prices were relatively good and we had the asset sensitivity availability to handle it.
As we looked at midpart of this year we became concerned about too much risk interest rate exposure so we dialed back the mortgage not because of the quality of the mortgage but because of the interest rate exposure.
And so you'll see us dialing those categories up and down in the short run but the long-term thrust in terms of C&amp;I focusing on CRE the Direct Retail or the Specialized Lending businesses all of those will continue unabated as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just as a follow-up quickly in terms of C&amp;I specifically what -- I mean what kind of spreads are you seeing in terms of how you -- what you're putting this stuff on right now? And kind of how do you see that the next couple of quarters? Todd this is Clarke Starnes.
We see some incremental pressure.
I mean for the quarter we still had pretty healthy spreads 230 off on our C&amp;I.
And as Kelly said our CRE is 80 to 100 basis points higher and we're -- our CRE production by the way Kelly was up 12% for the quarter so that's offsetting some of that.
So again we're still well north of 200 basis points on average but there is pressure downward particularly on investment or near investment grade credit so that's why I think others are reaching on the risk curve to get yield and we're not going to do that.
So we expect some pressure but I still think we can get our share.
We'll take our next question from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So question on the NIM I just want to make sure I understand the impact that derivatives might have had on the move in the quarter.
Is -- are there any derivative positions that are coming off that are impacting the change? Not really Betsy.
Our derivative income is really not significant to our margin.
It's only a couple of basis points and that really had no impact on the quarter or on the forecast.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as we look forward I realize you're not giving guidance but given where RMBS yields are and you indicated did the forward would you be taking for serious with those forwards? Or would you just be rolling forward RMBS investments like maybe you get a little bit of a pickup on roll forward to receiving RMBS? Yes we made a decision back in June to basically stop portfolio-ing our 10- and 15-year mortgages so we're basically selling everything that we would normally sell now through -- to the GSEs.
The only mortgages that we're portfolio-ing right now are our jumbo and ARMs and some CRA type of loans.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And on the security side though...
Yes.
Securities we're basically buying all government agencies.
The yields right now in the current marketplace is in the mid-1% range.
It's probably what is a good average yield of what we're buying right now.
We'll take our next question from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a big picture question just in terms of looking ahead to the next couple of years.
We know we've got this purchase accounting headwind.
The preferred dividends got a run rate next year and then on the offsets we got a probably better provision outlook in lower foreclosed real estate costs.
But I just wanted to ask a broader question of like can we see earnings growth next year out of BB&amp;T given the points Kelly that you've been making earlier about the environment and then some of these just natural pressures? How do we think about the ability to grow earnings from where we are today? Well Ken I think obviously we had to hedge now because we just don't know where the economy's going to be.
And I think today I mean you have to be fairly pessimistic just based on talking the businesses and seeing what they're actually doing.
On the other hand I personally believe that as we think about postelection I think that there's a real opportunity for positive surge because keep in mind business people have not been investing now at that level they ought to be for a couple of years.
And so you see some real opportunity there.
But in any event it is uncertain.
But we feel positive Ken as we look forward.
Obviously we'll do better if the economy is better.
But based on our most likely scenario we feel positive about '13 versus '12 because even though we have the spread pressures et cetera on the core bank we don't get the same kind of spread pressures in terms of our mortgage businesses.
We don't get the same kind of spread pressures in terms of Specialized Lending business.
Our insurance business margins are likely heading up.
So recall from that pie chart that about half of our revenue comes in from the core bank.
The other half comes in from other sources.
And so it'll be plenty challenging but yes I would feel positive about '13 versus '12.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then my second question just relates to then.
You mentioned earlier invests in some of the commercial office footprints but I'm also just wondering how much more can you do or how much do you have to invest in terms of incremental expenses versus -- in adjusting to this potentially more challenging environment? How much can actually just work on the expense base? Like I know you guys have this program underneath the surface but how do we understand what the tangible benefits could be from you guys taking a closer tighter look at expenses underneath the surface? So the degree of expense opportunity is a direct function of what we see in terms of the economy and revenue opportunity.
So if the economy remains relatively positive and/or positive then you will see us investing in revenue producers et cetera and growing into that positive tailwind.
If on the other hand we hit a really negative environment for next year and things really really starts -- continue to slow down you will see us really really ratchet down expenses further.
We could -- we have a number of areas we can ratchet expenses that we certainly don't want to  but we certainly can.
We've not gone through this whole cycle.
We've not done a lot of draconian things in terms of our expense structure including a tougher look at some of our fringe benefits et cetera.
And so we could get really much tougher on expenses if we had to.
I don't expect that do not project that.
But it'll all be a function of where we go.
I think you'll see us continue to have a clearly a competitive advantage on our efficiency ratio.
But all of us are facing increasing from the regulatory side.
We're being killed from all the additional regulatory burdens coming out of -- mostly from Dodd-Frank and so that's the negative.
But we are becoming more productive every day.
I mean all of our strategies are being executed in an efficient manner.
We're becoming more productive.
So I'd have to cautiously say that we have expense opportunity if the revenues don't come.
But I hope what we do is get the revenues and you'll see expenses stay kind of like they've been for the last couple of years.
We'll take our next question from Nancy Bush NAB Research LLC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kelly just a question on I think probably I was not the only person who had a mini heart attack when you said that you wanted to start doing more in CRE.
Could you just clarify that and sort of tell us the areas that you're going to stay out of or put any parameters around what you want to do? So Nancy as you well described us in the past our CREF -- when I say aggressive that would be in a non-natural boring manner.
So we'll continue to be as conservative in terms of underwriting as we've always been.
So no not going out and doing the crazy stuff that got everybody in trouble big land loans and especially their projects and all of those kind of stuff not at all.
Let me emphasize:  Not at all.
But on the other hand when they are really fully cash flowing good projects with good solid cash equities in the multifamily space we'd be interested in that and in office if they come higher.
Right now there's no supply in the office area.
But if office comes back in my positives would go to hell regarding to the economy we would do some office buildings that will have good pre-leases and good coverages.
But what we're not doing Nancy is we're not reducing our coverage ratio requirements.
We're not reducing our tough standard with regard to having long-term projected real interest carry in terms of cash flows.
You know what happens -- a lot of times when interests are low people underwrite carry based on current rates.
We project long-term normalized rates.
We don't get a lot of deals because of that.
But don't have a heart attack.
You'll see us do nothing that you would feel uncomfortable with.
LLC Research Division</strong> And my follow-up question is for Daryl.
The $0.02 loan processing expense could you just clarify that and why that was regarded as "an unusual expense" for the quarter? Nancy it was an account that we had in our mortgage area where we had some aged items and we found these aged items and realized that it should have been written off in prior periods.
So that's why we are calling it a onetime item.
We'll take our next question from Matthew O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just another follow-up question on the NIM.
I think somebody had asked earlier is there any derivative drag going forward and maybe I misinterpreted the answer or the release here but there's a $26 million benefit that you pointed to as a reduction in funding costs this quarter.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> And I thought that went away next quarter which is one of the drivers of the NIM decline.
Yes that's really the 4 basis point impact on the higher long-term debt cost that we'll have next quarter.
But if you look at overall from there on out our derivative net income is just a few basis points.
It's not significant either way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So once we get past the 4Q step-down then that's relatively stable? That's correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then just separately I mean obviously as we think about the purchase accounting accretion there's a partial offset in the fee component.
And I did notice the FDIC loss share was a bigger loss which I thought it would normally go in the other direction as purchase accounting accretion came down.
So I just -- what's going on there? And then how do we think about that $90 million drag going forward? So when we closed on the Colonial acquisition in the third quarter of '09 we set up an amortization a schedule for the receivable.
And that was basically a defined time period and it basically follows the schedule.
On the other side we have the cash flows that impact the interest income.
We run those cash flows every quarter and those durations move around which causes that to move up sometimes a little faster and sometimes slower.
So that duration's moving back and forth.
But what we call the FDIC offset piece is more of a defined grade or amortized period on a defined period; it doesn't change.
Research Division</strong> Yes I guess I'm still a little confused.
I mean so the purchase accounting accretion will be coming down from this level going forward as it has been.
And then I mean -- is that $90 million?  I guess -- I know there's some puts and takes but I assume that should be coming down...
Say Matthew let me hit it because it's always been confusing to me.
But basically so think about it this way.
The revenue is coming down but the negative FDIC hit is coming down also.
So in other words you get a negative end so revenue is coming down but you got a positive and that the negative FDIC charges is reducing.
The FDIC charge is not going up it's going down that's the positive benefit.
So if you look at the benefit for '12 if you net the 2 it's $600 million in net revenue.
If you go to '13 and you net the 2 it's $400 million.
And 2014 it's $150 million.
You have to really net the blue line against the red line.
We'll take our next question from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kelly can you outline for us -- you've done a good job about telling us what some of the customers are thinking should the fiscal cliff hit and maybe higher taxes so potentially slow down the economy.
But if we put that off to the side for a moment what do you see as the biggest risk for BB&amp;T next year? Again not in the economic recession coming because of what's going on in Washington.
Besides that what are you guys worried about the most? That's a good question Gerard.
I think if you -- so that's a really big if.
But if you set aside all of that first of all as I've said in my closing comments I've never felt better about our overall fundamentals.
I mean every part of the business -- that's what's kind of frustrating today because with the overall economic picture it kind of clouds how strong the underlying performance of the business is.
Which is by the way you guys when you're looking at -- you really ought to look at free cash pre-provision you ought to look at the underlying strength of the core business at BB&amp;T which is still very very strong.
There's only been one thing I've ever really worried about about our business is because we are a service business and because our strategy is by itself having the best value proposition which is a function of having the best quality it really comes down to people.
And so while it's not a problem for us that's what I worried about at night is because the entire strategy is based on having better people better trained better motivated better executing than our competitors that's the only thing that I wake up at night worrying about.
Now having said that because it is intense focus replace in terms of recruiting in terms of our university training and sort of patient efforts in terms of feedback we get from our clients who are engaged -- among our associates based on engagement surveys I've never felt better about where we are with regard to our phases [ph].
But that's just what I was worried about because that's the only thing that can trip us up.
LLC Research Division</strong> And as a follow-up if we're talking here a year from now as we're heading into 2014 and if we assume now fiscal cliff does not hit Washington's turn for the better and this housing market continues to grow better than -- like we saw yesterday and there's now talk in October of '13 of the fed raising short-term interest rates much sooner than they currently are expected to do which is the middle of 2015.
If that proves to be true how does that affect you guys a year from now in terms of the portfolio of durations margins and things like that? So that's the opposite side of my middle of my nights Gerard.
So in the middle of the night sometimes I worry about if we don't have the right people.
So all the time I wake up just laughing and clapping my hands because of that environment.
That would be a huge win for us.
We're positively gapped.
We've strengthened our position in the marketplace in general.
We've got really really high deposit market shares -- the shares of loans in these new markets like Florida and Alabama and Texas.
That's a boom for us.
I mean it would be a really really fun time.
We'll take our next question from Greg Ketron with UBS.
Research Division</strong> It's going to be a short-term question and a long-term question.
Daryl on the margin I'm sorry to go back to it but if you look at the I guess potential revenue or earnings pressure that the drop to the mid-70s could create it looks like if you'd maybe just take the drop that could be $0.07 per share.
And then if you factor in the earning asset growth for the quarter which actually ended the quarter on a strong note so earning asset looks like it should be pretty that in the fourth quarter.
That's kind of like a $0.02 or $0.03 offset.
So it looks like about $0.04 to $0.05 in EPS pressure on a revenue or a pretax basis kind of a $50 million.
As we kind of walk through and look at the fourth quarter earnings and into 2013 are there offsets to that such as maybe a rebound in insurance the lower FDI expense that you're looking at that you think could offset the impact from the lower margin from a revenue and earnings standpoint? Yes Greg I'll touch on it but I think my peers here will probably chip in a little bit.
Yes as you look out into '13 and I did follow your logic on the fourth quarter but as you follow -- look into '13 definitely credit costs will continue to come down.
We tried to give some guidance but we'll have more guidance in January regarding that but we feel very good that credit quality is coming down and maybe some others want to touch on some of their businesses? Yes Greg this is Chris.
Insurance I think you've touched on is pretty clearly firming in from a price perspective.
Year-to-date we're up 4%.
If you just look at the core brokerage business pulling out a little underwriting it's actually like 4.6%.
And we're just -- what you typically see is an abrupt change when you go from soft to hard market up 15% to 20% or so.
We're only up 4% so we're probably -- we've got another 2 1 year 2 years of this I think left.
And there are kind of 3 legs to it.
One is you get the pricing improvement then as the economy improves you get a volume improvement and exposures.
And then thirdly sort of on out years in the second and third year you get a pick-up in profit-sharing commissions that are based on performance with your underwriters.
So I think we're just really well positioned to take advantage of that as we kind of move forward.
Greg this is Ricky.
Just a little comment about -- around our commercial strategy that Kelly mentioned earlier.
We think there's some real opportunity in some of these new markets for us and maybe even some contiguous markets that we're beginning to reach into that we can do some commercially oriented branch growth that can get us some loan growth can establish some presence in concert with Chris' efforts in capital markets and some of these really work well together.
Though we think that's a nice offset in terms of additional loan growth that we can have against this margin pressure so some kind of volume growth and we feel very good about.
We've had a few practice runs in Texas already and we've seen that work very very nicely.
So we're very encouraged by that strategy.
We're finalizing it.
Hopefully you'll see some more information about that soon.
And lastly Greg what I would add is our deposit costs will continue to come down last quarter.
Last quarter we said they were going to go down from 42 basis points down to 30.
That was pre-QE3 so we'll probably do better than that next year.
So I think you'll have that to help offset some of these asset side pressures.
Research Division</strong> Okay great color.
I appreciate that.
And Kelly as we get closer to the election seeing the housing data particularly the Southeast improvement prices improved you noted that people are taking a pretty cautious view.
The sense that there is a lot of pent-up demand kind of pending the election in November and as we get the results that are more favorable to a business climate that you could see a pretty quick recovery in investment of the excess liquidity that's on the sidelines right now? Greg I really do.
To give you just a couple of little anecdotes.
I mean I talked not too long ago with an owner of retail furniture store.
He had like 50 stores so he does have his own trucks to deliver all of his furniture.
And he said "I have not replaced a truck in over 8 years." He said "I need to replace my entire fleet but I'm not going to do a thing until after this." So I believe the day after you get a change he'll go out and replace his entire fleet.
We've seen people holding back in terms of technological investments.
Do I need to update all of my software and all of my hardware? I've been holding back.
You could work to those.
So there's just a lot of that out that's holding back.
And I may be wrong but I personally feel pretty strongly.
This is based on talking to 400 500 businesspeople in the last year.
I think it's a pretty good economic sample.
I think under the scenario you described we would definitely get a positive hit.
And by the way I know everybody's concerned about rates.
My own scenario and I mentioned this over the Barclays conference my own scenario is that next year we're going to see higher rates.
Either 1 or 2 reasons.
Either the accrued stays in; that's not as favorable to the business and we have relatively low growth.
I think we should be spending like crazy which is to drive up inflation fields which is what drive up rates or we get a more positive business climate which takes business investment surges loan demand grows that drives up rates.
Now I know Bernanke can hold down to short term and he can hold down to 10-year but he can't hold down all rates.
So I think any way you turn as we get towards next year you're going to be seeing upward pressure on rates.
We'll take our next call from Kevin Fitzsimmons with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just real quickly most of the questions have been dealt with but the initiative you talked about in terms of expanding the commercial branches just wanted to get a feel.
I think Ricky you had mentioned before new markets so is that really Texas we're talking about? Are you talking about actual states that you're not in at this time? And what would some of those be if that is the case? And then secondly can you just give us a sense on that seasonality of insurance? I would assume it's going up but not up to the pace of last quarter maybe something in between if you could give us a sense if that's a good assumption? Yes thank you very much Kevin for that.
But our focus is going to be in the 3 opportunity markets that we have in front of us:  Texas Alabama Florida some places that we have opportunity.
So that's where we're looking and that's where we'll make the final assessment about what we do.
Longer term we'll see how that plays out.
If we're successful it would have some applicability in other places.
We'll ask Chris to give his comment on the insurance question.
Yes Kevin the insurance.
You've got several other things that's kind of underlying the business.
You've got the pricing pressure we talked about or the pricing improvement.
Then you've got current kind of coming online which is kind of a nice pickup as well.
So I think the fourth quarter is going to look at little bit better than what you're seeing currently.
Probably in the kind of the up could be 5% 5% or so 5% to 10% sort of where we are at the moment.
We'll take our next question from Michael Rose with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one more question on the margin.
Does the implied drop this quarter change your kind of longer-term outlook of 3.6% to 3.7%? It does not Michael.
I think in January we'll give you a clear guidance for 2013 after we get our operating plan pulled together.
I will just say from where we are in the fourth quarter we had modest pressures next year and I think we'll give you more color next quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then back on the expenses with some of these new initiatives your commercial branches and some of the other things you mentioned how does that -- what's kind of the expense associated with some of those efforts? Michael in general on the expenses as I indicated earlier if things don't go well in terms of revenues -- and we'll be really really tough on expenses.
Every expense will be put under intense scrutiny.
And frankly in that environment we will not make investments and expense initiatives that do not generate positive revenue -- positive income for the year we would hold back.
On the other hand if we stay more positive then we'll be investing more in revenue opportunities.
In some cases they're a little  short-term dilutive and maybe positives early next year but you're always having to make investments looking forward to grow the business.
So we'll just have to measure those as we go along and truth is right now I can't tell you how that'll go.
I can tell you the end of the day our profit will be the focus.
And so if the economy is tough we'll be focusing tough on expenses to get to profit.
If the economy is better we'll get more revenue because of some expense-side investments that create more revenue and we'll just have to play it by the ear as we go along.
We'll take our next question from Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> So Daryl let me apologize up front for the 10th net interest margin question here but I just thought I'd ask in a way that might clarify things a little bit for sort of the outlook for next year.
So if we assume we're around $375 million for the fourth quarter and then we look at that sort of blue line versus red line chart on Page 10 of the slide deck where you talk about the net revenue from covered loans next year at about $400 million what would you say would be the net revenue from covered loans in the fourth quarter of this year? Let me see.
I would probably say in the third quarter you can see in our press release we're about $130 million in net revenue if you look on Page 6 there.
So it would probably come down in the neighborhood of around $20 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So something in the neighborhood of $110 million? $100 million to $110 million in that neighborhood.
Research Division</strong> Okay so you're annualizing in the fourth quarter to about $440 million.
So what you're telling us is the drop-off in revenue in 2013 from where you think you'll be in the fourth quarter in that mid-370s NIM level is not very much in terms of drop-off in covered loan accretion? Yes this is a caveat.
I mean we run cash flows every quarter and it's been volatile so -- but if you look at it over a longer time period it's a modest gradual decline over the next couple of years.
But every time we rerun cash flows it gets a little lumpy but you got the trajectory right.
Ed I'm going to make this comment for you and others.
And I'm sure you all understand this but I just -- to emphasize the point.
I don't want anybody to get -- take out of context that graph on Page 10 as it shows a projected decline in net revenues from Colonial because that is a very incomplete picture.
We're just trying to show you the impact on margin.
But even that's incomplete because remember this is basically a declining portfolio that we've got 3 years ago.
At the same time we are growing the -- if you will the new Colonial and this is growing by the day.
We've had huge billions of dollars increases in loans and deposits and other fee income.
And so if you looked at that you could draw the conclusion that aggregate BB&amp;T profitability is down by that much.
That would be very inaccurate because the whole Colonial business is just really wrapping up really rapidly.
And so we thought about could you do some kind of a comprehensive graph that looked at all of those aspects because as you can imagine it would be too convoluted.
But it would be very inappropriate to look at that and draw some whopping conclusion about negative impact on BB&amp;T for next year.
It would be totally to not to focus on the rest of the positive benefits from the merger.
We'll take our next question from Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I'm sorry to beat what is pretty clearly nearly a dead horse at this point.
But Kelly I wanted to follow up on your comment in terms of the -- on Slide 10 in terms of the reduced accretable yield.
And I appreciate that there's far more benefits than the NIM impact from the decline in the accretable yield.
But if I take the current net interest income from the third quarter annualize that and then reduce it by the $600 million of accretable yield that you're estimating at this point for 2013 I estimate a net interest margin in the 3.5% range versus what you're reporting now.
So I guess I'm just curious as you see that $300 million decline year-over-year in the reported net interest income is there any offset that you might be able to generate in the spread revenue specifically to help us get a better [indiscernible] what the direction for net interest income is? Let me make one general comment.
Daryl will give you the details.
But keep in mind when you look at that reduction from $900 million to $600 million that's $300 million.
If you look at the bottom line you get $300 million -- it's only $200 million.
So you got -- it's only $200 million first of all.
And then you have the positives that I alluded to earlier with regard to more loan volume which improves revenue not necessarily the margin but revenue.
And then we do have to your point fee opportunities insurance opportunities wealth management opportunities all of which won't be a NIM; that would be noninterest income that will be very positive as well.
But let me ask Daryl to pick up any additional detail.
Hey Matt if you look on Slide 10 and you look at the top part under that first bullet point we list 3 offsets there.
You have 1 000 specialty businesses.
Those basically yield around 10% and they're going to grow faster than the loan yields so that will be an offset.
We don't see that offset in the fourth quarter because of seasonal decline there but it's still growing faster year-over-year versus total loans.
You have CRE which is not running off anymore and will start to grow.
That yield is higher than the C&amp;I and other portfolios and we talked about deposit costs.
So those are your offsets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
Let me switch to my second question.
I guess I was curious as to the relatively low percentage of refi mortgages that you had in the quarter versus purchase mortgages.
And I guess I'm curious if that's something that BB&amp;T is specifically targeting or is that something that your customers are coming to you and requesting higher -- more purchase mortgages rather than refis? Yes Matt this is Clark.
Number one we are very targeted consciously in our origination strategy on more purchase because we know at some point refis wane so we feel very good about our sales efforts there with the building community and with clients to earn more purchase.
And then frankly we do have very good brand around our mortgage business and our markets so clients that are purchasing homes are coming to us.
And to a final point we are seeing more housing activity in many of our markets.
So that we are seeing improvement in housing and so we're seeing more buys in a lot of our markets.
And we're getting I believe our fair share of that.
We'll take our next question from Christopher Marinac with FIG Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to go back to the branch initiatives that you mentioned earlier.
Is there any comparison that's different today between buying versus building on branches? Are there acquisitions that may make more sense and easier or is it just simpler to go on your own? Chris what we try to do is look at -- we try to look at -- we do look at the internal rate of return analysis on build versus acquisition.
And obviously as you would know it depends on more on deposit acquisition as it does on cost to build because the cost to build is not that variable.
In this case the cost to build a house is going to be lower because we're going to be looking at acquiring vacant primarily vacant existing or previously bank buildings where we get them at a real deep discount based on current market values and we don't spend that much money on them because it will be a commercial strategy and the exact nature of the branch does not vary.
It's not as important as it is in retail.
So number one the cost of these will be lower.
But on the acquisition side it's just a function of 2 things.
One is what is the acquisition price? And the other is what is the availability? We obviously as you know we look at deals all the time but I would say in general the sellers' desire to returns today are generally higher than we're willing to invest in.
And so that's why we are looking to some degree why we are looking at this de novo strategy because we're not going to go out into acquisitions that violate the fundamental principles that we've laid forth.
We'd be glad to do them but we look at the organic growth and merger growth as interchangeable and we like to have a nice healthy combination but if acquisitions are too expensive we've got plenty of capacity from an organic point of view.
And so this time you can surmise that we are not expecting much acquisition activity and so therefore we're focusing more on the organic growth.
At this time Katie if I could just say that we've given as much time as we can.
And we do have a few more names in the queue but we due to the time we need to go ahead and end the call.
Kelly do you have any closing remarks? No just as I said to everybody thanks for joining us.
We appreciate your ongoing support of our company a lot of good questions a lot of challenging issues out there but I'll restate again I've never felt better about the fundamental performance of our company and the fundamental opportunities that we have going forward.
Everybody have a great day.
Thank you.
This concludes our call.
Have a good day.
That concludes today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Greetings ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the BB&amp;T Corporation Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call today on January 17 2013.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Alan Greer Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Cassie and good morning everyone and thanks to all of our listeners for joining us today.
We have with us today Kelly King our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Daryl Bible our Chief Financial Officer who will review the results for the fourth quarter as well as provide a look-ahead.
We also have other members of our executive management team Chris Henson our Chief Operating Officer; Ricky Brown the President of Community Banking; and Clarke Starnes our Chief Risk Officer who are with us to participate in the Q&amp;A session.
We will be referencing a slide presentation during our remarks today.
A copy of the presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental financial information are available on our website.
After Kelly and Daryl have made their remarks we will pause to have Cassie come back on the line and explain how you may participate in the Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin let me remind you that BB&amp;T does not provide public earnings predictions or forecasts.
However there may be statements made during the course of this call that express management's intentions beliefs or expectations.
BB&amp;T's actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to be materially different is contained on Slide 2 of our presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
Our presentation includes certain non-GAAP disclosures.
Please refer to Page 2 and the Appendix of our presentation for the appropriate reconciliations to GAAP.
And now I'll turn it over to Kelly.
Thank you Alan.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining our call.
So I'm going to start with some overall performance highlights.
And I would say in general that relative to the environment excuse me 2012 was an outstanding year and our fourth quarter was a very solid quarter financially.
And in addition to the financial performance I would just point out to you that we did acquire and convert BankAtlantic and Crump.
I'm very proud of the fact we did over 1 100 community projects which we call our Lighthouse Projects and we continue to get outstanding feedback in terms of our service quality which is ultimately the most important in terms of our value proposition.
In terms of some of the numbers we did have record annual net income of $1.9 billion up 49% from the prior year.
Net income for the quarter was $506 million up 29.4% versus last year's fourth.
Diluted EPS totaled $0.71 which was up 29%.
I would point out that we did have a $0.01 of EPS reduction because of merger-related charges.
Total revenues very strong $2.5 billion up 8% versus our third quarter.
Record 2012 revenues were really from Mortgage Banking Insurance Investment Banking and Brokerage.
We had a very strong fee income ratio of 44% which we feel very good about.
Solid overall loan growth.
It was 3% versus third quarter annualized.
That growth was led by C&amp;I Direct Retail Lending and Residential Mortgage.
It follows linked quarter C&amp;I and CRE loan production.
I'll give you a little more color on that in a minute.
In terms of deposits another great quarter.
And total deposits increased $3.1 billion or 9.5% versus the third annualized but more importantly noninterest-bearing deposits increased 24.7% versus third quarter annualized.
And we continue to improve our mix and decrease our interest-bearing costs.
Overall a really good performance in credit quality.
So NPAs and NPLs are both decreased over 10% on an annualized basis.
Our allowance coverage ratio improved to 1.37 up from 1.24 so really strong consistent performance there.
Expenses were well controlled.
Our noninterest expenses decreased 10.7% versus the third quarter annualized and very pleased that we had positive operating leverage.
If you're following along let's go to Page 4 in the deck.
So I'm very pleased about overall loan growth particularly given a tough economic set of conditions.
And I would point out and emphasize that we are continuing to stick to our credit quality discipline.
And unfortunately we do see some slippage in the marketplace but we're being very firm about that.
So you can see that our x covered growth was 4.4%.
Of course we continue to have mix change.
Our C&amp;I was 5.4% fourth to third annualized.
CRE was 7.7%.
I would point out that we did have a reclass from C&amp;I -- I mean from CRE to C&amp;I so if you adjust for that our C&amp;I would have been 6.7%.
Of course CRE would have been slightly less as well but that's what we're really trying to focus on.
I would remind you that our CRE had another continued substantial runoff but we think we are kind of at the trough kind of at the bottom on that.
We really see that as an opportunity going forward.
I'll talk about some of the categories in just a moment but that's a real opportunity for us.
Direct Retail had a strong quarter 6.3%; Revolving Credit 8.2%; Residential Mortgage was 5.7%.
Now keep in mind we told you last quarter that with regard to Residential Mortgage those rates are not as high as they were in previous periods because they're not holding our fixed rate conforming.
And our other lending subsidiaries was 2.1% and again that's seasonal so those are very much in line with what we would have expected.
So if you look at the -- again in the context of a relatively slow market out there we feel good about those growth rates.
Also feel encouraged in terms of momentum because the end of period loans were $1 billion higher than the fourth quarter average so that's encouraging.
And in terms of a little guidance on the first quarter we expect to see solid C&amp;I CRE and Sales Finance growth.
Our Corporate Banking investments continue to expand our loan opportunities there.
Now on this CRE I don't want Nancy to have another heart attack here so we're focusing on retail warehouse office multi-families small steps like we always do.
We're not doing 50- or 100-story office buildings that kind of thing.
So just what BB&amp;T always kind of does but we're just going to do more of it relative to the last 2 or 3 years.
And we're going to be focusing on wholesale lending and sales finance.
That's a really really big opportunity for us as we go forward.
Also point out that we've got some really encouraging momentum developing out of the Community Bank especially in our newer markets around Colonial impact.
So just to give you a perspective if you look at loan production for the Community Bank it was up 26% over last year.
Our fourth to third annualized was 32%.
Now all that's not funded today but we believe as we head into the spring people will start fund -- pulling down those lines and so that production number is something that's a pretty good indicator of future growth.
So we feel good about that.
And taken all that into account we would guide you to a loan growth for the first quarter in the 2% to 4% range contingent on the economy.
The economy is soft today and businesses have still not started really ramping up their investments.
There's still a lot of uncertainty out there.
Who knows what's going to happen with regard to the debt ceiling discussion and expense reductions at the federal level.
But if we get any kind of modest or reasonably positive leadership out of Washington and we reach some kind of reasonable accord around that I think you may see a positive kick on this.
I'd just point out that people have been holding back for 4 years in particular the last 2 years in terms of making any investments and so if we can get some kind of reasonable leadership out of Washington you might see more of a positive kick in loan growth than you might have expected.
I just want to emphasize also again that we are sticking to our disciplined strategy in terms of lending.
We're not doing leverage leading which a lot of companies are doing.
We are keeping relatively small hold positions.
A lot of our competitors take a much bigger hold positions.
We could double our loan growth in short order if we chose to but we're much more focused on long-term earnings and we're simply not going to go back out of the frying pan into the fire in terms of taking on a bunch of higher-risk profile types of credits.
So I just think in terms of our loan growth on a risk-adjusted basis as being very very strong.
If you look at Slide 5 in terms of deposits it's overall a great quarter particularly given the significantly lower costs.
Our total deposits were up 9.5% quarter-to-quarter annualized.
More importantly DDA noninterest-bearing deposits was up 24.7% which was really really strong.
We effectively reduced our borrowing cost on interest-bearing deposits by 18 basis points during 2012.
Our CD maturity is still reasonable at 12 months.
We opened about 34 000 net new retail deposit accounts so we're going through the transition of getting through free checking and move to positive growth again there on a solid basis.
So if we think about first quarter we would guide you to more modest deposit growth.
Frankly we're not trying to push it too fast.
We don't have the loan growth to support it.
So we're trying to keep the costs down and let the growth be kind of what it is.
And so you expect to see some contingent improvement in deposit cost.
I would just make an editorial comment that the TAG program ended was basically not a big deal.
It was probably slightly positive to us probably to our credit rating.
But more important I think this is a really important step in getting our industry disengaged from government support and government control and we pushed for the termination of that program and we're glad that it did in fact terminate.
If you look at page or Slide 6 I'll just say to you overall with regard to revenue in this dynamic global marketplace we believe diversification in assets markets and the resulting revenue is very very critical.
We've invested for many years in diverse businesses and we're really beginning to see the benefit in more stable revenue and earnings which is what we've always told you folks that we're trying to do on behalf of our shareholders produce long-term stable revenue and stable earnings so we can have stable dividends and share price increase.
If you look at that pie chart there I would just point out to you that it's a pretty good balance: 47% from the Community Bank; 14% Insurance Services; 13% Financial Services; 12% Mortgage; and 8% in Specialized Lending; and 6% in Dealer Financial Services.
So I'd just point out that we're not as spread-dependent as a lot of companies are.
And so even if we stay in a low interest rate environment for a long time we won't be relatively as hit as some others.
I will say with regard to interest rate environment and Daryl can give his comment on this but I personally think notwithstanding what others are saying about end of this year we're going to see interest rates rising.
I just think there's so much monetary stimulus into this economy and we're going to see the impact of that in terms of rates notwithstanding what the Chairman is trying to do.
So I'm a little bit more bullish on the yield curve than some people are.
In terms of some key initiatives for '13 I just want you to know that even though it's a relatively slow environment our attitude at BB&amp;T is bullish.
We're not sitting back crying over spilt milk about how bad the economy is.
We're moving forward.
We've got a number of initiatives.
Just a few of them are these: So we're expanding our corporate banking initiative in key national markets continuing to expand our vertical lending teams; that's paying really really big benefits for us.
We're expanding our adviser capacity in wealth management and brokerage-dealers.
We're adding substantial number of brokers there.
We have a huge opportunity with this Crump acquisition in a number of areas but I just want to highlight one to give you a perspective of how important that opportunity is for us.
So if you think about what a wholesale company does is this classical wholesale in terms of supporting the needs of the retailers.
But what's really happened in the life insurance business over the last really couple of decades is the traditional model has changed dramatically.
If you go back 20-plus years ago 2/3 of life insurance product was sold by the dedicated insurance salesmen of the underwriters.
That's changed to where that's only about 1/3 today.
So 2/3 of the premiums are being written by people that sell multiple multiple products.
And at the same time virtually all financial service providers banks brokers insurance carriers they're all trying to sell life insurance to their clients and so they're having to adjust their models.
And so what we see is that many companies are looking to this and saying having the capacity inside their shop is too complex too expensive.
They simply don't have the expertise.
And so Crump is being sought out by large banks other large insurance companies to provide a turnkey process for them in terms of meeting the needs of their clients.
And frankly it's going extraordinary well and it has huge opportunity for us.
So that's just one part of what Crump brings to us but it's a huge opportunity.
We're very excited about it.
We continue to expand our already very very successful mortgage operation in terms of our correspondent lending network.
We're expanding our retail mortgage lending in targeted geographies that we've not otherwise been located in.
You saw recently Ricky announced that we're going to be opening 30 commercial branches in Texas.
That's already well under way.
Most of them will be opened by June.
We are extremely encouraged by the initial results of that.
We think that's going to be a big big payback for us in Texas in relatively short order.
And then I would just point out that we continue to have tremendous opportunities in the -- revenue opportunities in the legacy Colonial markets.
We always go through this process: When you bring in a new company it takes a good while to ramp-up those revenue production capabilities of those markets and that's happening but I just want to show you what the opportunity is.
So for example we produce something called a revenue multiplier which is revenue relative to compensation expenses.
And so for our core markets today that is 8.28 multiple; and in the Colonial markets it's 4.53.
So you can see those as massive opportunity to ramp up the performance in the Colonial markets which is happening but it'll happen much more over the next 2 3 years as they move closer to the core markets.
So huge opportunity for BB&amp;T to grow our revenue and profits independent of what happens to the market.
Obviously if the market is better we'll do better.
But we're going to do well relatively in any event.
So we're very excited about mortgage and overall revenue and look forward to reporting it to you later.
Let me turn now to Daryl to give you some additional information about our performance.
Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
I'm going to take -- talk to you and talk about credit quality net interest margin fee income noninterest expense capital and our segment reporting.
On Slide 7 our credit metrics showed continued improvement in NPAs and charge-offs.
NPAs declined 10.6% during the fourth quarter and are down 37% since last year.
Charge-offs declined at a modest pace during the quarter and are now at the lowest level in 4 years.
We expect modest improvement in NPAs during the first quarter and anticipate net charge-offs will be around 1% of average loans and should trend lower thereafter.
Our allowance coverage ratio has consistently improved during the year.
During the fourth quarter our allowance to nonperforming loans increased to 1.24x from 1.37x reflecting continued improvement in underlying credit trends.
Turning to Slide 8 let me provide some color around the 21% increase in performing TDRs.
As you know the OCC which is not our regulator issued third quarter guidance on loans discharges and bankruptcy that were not reaffirmed by the borrower.
This guidance requires these loans to be classified as TDRs and possibly as nonperforming assets regardless of payment history or expected performance.
During the fourth quarter we applied the TDR guidance to all of our portfolios resulting in a $226 million increase in performing TDRs.
Based on experience we believe it is appropriate to classify these loans as performing.
About 77% of the loans have been current for 2 years and over 90% are current now.
Also in our experience FICO scores for these borrowers increased about 50 basis -- 50 points after the debt discharge.
Neither our primary regulator nor the SEC have formalized their thoughts on this issue.
But as we said last quarter we provided for these loans in our allowance and this change in classification will not have a material adverse impact on earnings.
Continuing on Slide 9.
Net interest margin came in strong at 3.84% down 10 basis points from last quarter and above our guidance.
The decrease was a result of several factors: a $26 million benefit in hedge amortization related to our TruPs redemption in the third quarter; runoff of covered assets and lower yields on new earning assets.
These were partially offset by the decrease in interest-bearing deposit costs.
Looking to the first quarter we expect margin to be in the mid-370s.
There are 2 primary drivers: first continued pressure on asset yields from the continued low rate environment; and second continued runoff of covered assets.
Offsetting these drivers are benefits will continue to decline in funding costs and a favorable funding mix.
Looking out into this year we expect a modest decline in margin after the first quarter.
As you can see in the bottom graph we remain slightly asset-sensitive at our position for rising rates.
Turning to Slide 10.
Our fee income ratio for the fourth quarter increased to 44.1% compared to 42.4% in the third quarter.
Insurance income was up $29 million mostly due to seasonally stronger fourth quarter.
In the first quarter we will see the opposite seasonal impact.
However firming market conditions will lead to an increase over last year's first quarter excluding Crump.
Mortgage Banking income was up $20 million compared to a very strong third quarter due to increased production volume.
We expect Mortgage Banking income to be modestly down in the first quarter due to tighter margins and similar volume levels investment banking and brokerage-generated healthy growth in the fourth quarter mostly in fixed income markets.
Looking on Slide 11.
You will see the efficiency ratio remained flat with the fourth quarter coming in at 55.3%.
Total noninterest expense was down $41 million linked quarter or 10.7% annualized.
Personnel expense increased $26 million mostly due to production-based incentives offset by slight decrease in FTEs.
Foreclosed property expense was down $6 million and is at its lowest level since third quarter 2007.
We also saw a decline in loan-related expenses from lower mortgage repurchase expenses.
If you recall last quarter we had higher expenses related to unrecoverable costs associated with investor-owned loans.
Merger-related and restructuring expenses were down considerably due to the completion of BankAtlantic acquisition in the third quarter.
Other expenses showed strong improvement with the Visa settlement in the third quarter and lower insurance-related costs this quarter.
For the first quarter we expect lower noninterest expense to be driven by decreases in both production-based incentives and professional services.
Looking into 2013 we believe our discretionary expenses will be flat FTEs will be flat excluding revenue initiatives and credit costs will trend lower.
We expect positive operating leverage in 2013 compared to last year.
Finally the effective tax rate for the quarter was 27.4% and we expect a similar amount in the first quarter.
Turning to Slide 12.
Capital levels were up from the 13th.
Basel III Tier 1 common under proposed U.S.
rules is 8% and 9.3% under international rules.
These estimates do not include mitigating actions we would take to lower our risk-weighted assets and improve our capital ratios.
Our recently submitted CCAR plan and capital deployment priorities are first to support organic growth; second to increase dividends; and finally to pursue strategic opportunities and consider share buybacks.
Now here are a few highlights from our segment disclosures.
Starting on Slide 13.
Community Bank net income totaled $220 million showing very strong growth versus common quarter and modestly down linked quarter.
Common quarter increase was due to the higher foreclosure property costs in the earlier quarter as we ramped up efforts to reduce OREO and took some significant write-downs.
Linked quarter growth decline was due to higher provisions mostly the result of loan growth and reserve rate adjustments and elevated noninterest expenses related to the BankAtlantic system conversion.
Kelly mentioned we are pleased with the commercial loan pipeline remained strong.
Turning to Slide 14.
Residential Mortgage was up $3 million on a linked quarter basis from a very strong third quarter and up sharply compared to fourth quarter last year.
This is a record quarter in originations and our servicing portfolio now exceeds $1 billion.
Looking at Dealer Financial Services on Slide 15 you will see net income totaled $38 million down compared to both linked and common quarters.
The decrease in segment net income is mostly due to higher loan loss provisions coupled with strong annual loan growth and fourth quarter reserve rate adjustments at Regional Acceptance.
We continue to open new offices in strong growth markets and are expanding our wholesale financing.
On Slide 16 you will see Specialized Lending experienced a strong quarter with net income of $72 million.
Common quarter net income was up $8 million mostly the result of net interest income growth related to Sheffield Financial Mortgage Warehouse Lending and premium finance.
This was offset by higher noninterest expense due to higher personnel costs depreciation on operating leased equipment and higher servicing cost from the portfolio at Grandbridge.
Specialized Lending continues to show strong loan production compared to both linked and common quarters.
We also added $4 billion in servicing with the acquisition of Dwyer-Curlett.
Moving on to Slide 17.
Insurance Services generated $39 million in net income up significantly compared to both common and linked quarters.
Increased revenue was broad based across most insurance businesses while maintaining excellent expense control.
Insurance benefited from both acquisitions' organic growth.
Crump Insurance added $83 million in insurance noninterest income.
And growth in same-store sales suggests firming in pricing.
As we integrate Crump Insurance into our processes we see outstanding potential to leverage its product offerings and cross-sell opportunities.
As noted earlier we expect future organic revenue growth and we'll have a seasonally lower revenue in the first quarter.
Turning to Slide 18.
Financial Services generated $90 million in net income mostly driven by Corporate Banking and wealth management.
These businesses had loan growth of 39.9% and 26.5% respectively.
Investment banking and brokerage had a strong quarter led by capital markets and service income transactions as we continue to see opportunities in middle market and corporate lending.
And with that let me turn it back to Kelly for closing remarks and Q&amp;A.
Thank you Daryl.
So overall as you can see it was a great year a really solid quarter.
We really made excellent progress in our several unit diversification strategy plan nice progress in moving back to normalized profitability.
But we think '13 will be challenging but our businesses are really performing well.
And so given the economy we believe we'll have another high-performance year in 2013 and looking forward to sharing that with you.
So now I'll turn it back to Alan for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Kelly.
In a moment I'll ask the operator to come on the line and explain how you may participate in the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] With that I'll ask Cassie to come on and explain the instructions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to Jefferson Harralson with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> For my first question I wanted to ask about the 2% to 4% loan growth expectation for 2013.
Can you talk about the mix of that a little bit? And how does mortgage portfolio -- I know this year you were maybe substituting in some mortgages and replacing securities portfolio this year.
Is the -- some of the reverse going to happen next year? And within that 2% to 4% where do you think C&amp;I comes out? Well so -- yes last year for much of the year a meaningful part of our growth was in holding mortgages because frankly early part of the year it makes sense because of rates.
As rates declined later in the year it didn't make sense so we stopped doing that.
And so that -- you're seeing a little bit of downward pressure on total loan growth because of that.
You'll see positive growth as -- in this year in terms of C&amp;I in terms of Sales Finance.
Specialized Lendings will be strong.
CRE is going to be a comer in terms of this year.
So it's going to be a pretty broad based and diversified.
And I think it'll overall be very positive in terms of profitability because that kind of growth in this kind of market given our discipline in terms of structure and products is really good growth.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And for my follow-up I just want to ask a mortgage question.
How should I think about the huge mortgage origination volumes and how much extra profitability that's given you now that's at risk to come out later in the year? I see the mortgage segment profitability sitting there.
That seems to also to include the loans on the balance sheet.
But with kind of record gain on sales and record originations how should we think about how that plays out and the potential impact for you guys as the kind of mortgage plays out next year? I'll give you part of this and then Daryl will give you some color in terms of the spread.
So basically our overall production is really strong.
I mean we had $8.5 billion in the fourth quarter up from a very strong third quarter best ever.
We think the -- based on our pipeline and our marketing efforts that kind of continues at least in the first part of the year.
You might see a little pressure on margins so let me let Daryl explain it to you.
Yes Jefferson if you look at our overall margin or spreads in the fourth quarter they were 229.
That's actually down from 240 in the third quarter.
Our mix of business was 35% retail 65% correspondent in the fourth quarter.
I think as you look out into next year if you assume a similar mix we expect volumes to be relatively strong compared to this past year but probably a little bit tighter margins on retail.
I mean our margins at retail now were over 400 points.
Probably that gets in the 300-point range and correspondents were in the low 100s and that probably goes under 100.
We'll take our next question from Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First question just on the branch openings in Texas.
I'm wondering how has your overall kind of view of M&amp;A changed maybe over the last 6 months? And also are there other states maybe like Tennessee where you'd consider doing organic expansion opportunities? So our strategy with regard to M&amp;A has not changed in terms of what we would like to do.
It's just that there are not really willing sellers out there at a price that we're willing to pay.
And so our strategy in Texas was simply to say that we believe we can build out our Texas operation on a commercial basis de novo.
Now you really cannot do that practically on retail.
It'll take 100 years.
And so we would still very much be interested in acquisitions that particularly cover retail space in Texas.
So our Texas 30-branch strategy does not say we're not interested in acquisitions in Texas it simply says we're not going to sit back and run our business waiting for what other people do.
I mean we can't control what other people do to have their own strategies and we respect that.
We're going to run our business.
So we know we can build out Texas on a commercial basis very very effectively.
And we believe that we can do that in other markets as well.
Ricky you may want to comment on that further? Yes Kelly I 100% agree.
We do think the momentum that we've had in Texas since we've been there 3 years ago that we can take these commercial strategies that we're talking about and make it work for us.
We're very excited about the 30 locations that we've got.
We got them at a lesser costs than we originally looked at.
We're having good success in hiring.
We've got a good pipeline of people that are ready to join BB&amp;T.
They enjoy working for BB&amp;T.
They see the brand as a differentiated brand.
We feel very good about our opening schedule.
We'll have a couple of these now open in the next couple of weeks.
We think all of them will be opened by midyear.
And the expectation is that we'll hit the ground running and do very very well.
So we're excited about this strategy.
And as Kelly said we're still looking for other opportunities but this means that we move forward and not sit still.
Research Division</strong> And then Kelly just as my follow-up here.
You mentioned real briefly on some of the risk involved in leveraged loan growth that some of your competitors are putting on but you guys are avoiding.
Could you provide a little bit more commentary on the types of leveraged loans you're referring to and maybe what type of banks are adding these loans? Yes let me let Clarke handle that Craig.
I think he can do a better job on that.
Craig if you look at the production statistics a big part of the market growth right now on the C&amp;I space is leveraged finance and a lot of it's around the low-rate environment.
So what we see is primarily M&amp;A-driven dividend and recap-type structures driving a lot of that growth.
We see both large banks and similar regional peers actively participating in that market and we just still feel like that's outside our risk appetite so we have purposely avoided the majority of that and continue to stick to our long-term underwriting standards even in the middle market space.
So again it's very prevalent right now.
Fourth quarter was a record origination quarter for the leveraged finance market.
We'll go to Matthew O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Adam Chaim in for Matt O'Connor.
I just had a question on loan growth.
I know you attributed some of the softer growth in 4Q possibly to underwriting standards or at least versus peers.
How much of an impact do you think came from the tax and other uncertainties coming out of Washington? And what are you hearing from clients in the New Year with most of this behind them? It sounds like much hasn't changed given the 1Q guidance.
Is this more debt ceiling talk? What are you hearing from them in the new year? Adam what we're seeing is there's contained uncertainty out there.
This whole fiscal cliff debate what was going on with taxes now the debt ceiling the general economy the world geopolitical situation the world economy.
Pending health care cost is coming in 2014.
All that still is weighing on businesses and we're still seeing that as we talk to businesses.
I think they're still a bit cautious.
They're being very careful.
I think that manifests itself in just being very careful about what they borrow.
But we are seeing increased borrowings and that's good but they're not borrowing what their signing the notes for.
We're not seeing significant increases in utilization and I think that bodes well.
All we can do right now is be sure we're meeting the needs of the clients that are -- that we are talking to and we're doing that and then as the economy improves and certainty builds back in then we think that loan growth will be accelerating for us.
So we feel pretty good about how we're positioned.
As Kelly said production looked really good in the Community Bank year-over-year and on a linked quarter basis.
I think that builds momentum and commercial real estate does in fact create a tremendous opportunity nicely up over last year and a nice run rate in terms of third quarter annualized growth.
So we feel good about both the C&amp;I piece and the CRE piece despite the difficult conditions.
As Kelly said end of the day all we can do is get up in the morning be enthusiastic about what we do live our mission go talk to clients and prospects meet their needs despite the conditions and if we do that we think we can be a big winner in this.
Adam I would just point out too also just a clarification that the 2% to 4% guidance that we've given you is only for the first quarter.
To be honest depending on how things happen in Washington I personally think again as I said if we get just a reasonable agreement with regard to some of these fiscal issues I think there's a very good chance that you're going to see some pickup in momentum in the economy.
You're going to clearly see some pickup in momentum in borrowing.
I'll remind you again people have just not been and companies have not been borrowing for 2 to 3 years.
There's a lot of plant a lot of equipment a lot of computers that need to be replaced.
We could all be pleasantly surprised with the level of loan growth we see as we head through the course of this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one quick one on Colonial.
I'm sorry if you've just touched on this already.
But the interest income came in a bit higher than expected in the quarter only down a few million but the FDIC loss share came in higher as well.
How does this -- how does the FDIC loss share trend from here? And is there any significant impact from the net Colonial contribution versus what was provided in last quarter's presentation? I don't think that an update was given there.
Yes Adam this is Daryl.
What I would tell you is we didn't put it back in because there isn't a material difference for 2013 and 2014.
You are correct it did come in a little bit stronger in the fourth quarter.
My numbers when we ran them in the fourth quarter it's about a $10 million difference from what we had in the fourth quarter for all of 2013.
So that's why we didn't provide it.
So I'd used the same numbers that we gave you last quarter as you look out into '13 and '14.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the FDIC loss shares specifically should that come down to more normal levels in 1Q? It will follow the same trend that we had in the last exhibit that we had in the last quarter.
So it's pretty consistent with what we had projected.
So the FDIC loss share negative will become less of a negative throughout the next 2 years.
We'll go next to Michael Rose with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on your comments Kelly about loan growth potentially being a tailwind.
And maybe we can ask it from a geographic perspective.
Are you starting to see a lift in some of the more troubled markets like Florida and Georgia and kind of what's the outlook there if the general economic environment improves and how would that translate over the next couple of quarters for loan growth? Yes.
So Michael I think we are clearly seeing -- I mean if you look at overall attitudes today versus a year ago I'd say across the board is more positive just because frankly as time goes on people kind of get tired of feeling bad and they start little turning positive just to -- as passage of time but also we're past the election.
Whether you're aware or not it's done.
That's a certainty.
You know what you're dealing with so that's kind of turning positive.
The real estate market overall is clearly improving.
I mean there was some news that came out yesterday just in terms of overall real estate momentum across the country is improving substantial improvement in Florida and places like that.
Atlanta is still dragging its feet a little bit but it's improving.
And really the only hangover is lodge and that's getting ready to improve in my opinion because there's a huge increase in demand for houses and there's not been any houses built in a long time.
So I think you're going to see places like Florida and places like Atlanta have a relatively faster ramp-up over the next year or so.
To be honest with you all of that general improvement in real estate is really big news for BB&amp;T in 2 regards: one it improves our overall credit quality metrics pretty substantially because that means our NPAs will go down faster.
It means our opportunity to grow CRE ramps up faster.
The general economic conditions improve faster.
So it's overall really good news for us particularly because in those markets like Florida et cetera we've got pretty large shares of deposits like fifth market share but we have tiny shares in terms of loans and fees.
And so as those markets come back it's a real boomerang opportunity for us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just as a follow-up to that your ADC portfolio has clearly come down.
You've avoided that category and run it down but now you're starting to see some of your competitors go a little bit more aggressively into that.
What's your appetite particularly in some of those more stressed markets as they housing...
Our appetite for ADC is very positive.
We've always been a really big ADC lender.
We never intended to convey that we were getting out of ADC.
We just had a truckload that we needed to unload and we needed for the market to stabilize but we're really really good at that and -- so we've charged our people to be back in the market looking for ADC.
Now to be honest with you we're looking for the better players.
We're not -- we'll go -- a lot of people got and we got little bit of this of what we call the pickup truck operators were just building 2 or 3 houses and that kind of thing and that's the riskiest part of that market.
So we will be back in it.
We'll be back into the better markets.
We'll be back into it with the better borrowers.
And we have improved our lending process to be honest even though we were very good.
We now have dedicated CRE lenders who will be the only ones dealing with those markets so our appetite I would say is strong and our capacity and capabilities are even stronger.
We'll go next to Kevin Fitzsimmons with Sandler O'Neill.
Just with the environment the way it is and I know you've referenced expecting to have positive operating leverage if you can just give a little more color give a little more detail on your plans on expenses.
I know in prior quarters you've talked about initiatives where you're looking for things.
Are there any kind of initiatives going on in the expense side right now to get leaner? And if you can give out a little color there.
So Kevin as we develop our '13 budget we basically took the position that we should be conservative with regard to revenue projections because we don't know what's going to happen in D.C.
As you just heard me say I think there's a decent chance that it could turn more positive but we are budgeting from a conservative point of view in terms of revenue.
Therefore to produce kind of bottom line numbers we're being really tough on expenses in all categories.
We did a clean-sheet-of-paper-type of look with regard to year-over-year category expenses.
And then that's laid on top of our expenses reconceptualization process that we put into place starting about early summer.
That's all unfolding just as we planned.
So while there are upward pressures Kevin on expenses in terms of regulatory cost technological cost we -- even though we have a relatively efficient company because we've grown relatively rapidly we still have a good opportunity in terms of being really tight with regard to expenses.
And so as you heard Daryl describe we would expect expenses to be kind of flattish as we go into this year.
We're holding FTEs kind of flattish.
We'd like to be down I guess when you consider foreclosures expense and that kind of thing.
If you look at the basic core expenses and looking at FTEs kind of flattish we may have some FTE expenses.
But the way we look to that just to give you perspective on how hard we've been we basically saying that we are only willing to invest in revenue producers this year that are immediately accretive.
And so it's been a tight budgeting process.
It's going to stay tight.
When the market is where it is I think you have to control the things that you can control and expenses are one of those and we're going to be extremely diligent and tough with regard to expense control.
So it's more continue to grind it out and focus on the expenses rather than expecting some big expense program to come around? Yes Kevin.
Truth is there are no big deals.
Everybody talks about all these big projects and all these big names and all this stuff but unless some companies are just really extraordinary poorly managed everybody can just go in and say we're going to wipe out 10% of our costs without completely destroying their franchise.
So yes its grinding it out.
It's a ground game.
It's day-to-day spending less on publications less on conventions less on -- a little less on entertainment.
I mean just grinding it out category-by-category.
It's thousands here and twenty-thousands there and it adds up to lots and lots of money but it's a ground game.
Fair point.
And just real quickly if you can just comment on buybacks.
I know you mentioned them as a priority -- a third priority and something you would consider.
But given your comments about acquisitions not being likely in the near term has that as a priority actually risen up the ranks in recent months? I would say as a practical matter yes because we're trying to be Kevin -- I talked a lot about this over the years we're trying to be very practical about mergers.
While I still believe there ought to be a major consolidation in the industry and while I still believe long term it will be and the short term for a variety of reasons it's just not happening.
And so we're not expecting it to happen.
We're not spending any time worrying about big deals.
We don't think big deals will happen.
We'll be looking at a few little deals but they're not going to be dramatic.
And so that does raise the probability of buybacks and we will execute on those according to capacity and according to price.
Buybacks is a function not just of how much capacity you have but also whether it's a good internal return on your investment.
So as we look at the price relative to our book value and the earnings projections off of the return in capital we'll make the right decision and -- but in some I would say your conclusion is right.
You'd expect us this year to be relatively more aggressive than in past years.
We'll take our next question from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question on a slightly separate line which was on the NPLs and the credit guidance.
So your nonperforming assets came down pretty sharply in the quarter down about 11% Q-on-Q.
Your NPAs came down about to 11% Q-on-Q.
But then the guidance for net charge-offs going forward is only down a couple of basis points for the first quarter.
So I just wanted to make sure I understood why there was a little bit more aggressive decline in NPLs going forward? And maybe you could let -- help us understand if you think the NP and NPL reduction is close to being done? Betsy this is Clarke.
That's a fair question.
We're pleased that the accelerated results in the fourth quarter are frankly a little bit better than we thought.
We're still trying very hard to clean out the residual particularly housing-related exposures in the commercial book.
Our Alt-A mortgages and our DRL land loans and so that has higher loss content.
So that's one reason the loss rates continue to be up some and not down as quickly as we would like to see although we feel very optimistic that we can start seeing lower loss rates as we move forward into the year.
One of the things that gives us a lot of confidence about that is our nonaccrual inflows are continuing to come down and that's the biggest driver.
We have more flexibility as those inflows come down to be less aggressive about liquidations in our -- in the marks we take there.
So we believe that nonaccrual inflow number coming down gives us ability to see lower loss content as we move forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So -- and then to your point as you get through the higher loss content asset reduction how long do you think that lasts? Is it that another 1 2 quarters or is that for the full year? Well we certainly -- as we look and think about normalized loss rates we've talked about before longer-term we see a 55 to 75 basis point expectation given the mix that we are building and consciously underwriting to.
Obviously we're 100 basis points today.
So there's still a lot of room for us to have benefit there as we move toward normalized losses.
It will take beyond '13 for us to get there.
So the good news is we still have room to go that will inure as we move forward over the next couple of years.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
I was just wondering because in your slide deck you say "and related to the NCOs that we go to the roughly 1% NCO in 1Q '13 and then trend lower thereafter " so I'm just wondering what that ramp is that you're expecting and you explained it so thanks a lot.
We'll go next to Kevin (sic) [Kenneth] Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on the operating leverage question.
Daryl I believe in that presentation in December you had talked about GAAP expenses being down about 1% to 2% this year and I believe that that ties to what you're saying about down environmental expenses and kind of flat discretionary.
So I wanted to just see if that's kind of the right magnitude.
And then from the operating leverage perspective just can you give us some context in terms of how conservative you are being around your thoughts around total revenue growth this year because obviously you have the purchase accounting coming down and you have the tough mortgage comp to fend off as well? Okay Ken so you are correct on the noninterest expenses.
We are going to see it down probably a little over 2% because of I'd say the foreclosure costs professional services and loan and lease expenses being the main drivers.
On the revenue side based upon what we see as Kelly's remarks with the economy where it is at sluggish growth and we're saying flattish revenue if we get any benefit of either a stronger economy or a steeper yield curve we can have positive revenue.
But right now our positive operating leverage is coming from negative expenses and flattish revenue.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got -- okay great.
And then my second question is could you talk about the insurance business with a little bit more detail? Obviously the year-over-year comp this year will be positive because of the Crump deal.
But I know you -- and Kelly you mentioned kind of the strengthening underlying did on the pricing side.
What's the organic growth opportunity in the insurance business and also what are you continuing to see on the acquisition side on that front as well? Yes this is Chris.
Good question.
I would say just sort of high level in the insurance business we're sort of -- you typically see a rise in rates that will occur sharply over a couple of years.
What we're in is a more slow bleed up if you will.
I mean we're probably 1 year into what could be a 3- to 5-year kind of slower migration.
So this year we saw same-store sales up 4.7%.
But if you noted the fourth quarter over fourth it was up 7% which indicates some positive edge on price firming.
So this really happens we think over the next 3 to 5 years in about 4 different ways.
First you get the firmness in pricing that will come to us and should come over like I say 3 to 5 years.
With any improvement in the economy like Kelly was talking about you really begin to drive more units.
And so you have more exposures to cover which is a volume driver.
And then thirdly we have these various synergies that we've talked about.
You just alluded the Crump.
With Crump we have on the P&amp;C side cost takeout us we put those 2 companies together.
On the revenue side we have really kind of several drivers.
We have one cross-sell and more through a dedicated team that we built internally cross-selling insurance to our wealth clients our broker-dealer clients our P&amp;C insurance clients.
We have the opportunity as Kelly alluded to earlier to drive the institutional side of the business.
We have the independent side we think sort of hit a bottom if you will this past year with uncertain sort of tax laws.
We think that has potential to kind of come back closer to average.
And so you have a number of synergies in the business.
We didn't talk about the health care reform.
That's a whole other approach that we have working.
And then fourthly as you get sort of 2 years into this 3- to 5-year cycle as you know the business works we have profit commissions that will come back to us really.
Then there's no cost in profit commissions.
As you perform for your underwriters you get a sharing of the profit over time.
So we think we are well positioned.
In fact we don't know of another platform that's positioned this well and we think it's really up from here in the next 3 to 5 years so we feel very strong about it.
We'll take our next question from Greg Ketron with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Question on the loan growth or market opportunities and maybe this is for you Kelly.
As you look across the footprint you look at some -- what could be some of the loan growth drivers as 2013 progresses.
You have had M&amp;A in the marketplace through the RBC acquisition by PNC and then Wells Fargo's continued integration of Wachovia.
And then also the securitization markets just kind of being really not starting up at this point and some maturities coming out of CMBS channels.
And I was just wondering as you get beyond the first quarter and the loan growth of 2% to 4% and we move through the rest of 2013 what kind of opportunities do you think may exist on the loan growth side? Well that's what we're all trying to figure out so it's a good question.
I think you'll see that kind of multifaceted.
The first thing you're going to see if the economy ramps up is you're going to begin to see some draw down of existing credit lines.
I mean our utilization rates are still low.
And so without any new production you could see a substantial increase in our book just because of the increase in utilization rates.
Then you are going to see a substantial change I believe in our numbers in terms of our effective execution on high-quality CRE.
I mean that's been a substantial negative runoff.
I mean if you switch that from big negative to slightly positive it's a huge ramp-up in terms of increased outstandings.
You alluded to disruption in the marketplace that is still accruing to our benefit.
We think the market will settle down.
Those companies will be really good competitors but it takes more time than everybody thinks to settle into some of these major acquisitions.
And so we are still benefiting from that and will during the course of this year and a little bit of into next year.
The reintermediations impact on loan growth is something I've been talking about for 3 or 4 years.
It's not been as pronounced at this point as I thought it would be but it is happening and I think it is going to accelerate.
And so there are a lot of maturities out there in the pipeline that are going to have to be placed and I think a lot of that is going to end up on bank balance sheets and we have a good appetite for that.
So I think it'll be a widespread array of loan opportunities and then when you add to that our initiatives in terms of increased corporate banking platforms increased strategy commercial strategies in Texas and continue to grow off a really good foundation in our Specialized Lending businesses expanding our mortgage business in terms of wholesale financing all the financing in the wholesale side we just have a long list to be honest of growth opportunities.
And so I'd say in terms of the loan growth we're being consciously always trying be conservative.
But when you kind of look at what we're doing it's hard to say that there's not more reason to be a little more optimistic.
Research Division</strong> And then on the pricing side especially in areas like commercial real estate you talked about credit slippage.
How are you seeing the pricing trends in your marketplace? Greg this is Clarke.
Pricing remains very competitive as you can imagine particularly as you go up the risk curve on the investment grade side.
But for us positively while we continue to see runoff of the older assets our new loan spreads were relatively stable for the quarter.
To remind you all we talked about last time our C&amp;I spread right now is 230 off.
This is a pretty good spread but the CRE opportunity it tends to run 80 basis points or more above our C&amp;I rate.
So as we can gain more traction as Kelly said that really gives us a nice margin benefit.
We'll go next to Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Thomas LeTrent on behalf of Paul.
Two quick questions for you guys.
I believe in the Residential Mortgage Banking segment you guys have been about I don't know 40-60 retail to correspondent.
Can you talk a little bit about how you see that mix developing going forward? Yes Tom this is Clarke.
Historically we were primarily a retail originator but over the years as there was disruption in the correspondent side we have dramatically benefited from that.
We have a very clean program we've run over the years.
We never got involved to any degree in the broker side.
So we have a lot of community banks and high-quality private correspondents over our network.
And so over the last couple of years you've seen a little more proportion in that segment than our Retail segment.
And so while we certainly wouldn't want to be overweighted on the correspondent channel we'd expect that to be variable from year-to-year and so we would expect particularly as we look into '13 maybe a little higher level of correspondent to retail.
But as rates go back up and over time you could see those numbers be a little more consistent to one another.
One other benefit we have is we did establish a mandatory delivery program this year.
We actually originated a couple of billion almost $3 billion in that channel this year.
So that's another nice growth opportunity for us.
So all in all we would see a higher percentage of correspondent in our platform that we have historically had but we think the risk profile is very very good.
Just a general point for you and others and just if you think about BB&amp;T's lending strategy if you go back 5 10 years ago basically all of our lending strategies were in our existing footprint kind of the Mid-Atlantic Southeast.
But we have consciously expanded through a national lending strategy but in what we consider to be very controlled focused areas.
So for example we have a national specialized lending strategy in certain businesses where we are really really good at it.
Our Corporate Banking is now a national lending strategy and our mortgage is a national lending strategy.
But we do that through this correspondent network where we can get high-quality paper on an inefficient -- on an efficient basis to lever up our manufacturing process.
And so that's just one example of several of how we moved I think judiciously into a national lending platform on a very economical basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then one quick follow-up.
In your C&amp;I growth can you talk a little bit about where you're seeing I guess the growth come from like what sectors specifically if you can? Yes Thomas.
We're seeing as Kelly mentioned we've had 5 or 6 initiatives that we've been working on that we're seeing some really good performance from '11 to '12 and indicators as we go into '13.
Example asset-based lending year-over-year production was up 40%.
We feel very good about that.
The dealer opportunity having over 6 000 dealers in this wholesale opportunity is tremendous for us.
We have a pipeline approaching $500 million.
We've got tremendous opportunity to grow that book off of a big retail paper business something in the wholesale we never did much of.
Small commercial is another thing we put a lot of emphasis on improving our process.
We're seeing small commercial pick up year-over-year 15%.
But linked quarter annualized up 55%.
So focusing on that core Community Bank lending seems to be going very very well along with process change.
Income-producing properties up 64% linked annualized; year-over-year up 60%.
Our regional Corporate Banking not the national platform that Kelly talked about up 33% year-over-year; 39% linked quarter annualized.
And we also have a professional association strategy that we're working on with doctors lawyers et cetera that is a core function within the Community Bank.
So partnering with these large corporate initiatives partnering with these specialized lending initiatives we see a broad-based opportunity in lending that if we can continue to do our jobs meeting the value proposition that we put forth to our customers and hopefully get a little help in terms of leadership toward the fiscal issues that our country faces that could be a key that could really turn on some very nice loan growth for us.
But irrespective of that we're going to be really focused on these initiatives.
We see it playing out broadly across our footprint.
Washington D.C.'s is doing well; north Atlanta the urban part of Atlanta is doing well; Florida; our Texas opportunity.
We just see some broad-based opportunities across-the-board and we're going to keep pushing do underwriting correctly be as judicious as we can to deliver value hold up pricing as best as we can but also be mindful of competition.
And we feel very good about these broad-based opportunities.
And then just one final note on loans just outside the Community Bank the -- remember we've got these 8 corporate verticals that we've been putting into place for the last 2 or 3 years they are being executed on.
We have frankly relatively small market shares in the national space in these verticals and so that'll add supplemental growth in our Corporate Banking area as well.
We'll go next to John Pancari with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the magnitude or the benefit of stabilization in commercial real estate and then ultimately the growth you could see there? I know you mentioned it a couple of times Kelly.
Just want to get an idea just how much of a benefit could we actually see in 2013 as this stabilizes and you actually start to see some growth? Well that's a good question and we haven't to this point tried to project an absolute mathematical target on that.
But let me just give you a perspective on it.
That's been a very very very big part of our business for really in my whole 40 years.
And to be honest with you notwithstanding the last 3 or 4 years we've made a lot of money in real estate over the long term.
We gave back some of it in the last 2 or 3 years.
But overall the long-term return on that investment has been phenomenal so we are very good at that.
When done properly it's a very good business.
But it's been running down at a 30-plus percent clip for the last couple of years and we now see a bottom.
We're looking for growth.
So I think the mathematical impact on that on total portfolio could be a 1 point or 2 just when you turn that in terms of the marginal incremental benefit on that.
So I think it's very positive John.
I think it's something we know how to do really well and we are frankly in a lot of good markets where our value proposition is very very strong and the opportunity for us to move relationships from some of these other companies that don't have quite the capacity we have today is very very good.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you think that inflection is something that's likely over the next couple of quarters? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right and then my second question on the M&amp;A side I know Kelly you mentioned you could see some smaller deals.
Can you remind us how you would characterize a smaller deal in terms of the asset size? So I think in terms of smaller deals as being -- I don't want hurt anybody's feelings but I think in terms of smaller deals for us as being that $3 billion to $10 billion.
You're going to probably see a lot of deals done out there in the $1 billion level.
You're unlikely to see us doing something in the $1 billion level.
You never say never in this business.
If you had some little deal -- a really strategically significant thing in one little market you might do something but I would think in terms of $3 billion to $10 billion.
And there are a number of opportunities in the whole space that we think may become available in that area.
Really if you can do $3 billion $4 billion $5 billion deal in this environment we're really good at it.
We have a very efficient merger and conversion team.
And so we think it's what I'd call the ground game of merger strategy.
It's up and running well.
We're on the street talking to other people that are considering making changes.
And so I think that's where you'll see the predominant activity.
Although things could change but as I said before I do not expect it.
We'll go next to Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just to -- Kelly I'm sorry if you've already covered this but you sound perhaps a bit more optimistic in terms of the potential for commercial loan demand assuming things can get settled a bit in D.C.
I guess I'm curious as to if you've seen any increased demand in the commercial commitment since the election or are your borrowers continuing to more or less sit on their hands awaiting further information and further clarity out of Washington? No there's actually been some ramp-up in terms of loan production.
I mentioned earlier you might not have been on the call but I mentioned that for example in the Community Bank our loan production year-over-year was up 26%.
For the fourth quarter annualized it was up 32% compared to the third.
So clearly there is increased demand out there in terms of getting -- kind of what I call kind of getting ready to play and so we're booking CRE commitments that are unfunded.
We're booking lines of credit for companies that are not yet funded.
So yes there is -- clearly there's a more positive attitude than a year ago.
And I think that what they're doing basically is they're locking in their commitments.
They're getting their plans ready to go.
And then they want to see things settle down.
They've seen now what the deal is on taxes.
Not what they wanted but it's not draconian.
And now they just got to see that we're not going to run off the cliff in terms of the economy because of the fiscal issues and when that resolves itself which I think it will in a reasonable way I think you're going to see people decide that we just got to go ahead and run our business.
CEOs have a natural process.
When things are really getting worse they hunker down completely.
When things begin to stabilize they begin to look around a little bit.
They remain conservative.
And then at some point when things look a little bit bright you just have to get back to say we just got to run our business.
And that's where we are today and I think you will see companies decide to make investments and I think we're going to be the beneficiary of that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And for my follow-up in terms of the mortgage sales that you made in the quarter can you comment on the gain on sale margins on those and what your expectations are for those margins over the course of 2013? Yes Matt.
You may not have been on it but we did cover that but I'll give it to you again.
That's okay.
Fourth quarter our gain on margins were 229 basis points about $160 million in dollar terms.
As we look out into '13 we expect some pretty good volume compared to 2012 although we'll probably have slightly tighter margins going forward.
Right now our retail margins are well north of 400.
Probably as you get into '13 that's going to trend down at least into the 300s.
And where our margins over our correspondent network are over 100 that's going to pierce through 100 sometime throughout the '13.
We'll take our next question from Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My questions have been asked and answered.
While we still have several questions in the queue we need to conclude the call given the time.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Kelly King for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks everybody for being with us today.
We really appreciate it.
I think what you've heard us say is that it was a really good quarter a great year.
We have some reservation about the economy but relative to that we feel very bullish about our business as we go forward.
Notwithstanding the fact that we just celebrated our 140th year anniversary we feel very strongly our best days are ahead and we look forward to reporting that to you going forward.
Have a great day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Greetings ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the BB&amp;T Corporation First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call on April 18.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Alan Greer Director of Investor Relations at BB&amp;T Corporation.
Thank you.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Tiffany and good morning everyone and thanks to all of our listeners for joining us today.
We have with us Kelly King our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Daryl Bible our Chief Financial Officer who will review the results for the first quarter as well as provide a look ahead.
We also have other members of our executive management team who are with us to participate in the Q&amp;A session: Chris Henson our Chief Operating Officer; Ricky Brown the President of our Community Banking; and Clarke Starnes our Chief Risk Officer.
We will be referencing a slide presentation during our remarks today.
A copy of the presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental financial information are available on our website.
After Kelly and Daryl have made their remarks we will pause to have Tiffany come back on the line and explain how you may participate in the Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin let me remind you that BB&amp;T does not provide public earnings predictions or forecasts.
However there may be statements made during the course of this call that express management's intents beliefs or expectations.
BB&amp;T's actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could affect management's forward-looking statements are presented on Slide 2 of our presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
Our presentation includes certain non-GAAP disclosures.
Please refer to Page 2 and the appendix of the presentation for the appropriate reconciliations to GAAP.
With that I'll turn it over to Kelly.
Thank you Alan.
Good morning everybody and thanks again for joining our call and thanks for your interest in our company.
So we're really pleased with the earnings for the quarter and frankly we're fairly optimistic about improving loan growth being sustainable that we saw towards the end of the quarter.
Recall everybody that the first quarter is always kind of challenging for us due to seasonal factors.
But even so we think we had reasonably strong results which included revenue growth over last year and really very good expense control versus the last quarter.
So if we look at net income on a GAAP basis it was $210 million or $0.29 per share which included the impacts of the tax adjustment which you are all familiar with.
If you exclude that tax adjustment our net income was $491 million up 13.9% versus like-like quarter.
So if you look at the EPS we're $0.69 an increase of 13.1% versus like-quarter.
So we feel good about that.
In revenues fully tax equivalent revenues were $2.5 billion which was up 4.9% versus the first quarter.
Now -- I mean first quarter last year and we were down on linked quarter.
That was due to slower mortgage income and lower net interest income and the lower net interest income was a function of less loan growth and fewer days in the last quarter and frankly just a tough interest rate environment with a low to flat yield curve.
We did have strong results in insurance driven by Crump and 5.5% organic insurance growth so that business is doing extremely well.
And the result of that was our fee income ratio increased to 42.9% versus 41% last first quarter.
In the loan area it's been a challenging quarter for loans.
Our average loans did decline 1.4%.
That was consistent with our mid-quarter guidance versus fourth quarter.
It did increase 5.3% versus the first quarter last year.
The slower growth for this quarter was due to lower Mortgage Warehouse Lending to covered runoff which as expected is continuing and seasonal influence in our other businesses.
Now as you recall last year -- last quarter we had a reclass from C&amp;I to CRE.
So if you adjust C&amp;I growth it was pretty strong 4.5% annualized.
Sales Finance grew 6% annualized versus the fourth so we felt good about that.
And other lending subsidiaries grew 15.2% versus the first quarter which you have to compare because of seasonality so that's strong.
I would point out importantly that March was our strongest production month in our history.
So again there's some reason to be encouraged about loan growth as we head into the second.
We had another great deposit quarter.
Although total deposits decreased $1.3 billion that was as planned.
Our noninterest-bearing deposits increased 8.5% versus fourth quarter.
So consistent with our several year diversification strategy deposit mix improved and total cost declined which will continue.
On the credit quality all was good.
NPA decreased $123 million or 8% versus fourth quarter.
Foreclosed real estate declined 17%.
NPLs declined 7%.
And really all of the credit quality trends look good and Daryl will give you a little bit more detail on that in a little bit.
In the expense area we feel good about that.
Noninterest expenses decreased an annualized 20% versus the fourth quarter.
We did achieve positive operating leverage.
And the expense reduction was largely from lower credit-related costs including foreclosed property expenses professional services and loan-related expenses.
I would point out that expenses are a major focus for our company for this year.
We recognize that this is a slow economy.
We think frankly the economies will be fairly slow for the rest of this year maybe the next 2 or 3 years.
And so we have to adjust our business strategies accordingly.
As you recall last year we started a process of reconceptualizing our expense structure.
That is continuing with enhanced focus.
And really what we're trying to do is focus on what we do and how we do it.
So we're going to be finding ways to reconceptualize our business -- restructure our business and in the process relatively reduce our expenses.
So we think we have legs in terms of expense control and you just saw a beginning of that in the first quarter.
If you're following along on the slide deck let's go to Slide 4.
Again referring to the slow economy we feel really good about having a diversified revenue stream.
I wouldn't want to be totally spread-dependent in this kind of environment.
If you look at that revenue mix pie chart we're very pleased that Community Bank produces 47% directly of our revenue mix; 15% from Insurance; 12% from Financial Services which includes Asset Management and Corporate Banking; 11% for Mortgage; and then 8% and 7% respectively from Specialized Lending and Dealer Financial Services.
So we're diversified from the Community Bank to the non-Community Bank and we're well diversified in the non-Community Bank.
So that gives us comfort as we go forward.
I would point out on that right-hand chart and I think this is a very important issue that we have we think the best value proposition in the marketplace and -- but we focus on quality relative to price in terms of value offering.
And it's important to note that during the last 5 years kind of all the way through this cycle our revenue was up 31.8% where our peer medium was 7.4%.
What happens in a tough environment is the consumers become more discerning and they move to the higher-value proposition.
We think that's exactly what played out in the last 5 years.
It doesn't guarantee anything for the future but it does portend if you keep your focus on that is it gives you probability of better revenue growth going forward.
Looking at Slide 5.
In terms of loan growth obviously loan growth was relatively strong in the fourth quarter last year.
But then as we headed into the first quarter this year frankly loans just -- production just hit a wall.
I think all of us are trying to figure out kind of what happened.
I personally think it's because -- all that's been going on in Washington and the concerns that business people still have around taxes and regulations and insurance.
And all of that all together leaves business people still very very hesitant to invest and we've seen the result of that.
So the economy is struggling to get solid footing and we'll see how that plays out.
We did see some positive signals towards the end of the first quarter in talking to business people.
There's a little bit of a move towards being willing to invest mostly because they kind of have to invest because they haven't invested for the last 5 years.
So that's a little bit encouraging in a weird kind of way.
If you look at our loan growth as I said we had to reclass last year.
So C&amp;I growth was up 4.5% and that reclass would show that CRE was down about 4.7%.
Now we are making a lot of effort to improve CRE as I told you and we're beginning to see some real opportunities there.
So I think that will begin to change as we go forward.
But I'm real pleased with C&amp;I 4.5% in this environment the way we lend is a really good result.
I would point out that despite the market conditions our end of period loans held for investment were approximately $1 billion higher than our first quarter average.
And again this momentum really started picking up in March.
It seems to be kind of continuing as we head into April.
So we think loan growth for the second quarter will be in the 2% to 4% range.
I know that's what we said last quarter but again we didn't expect the wall that we hit.
We could hit another wall; I don't really think so.
I think that spring is here people feel better in the spring.
And so a little detail on that.
Our C&amp;I CRE and Consumer pipelines are improving.
In fact they're really strong.
Auto demand has improved significantly.
It's really strong.
We expect double-digit growth in the second quarter there.
Other lending subsidiaries will spring back from seasonal headwinds.
I think they will grow in the low double digits in the second quarter.
So pretty good reasons to support a 2% to 4% kind of growth.
I would just reinforce to you that in banking there's loan growth and then there's profitable loan growth.
We are very disciplined.
A big difference between us and some competitors is we are not participating in the leveraged financing deals out there.
That is a huge part of what's going on in the industry.
Maybe it will work out for them.
We just not -- we think it's too much risk.
And we are not substantially changing our hold positions which others are doing.
And so we think our growth is very good relative to our discipline.
And frankly I'm very pleased with -- I'd much rather have long-term profitable loan growth than short-term growth that might not be as profitable.
So if you look at Slide 6 on deposits it was another great quarter for deposits.
We saw DDA noninterest-bearing deposits grow 8.5%.
We did shrink CDs by plan.
They were down 35% fourth to first and that is a part of our strategy in terms of frankly not needing as much deposit growth because of loan growth being timid and controlling our costs.
So you could see that our costs went down again from 0.38% in the fourth to 0.36% in the first down substantially from 0.49% a year ago.
And so what we expect is that we'll see stronger noninterest-bearing deposit growth during the second quarter and we think we'll be below 0.30% by the year end.
So we feel good about where deposits are going.
If you look at Page 7 just to give you a little bit of color about what we're going to do in this relatively slow environment.
I know for all of us in banking it's challenging.
It's certainly [indiscernible] in a difficult environment to be negative and kind of discouraged about it.
We view it as that's just what the rules of the game are.
The market's tough so we have to get tougher.
And so in our January planning conference our executive team came up with a number of initiatives to enhance revenue growth in spite of a tough economy.
We are continuing our strategy at an accelerated pace with regard to expanding corporate banking in key national markets.
For example we've recently opened offices in San Francisco Chicago and Cincinnati really good initial results from that.
I'll remind you this is not a change in BB&amp;T's discipline in terms of underwriting.
This is doing the same kind of corporate banking we've always done.
The granularity is extremely small and so we're not doing big deals out of market.
We're doing relatively smaller deals and we have people on the ground doing banking the way we've always done it.
We continue to expand our adviser capacity in wealth management and the broker-dealer.
For example we've recently expanded in Florida Texas and Washington and we'll continue to invest there for revenue growth.
Really big opportunity for us in life insurance in Crump because that is settling in and frankly is exceeding our expectations.
We have this whopping opportunity in institutional sales initiatives through Crump where basically our Crump people work with large insurance companies and other financial institutions to support their desire to sell life products to their wealth clients.
So for example life sales were up 18% over our first quarter '12.
So that strategy is really really working and has a lot of future opportunity.
We're going to continue to expand our mortgage correspondent lending network.
We'll continue to expand our retail mortgage lending.
Frankly that's just more producers and then relatively newer markets.
We're excited about our commercial expansion in Texas.
Recall we mentioned that we will be opening 30 new branches in Texas.
We've already opened -- or will have opened by June 26 of those and the other 4 will follow right along.
Those branches are focused in Dallas Houston Austin and San Antonio.
And the opportunity there is absolutely enormous.
The early feedback from that area for us is fantastic.
About 30 days ago I took our entire senior leadership team down to Texas about 120 people and we spent a whole day making 500 calls in the marketplace and the results were just phenomenal.
So we feel really good about Texas.
And then finally we're going to realize substantial revenue opportunities in our legacy Colonial markets really focusing on Alabama Florida Texas.
Just to give you a mathematical perspective so in those markets our revenue per FTE in 2011 was $268 000; 2012 it's $361 000.
At 2015 we think it'll be $549 000.
So as we ramp up existing cost structures this is not additional cost this is just more revenue these folks getting more seasoned and more productive in our system.
A huge revenue opportunity there for us.
So a lot of initiatives that are well under way and we expect good results for that for the rest of '13 and as we head into '14.
Let me turn it to Daryl now for some more details.
Daryl? Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
I'm going to talk about credit quality net interest margin fee income noninterest expense capital and our segment performance.
On Slide 8 you can see that our credit metrics have continued improvement across the board.
Nonperforming assets declined 8% during the first quarter and are down 37% since last year.
Charge-offs declined to 98 basis points during the first quarter.
We expect modest improvement in nonperforming assets during the second quarter and we anticipate net charge-offs will continue to trend lower throughout the year.
Turning to Slide 9.
While delinquencies can fluctuate due to seasonality our 30 to 89 and 90-day plus past dues both improved nicely this quarter.
During the first quarter our allowance to nonperforming loans increased from 1.37x to 1.43x showing continued improvement in the underlying credit trends.
We also had a lower reserve release during the quarter.
Excluding covered we released $28 million this quarter versus $39 million in the prior quarter.
As other portfolios normalize we expect to have further modest reserve releases.
Continuing on Slide 10.
Net interest margin came in at 3.76% down 8 basis points from last quarter and consistent with our guidance.
The decrease was driven by declines in both yields and balances of covered assets.
Looking to the second quarter we expect margins to be down another 10 basis points driven mainly by lower rates on new earning assets runoff of covered assets and tighter credit spreads partially offset by the benefit from continued decline in funding costs and favorable asset and funding mix changes.
Looking out into the year we expect more modest declines in net interest margin.
As you can see in the lower graph we remain slightly asset-sensitive and are positioned well for rising rates.
Turning to Slide 11.
Our fee income ratio for the first quarter decreased to 42.9% versus 44.1% in the fourth quarter but up from 41% in the first quarter.
As Kelly said earlier we are very pleased with insurance markets firming.
It began in wholesale and are now spreading to the retail side of the business.
We expect this firming to be more sustainable over a longer period.
Mortgage Banking produced record originations in the first quarter.
However spreads decreased 82 basis points to 165 compared with last quarter resulting in lower gains on sale.
The gain on sale margin declined for 2 reasons: 2/3 of the mortgage business is correspondent which has tighter margins and reacts quicker to market rate changes.
On the retail side we are being more aggressive on spreads to acquire more purchase activity.
We really think purchase loans are beneficial.
This will be favorable as refinancing slows down.
Looking forward we expect Mortgage Banking activity in the second quarter to be similar to the first quarter due to a greater emphasis on [indiscernible] refinancings increased volume on our mandatory delivery and cross-selling with our Mortgage Warehouse Lending clients.
Service charges declined $11 million due to seasonality and fewer processing days but we are growing retail accounts.
We expect service charge income to grow in the coming quarters.
FDIC loss share income improved due to the higher offset for the provision for covered loans and reduced accretion.
Other income was down $13 million due to lower income on other investments.
Looking on Slide 12.
We had excellent results in expense control this quarter.
Our noninterest expense was down $74 million linked-quarter or 20% annualized.
Personnel expenses declined due to a slight reduction in FTEs or lower incentives offset by higher payroll taxes.
Foreclosed property expense was down $30 million from last quarter because of lower foreclosed property balances.
Remember our efficiency ratio calculation excludes foreclosed property expense which is consistent with the industry.
On a GAAP basis including this expense our efficiency ratio improved the last 2 quarters.
Loan-related expense was down $15 million compared to fourth quarter.
This was due to lower expenses related to the mortgage loan repurchase expense.
Professional service expense was down $10 million due to lower credit-related legal costs.
And finally the effective tax rate for the quarter was 27% excluding the tax adjustment.
We expect a similar rate in the second quarter.
Given the challenging revenue environment we believe we can continue to drive our expenses lower to achieve positive operating leverage next quarter and for the rest of the year.
Turning to Slide 13.
Tier 1 common was 9.2%.
Under Basel III Tier 1 common was 7.8%.
This estimate does not include mitigating actions we will take to lower our risk-weighted assets and improve our capital ratios for Basel III.
As you know we reported in our 10-K the need to modify our calculation of risk-weighted assets.
We have reviewed our regulatory capital calculation process.
The primary drivers for the revision in risk-weighted assets are unfunded lending commitments and mortgage loans.
The revised calculation reflects a very conservative interpretation of the regulatory guidance.
When it comes to CCAR we are focused on the resubmission which is due by June 11.
The regulators will then have 75 days to review it.
Dividends will be our first priority in the revised capital plan.
Now here are a few highlights from our segment disclosures.
Starting on Slide 14 Community Banking net income totaled $230 million showing strong growth versus common and linked-quarter.
Common quarter growth was due to lower credit-related expenses and stronger fee income.
Consistent with our growth strategy average dealer floor-plan loans increased $118 million compared with first quarter.
Turning to Slide 15.
Residential Mortgage income was up $15 million on a linked-quarter from a very strong fourth quarter and down from first quarter last year.
We had record originations totaling $8.7 billion plus our purchase mortgage activity was up 15% versus last year.
Looking at Dealer Financial Services on Slide 16 you'll see net income totaled $40 million.
That's flat compared to linked-quarter and down from last year.
The decrease in segment income is mostly due to higher loan loss provisions coupled with annual strong loan growth.
We continue to see strong demand with record originations this quarter of $1.5 billion.
That's 40% increase over last year and we continue to open new offices in strong markets.
On Slide 17 you can see that Specialized Lending businesses earned net income of $52 million.
Average loans grew 11% [indiscernible] quarter last year with strong performances in almost all of our businesses.
Moving to Slide 18.
At $30 million net income for Insurance Services was up significantly compared to last year.
We continue to take advantage of opportunities presented by Crump plus the benefits from firming market conditions.
Turning to Slide 19.
Financial Services generated $71 million in net income that was mostly driven by Corporate Banking and Wealth.
These businesses had loan growth of 31% and 19% respectively.
With that let me turn it back over to Kelly for closing remarks and Q&amp;A.
Thank you Daryl.
So what you've seen here is strong operating earnings a nice continued credit quality improvement beginning to see some real cost reduction benefits from less NPAs.
Of course the challenge is revenue but some improvement in loan momentum which we feel good about.
And as you could see we have a lot of key revenue initiatives in process that will accelerate during the course of the year.
So let me turn it now back to Alan for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Kelly.
We will now begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Tiffany at this time please come back on and explain how callers can participate in the question and answer session [ph].
[Operator Instructions] We will go ahead with our first question from Matthew O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess just a big picture question.
I think you had canceled the investor conference that's in a couple of weeks and obviously there's a CCAR submission.
I guess just anything behind all that? I mean it seems like most of the outlook comments are consistent with what you've been saying.
But just any comments on I guess the conference and then if you can elaborate on CCAR at all.
So Matt we just really wanted to have a little more time to get through the CCAR resubmission.
If we had a scheduled time we'd spend the whole time talking about resubmission and we -- when we have it we want to be focused on long-term strategic operating issues.
And so we just thought it would be better to kind of get past this kind of short-term noise so we could have a really substantive discussion.
We think investor conferences are more about long-term strategic issues than talking about the short-term things like we're talking about today.
CCAR resubmission as Daryl described we'll have our resubmission in by June 11.
They have 75 days to respond.
It's just a process that we have to go through.
We're optimistic about it.
But obviously you can't -- there are 2 rules now.
You used to say you can't fight DFA [ph] people say you can't segregate the Fed [ph].
So we'll see how it works out but we're optimistic about it.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess just in general I mean we're seeing some other banks making some adjustments to the qualitative parts of CCAR or beefing up some of their systems in risk management.
I mean there's obviously just a lot of regulatory kind of crossfires out there.
When you put all this stuff together do you think it will be meaningful from an expense point of view or strategy or just kind of day-to-day how things are going? I personally think this is an industry-wide phenomenon and I think all companies are having to invest enormously in not only all of the process that goes into CCAR which is enormous but also heightened regulatory focus in every part of the bank.
I mean it's across the industry.
I mean I've never seen such a broad-based intense level and increased regulatory scrutiny.
So it will be substantially expensive for us and everybody else in my humble opinion.
Now we recognize that and so we will be making investments that are necessary in terms of systems and all the things that are required some of which are kind of purely regulatory driven some of which is -- makes us a better company.
And -- but because it is substantial investment we are therefore making major focuses in terms of controlling expenses on other areas to compensate for it.
We'll take our next question from Michael Rose with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to get a sense on kind of what drove the rebound in the pipelines a little bit more specifically.
Was it in a certain category? And maybe how much did Texas contribute? Clarke is going to handle that.
Yes Michael this is Clarke Starnes.
We did see as Kelly said a pretty meaningful slowdown coming out of the end of the year really across the board but primarily in our large corporate segment.
That readjusted nicely.
And so toward the end of the quarter we've seen very healthy pipelines beginning to rebuild again in our corporate middle market segments.
But also in our community bank space we had very good pipelines.
Ricky can talk about that.
And we also saw nice increases in our consumer retail branch-oriented credits as well.
Yes thanks Clarke.
We did see Michael some improving commercial real estate pipelines.
We've put some focus on that.
It's been sort of broad-based multi-family some good office where retail is improving.
We've been pleased with the increase there.
We've redesigned our sales focus with our sales teams and that's beginning to bear some real fruit.
We also saw some broad-based C&amp;I improvement in pipelines.
And then certainly our focus on wholesale Sales Finance lending which is very positive coming off of our great dealer network that we have on the Sales Finance retail side showed some really great improvement.
The broad brush we see some nice improved activity.
As Kelly said the end of the first quarter we saw some momentum.
That pipeline continued to build and production compared favorably at least flat from a year ago.
So not up but not down from a year ago.
So we can build off this momentum and in the quarter really make this pipeline come to fruition and we're optimistic about the view for the second and beyond.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then Daryl as a follow-up can you just kind of maybe quantify what you mean by modest margin compression in the back half of the year? Anything related to the Colonial accretion has changed from that slide you included a couple of quarters ago? Yes Michael.
So I would say for the second quarter expect GAAP margin to decline up to 10 basis points.
And thereafter GAAP margin maybe a few basis points a quarter and that lingers out for third and fourth quarter.
If you look at the slide that we had 2 quarters ago if you recall in 2013 we had an estimate of $600 million in net interest income and then there was about $200 million negative number in FDIC last year.
We're tracking relatively close to that.
We're probably up about $15 million forecast overall for '13 so closer to 6 15.
And if you look at the negative FDIC last year for '13 we're at negative 2 20.
So within $5 million of what we said about 2 quarters ago.
We'll go to our next question from Craig Siegenthaler with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First just want to hit on regulatory capital and capital deployment.
And I heard your comments earlier that priority #1 is really increase the dividend.
But can you also comment on what capital mitigation strategies you have to improve your Basel III under the NPR? And also what should we think about long-term prospects for both buybacks and acquisitions? Craig so for Basel III we're still waiting to get the final rules out.
Hopefully later this quarter or maybe early third quarter is what we're hearing now.
I think there's a couple of examples.
If you look at in the mortgage area there's category 1 and category 2 differentiation.
Our focus would be much more on the category 1 redeployment on new originations so that we'd get more favorable risk-weighted asset treatment on those.
There are some existing loans that you could do some modifications on some floating rate mortgages by putting caps in and could potentially put you back in some category 1.
If you look at CRE underwriting Clarke might want to comment on it but I think if he modifies it a little bit we can maybe fall under the rules there to get the more favorable risk-weighted asset treatment.
Yes that's right.
So Craig we'll -- with the high-volatility CRE we think we can easily adjust around equity requirements and basic underwriting to get a favorable risk weighting on the good CRE loans that we make.
Your other question about deployment of capital I think we're really focused at serving our clients first organically and then making sure that we can pay the highest dividend allowable that's prudent for our company and acceptable by the regulators.
After that it's really -- those are just 2 main areas of focus for now.
Research Division</strong> All right so it sounds like M&amp;A and buybacks are definitely back of the line right now to the dividend focus in the second half? Yes.
That would be absolutely right Craig.
And our next question will be from Ibrahim Vinwalla [ph].
We'll take our next question from John Pancari with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us -- can you give us some additional color on new money yields on your new loan originations in the quarter? And how you're seeing that compared to what the runoff yield is on your loan portfolio I guess across product types as well? John this is Clarke Starnes.
We continue to see obviously deterioration in the new spreads versus the existing portfolio but it's moderating to some extent particularly in the C&amp;I world.
So our new money spreads for example in C&amp;I right now are about 2 20.
And on our CRE book we obviously get a premium there.
It's about 3 20.
Our consumer retail business is about the 2 25 level and our Sales Finance -- or Dealer Finance business is in about the 1 66 level.
Those are the primary areas that we're putting on the balance sheet right now outside our specialty lending areas and obviously those -- you can see the yields in our press release.
Those new spreads are lower than the existing portfolio.
So we continue to see very aggressive competition in the marketplace now but we think we're holding up our spreads as well as probably anybody out there.
Yes and if you look at what's running off versus what's going on I would say we have modest pressure on the loan side and on the security side.
Securities yields will probably come down a couple more basis points this quarter or throughout this -- the rest of this year as we reinvest versus what's rolling off and will also come down a little.
But if you look I mean our core margin this past quarter was actually up 1 basis point.
If you exclude the impact on covered we actually increased net interest income this quarter.
So our core businesses are actually doing really well.
We have offsets on the funding costs and we're working really hard in diversifying our mixes.
Our specialty businesses are growing faster.
Those yield over 10%.
So I think our business mix strategy and the ability to lower funding costs are helping offset some of these asset pressures we're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
Then on the expense side can you talk about the sustainability of the first quarter comp expense levels? Saw a pretty good decline and that number came in well below where I was expecting.
So I just want to get some feel around is that level sustainable going through the rest of the year? John I think it I would say generally it is.
You do get some volatility based on volumes.
So obviously if we had a bumper production in mortgage it's -- say rates really drop and mortgage volume really jumped up you'd have personnel expense going up because of more incentive comp but you'd make more money.
So just kind of leaving that aside for the moment if you kind of stabilize that factor then I think you would see kind of a continuation of that trend.
And to be honest we will be very conservative in terms of managing FTEs.
We have a number of initiatives in place that are putting downward pressure on FTEs and obviously that drives personnel costs.
And so we're taking this economic environment very seriously.
We're not going to wait till several quarters to see what it's going to do.
We're ahead of the curve.
We already have major initiatives under way.
I'm not going to come out like a lot of people do with these grand programs and grand numbers and all.
We'd rather just like to prove to you what we can do and then we'll -- and then we'll let you comment about it.
But I would say I have a lot of confidence in that trend.
One other thing I would just add to that is we focus on positive operating leverage.
And if you look out into the next quarter we will grow revenues and our expenses will probably be flat to down.
So we will definitely have positive operating next quarter and for the year.
We'll take our next question from Ryan Nash with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I have a question for Kelly.
Just given how competitive the lending environment right -- is right now you have a few niche businesses in specialty lending that I think many of your competitors don't.
I noticed in your 2013 initiatives you didn't highlight this as a focus.
So just given where we are in the cycle for credit are you considering getting more aggressive in those businesses at all just given where the risk-adjusted returns are at this point? Well that's a good pickup Ryan.
I was trying to highlight some of them and didn't particularly point that out.
But I would say that it is a continuing very strong focus for us.
Nothing is diminished in terms of our interest in that.
In fact every one of these businesses are getting better.
Many are continuing to expand more fully their national footprint.
And so yes we will absolutely continue that and I would easily put that as one of those major initiatives.
I was just trying to be relatively brief on time.
But it's a -- they're great.
You see the contribution they make to us in terms of our total revenue mix.
And to be honest with you they are relatively economic independent.
In other words they don't correlate directly with economic variables like regular spread lending does in the normal community bank.
So insightful question and the answer is yes we'll be very aggressive with them.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And Daryl I know you gave good color on the margin.
In terms of the core margin you talked about it stabilizing in the mid-3 30s.
Is that still the way that you're thinking about it as we look out to the rest of '13 and into 2014? Yes that's correct Ryan.
I would say from what we see now the trajectory we're probably in the mid-3 30s over the next year or 2.
We'll go to our next question from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can give us some color on the Insurance business and what's the core organic growth rate that you're seeing because Crump hasn't fully annualized yet? And then how do you expect that business to grow going forward given your comments that the market seems to still be hardening? Right.
Core organic revenue as Kelly said is running about 5.5%.
We think the industry is in the 4.5% kind of range.
Obviously we did not own Crump first quarter last year.
But had we it would have added about 2 percentage points to our growth rate.
So nice upside leverage we believe.
You really have not had the expense reductions kick in.
They begin kick in in the second quarter this year.
We got about 50% more in expense reduction than we had initially modeled which is positive.
We also as Kelly pointed out had a real upside we think in a couple areas.
One is in the institutional businesses he commented on.
The way that business works we brought over several large clients and you ramp up in the expense first because you're really having to hire people to outsource and you get the benefit of the revenue later.
So we still have that to look forward to as well as the cross-sell of the life insurance business inside BB&amp;T through our P&amp;C clients through our broker-dealer and through our Wealth division.
We're actually adding about 50 to 60 life insurance reps embedded within our Wealth group to help drive that.
So the life insurance as Kelly pointed out is a real real upside leverage.
The core P&amp;C business I will tell you is Daryl alluded in his comments we've really seen it come back initially in wholesale.
We're seeing margins there pre-intangibles in the 20% range which 1 year or 2 ago would have been below 15%.
We're seeing the retail business bounce back probably in the mid-teens; we think with upside at the 20% over the next several years.
And the last item I'll just leave for you is historically you see really strong rebounds for about 2 years then it goes away.
Because of the staying power of this downturn what you see now is you see lesser upsides.
So instead of 15% upside you're seeing a 5%.
We think it's going to be here for several years.
So we think potentially 2 to 4 years we could see -- or at least 2 to 3 years we could have upside here.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And my second question just Kelly you talked about the comp side of controlling expenses and we just heard a little bit on the insurance side.
But I was wondering if you can also just kind of give us a little more color on what opportunities do you have inside the rest of the firm aside from staff and compensation to continue to just be smarter and tighter on noncomp expense? Yes so Ken the -- a lot of this remember now is going to be flowing through in terms of credit cost.
You saw the first leg of that in the first quarter.
That has a good way to go.
And that is -- I mean nothing's guaranteed but that's pretty doggone assured because I mean it's very directly correlated with NPAs and NPAs come down legal cost comes down and real estate carrying cost comes down and appraisal write-downs comes down.
And so all that -- so the credit cost coming down is a biggie.
In terms of the other parts of the business Ricky's doing a good job of looking at rationalizing our branch structure.
He has a number of branches that will be kind of methodically closing as we go along during this process.
We are constantly looking at expense optimization with regard to procurement.
So we constantly see opportunities to reduce cost in contract renewals.
And then the other which is -- the pennies and the dimes that most people don't pay much attention to but I pay a lot of attention to the small things because they add up.
So we have a bottoms-up from our people effort to get them to focus on the small things.
If you got 2 subscriptions of a newspaper maybe cut it to 1.
If you -- be sure when you walk out of rooms you cut the lights off.
I mean just a lot of little stuff adds up.
But the biggest are going to be HR credit and then the miscellaneous that relates to running the general bank.
Our next question will be taken from Erika Penala with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to put together all the answers responses you had on the expense question to make sure that we're taking away the right thing.
So you mentioned a lot of positive color in terms of being able to control the number.
At the same time you mentioned reinvesting in mortgage expansion and in expanding in Texas.
So is the main takeaway here that despite that you can keep the total expense level close to this $1.4 billion number that we saw in the first quarter for the balance of the year? Yes Erika I think what -- yes yes it's a good question.
I think what you're seeing for us is we are not on a linear "let's go figure out how to cut cost." The idea of less is better we don't believe in that.
I mean that's a short-run strategy.
What we believe in is reinvestment.
So generally what you're seeing is we're cutting in some areas to reinvest in other areas.
We think you get a boomerang effect there.
You cut the cost and you redeploy it into higher-earning assets.
Having said that though we still think that we will see total expenses flat to down because -- now we could -- if we didn't reinvest in these revenue opportunities we could put them way down to be honest.
But we're not going to do that.
It's a long-term business.
We're going to protect the long-term franchise and we want you to be happy with us 2 years from now as well as this quarter.
So it will be an intellectually driven strategy of reducing costs in terms of cutting out things that we do and doing things better and reinvesting in areas that have higher returns.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And my follow-up question is on the resubmission process.
Does the resubmission preclude you for example if there was an interesting deal where the books are out during those 75 days that the Fed is reviewing your resubmission? Would you be allowed to put in a bid? Or do you have to wait until the Fed gives you a non-objection in your total capital plan? No.
We -- as we understand it you're not precluded from doing a deal but you would have to go to the next level.
Typically if your plan is approved you have what's called an expedited approval process which is kind of at the regional level if it's consistent with your capital plan.
If you have -- if your capital plan is not approved and then you have a deal it has to go through a more rigorous process meaning it has to go to Washington.
So it doesn't mean you can't do it.
It just means you got to go through more process.
Our next question will be from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just trying to go to the efficiency question.
At the beginning of the comments prepared remarks you were discussing that this is just the beginning and that you have a lot of opportunities to rethink how you are running the business.
And I guess I'm just wondering is that endgame a -- an actual improvement? I mean you're looking for positive operating leverage so I think it would be an improvement in the expense ratio.
But what kind of legs do you think it has? How many -- what kind of target expense ratio can you tell us that you're kind of managing towards? Well Betsy as you know that's -- it's always challenging to know exactly how these things will work out the way we do it because we don't start from a top-down I don't dictate "We're going to cut x percentage." I just don't think that's the way to run the business.
We start out with a challenge to our people to reconceptualize and restructure their business.
I will just say to you without -- I'm not going to discuss the specific initiatives.
It wouldn't be fair to parts of the organization that might be involved in that.
But we are way down the road in terms of developing strategies to execute on this enhanced focus on improving operating leverage.
And so I think that we will execute.
I'm very very confident of that.
And it's not a 2- or 3-year out process.
It's relatively near term.
And so long term our stated target is low 50s on operating efficiency ratio.
In the near term it would hover around mid-50s and -- but over 2 or 3 years I expect to get to low 50s.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then the follow-up is on the new locations that you have opened up offices in.
You mentioned San Fran Chicago Cincinnati.
I guess part one of the question is is there more to come there? And then the second thing is how are you dealing with the credit extension that you're doing in those markets? Is there an overlay for being in a new market? How does it correspond with what you're doing in markets where you've been for quite some time? And are you holding on to a higher standard with regard to either pricing or credit? I ask the question just because people sometimes get a little nervous about moving into new markets outside of footprint and I realize you're lending within that footprint but it is outside of your historic footprint.
Betsy this is Chris.
I'll answer your expansion question and I'll let Clarke deal with the credit side of it.
In terms of what we have done this year we've -- as Kelly commented we've added a couple offices a couple general bankers -- generalist bankers in Chicago and Dallas.
We have added the ag vertical.
And so we have someone in Southern California and also in Chicago now.
We're already beginning to book credits there.
And so we think we've got about -- we'd be happy if we could add about 8 to 10 more bankers this year very methodically which would give us something on the order of 12 to 14 or so this year.
And I can tell you the underwriting is very much in check but I'll let Clarke deal with that.
Yes thanks Chris.
Betsy as a risk officer we had that conversation along with Chris and Ricky and the team and I feel very good about it.
Most of these bankers are originating within our 8 industry verticals that we have specialization around both on the sourcing and underwriting side.
So we're very careful about bringing in bankers that number one understand those businesses and industries.
We typically know the companies through our research coverage and so it's not just a speculative approach.
And then we bring those bankers in with some heavy training into our underwriting standards and culture and then we have specialized underwriters in our central office that approve all the credits.
I actually approve most of them frankly because they're going to be the larger middle markets.
So very very disciplined there.
So it does not look different than our long-term credit standards as Kelly mentioned earlier.
And Betsy I would just add we -- you and I have been around long enough -- I've been around longer than you but you've been around long enough to know that obviously the [indiscernible] strategies the continental strategies we all know what the tombstones are on all of that and clearly we are not going down that road.
But if you think about it the only difference between a large corporate credit and [indiscernible] North Carolina and Chicago is do you apply the same analytical evaluation and do you have people on the street talking to the people developing a relationship looking the treasurer eye to eye.
I mean that's the difference.
These other companies got in trouble because first of all they started buying loans they didn't know what they were -- types of loans where they didn't know what they were doing.
They were buying them on a market they didn't even see the clients and so it was just a big mess.
But this is nothing more than our exact same strategy in a different location and -- but because it is different -- to your point it is getting enhanced scrutiny.
Clarke as he said approves most of them.
Frankly I look at several of them that come in through our loan policy committee not that I'm into loan approvals every day but I look at several of these just to be sure that we're doing exactly what we said we were going to do.
And our next question will come from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a question on the Dealer Financial Services area.
You guys are obviously been in the business for some time.
We've been hearing stories about underwriting trends weakening in indirect auto.
Have you guys seen that? And can you also comment on the operating margin coming down from first quarter '12 from about 61% to 39%? Gerard this is Clarke Starnes.
We have been in the retail sales finance business for many many years.
In fact that was a core foundational business at BB&amp;T and our predecessor bank.
So we're very very good at it.
We're specialists.
So we do see what you are describing.
Many new entrants to the markets or people getting in and out and coming back and competing on aggressive terms and obviously spreads.
So the spreads are very very tight right now.
So that's a negative for us.
We're not deviating from our underwriting but we see things like extended terms higher advance rates all those types of things type of mistakes that we've seen in past cycles.
So we are watching that and we're being very disciplined.
I think Daryl on regarding the margin it's primarily the Dealer Financial Services includes our nonprime auto as well.
And the difference in the operating margin is the provisioned expense going to more of a normalized level in that business.
So we had outsized margins over the last year or so.
So we're still very healthy but that's the primary contributor.
That's right.
LLC Research Division</strong> The second question has to do with the foreclosure expenses.
Obviously it fell very nicely in the quarter.
Can you give us some color on with the housing market in recovery and housing prices rising how is that affecting your OREO balances? Is it easier to liquidate these portfolios? And are you liquidating them at better prices than 6 months ago? The answer to all of that is yes.
We are seeing improvement particularly on residential housing.
So just about any time we get in a resi property we're able to move that out very quickly with minimal marks and again where we've seen the biggest hit to that expense item in the past are the nonresidential properties that sit a while and we have to go through a revaluation process.
So the good news there is if you look at our inventory mix that is way down.
So most of what we're getting in now are resi properties.
We're able to move those out at much lower marks and keep that expense level down.
Our next question is from Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of bigger picture questions but let me follow up on the Dealer Finance subject with a somewhat different question.
There's been a whole lot of regulatory focus on this business in the last few months.
And I guess I'm just curious given all of the increased pressure on this business does that potentially hurt the returns in this business going forward? Or in fact given some of the comments that you just made about the competition being so aggressive does this in fact improve the operating environment for that business? Matt this is Clarke again.
I think over the long term we would view it as a net positive in that there will be clear guidelines and rules of engagement.
There's a lot of entrants in there a lot of different pricing schemes with the dealers.
So the dealers have enormous options to move the paper around based upon the existing environment.
The CFPB put out new guidance recently as you all saw.
We know more clarity is coming around that.
We think it will look like much less dealer discretion over pricing of the paper more standardization there.
And I think that plays well for a very efficient long-term player like BB&amp;T.
I think it could be an advantage for us and it will push out some of the folks that were in it for the short run.
LLC Research Division</strong> Does it reduce returns in the very near term however? I think there's some risk of that and there's risk of some short-term volume disruption until the final guidance comes out because obviously some people will move based on what's known today and it'll take a while to settle out.
So I think the near-term effect could be on volumes not as clear on price at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then if I can ask a follow-up to Kelly.
Kelly you've made some pointed comments about the higher cost of regulation.
And I guess I'm just curious given what appears to be an even greater focus on some of the internal regulatory issues that many banks face have you gotten -- have you sensed that there's a greater level of willingness from mid-sized players to think about selling? Or has that dialogue been relatively steady? Matt I think the dialogue to this point has been relatively steady.
Frankly I think where everybody is still is trying to kind of figure out what the end state is going to be.
Clearly I would say based on conversation with folks everybody is feeling it.
And obviously the smaller you are the more difficult it is to your point.
I don't sense today that people have -- it's pushed them over the dam.
But I think over time it's a really big issue for smaller institutions because as I've said for many years I still believe economies of scale are going to be a major driver in this business notwithstanding the fact that the regulators tend to want to put some kind of a cap and they think big is bad and all that.
But certainly in the space we're in I think that -- we feel like we need to have more size today.
And so that would imply institutions substantially smaller than us today in my view have a tough row to hoe going forward.
We'll take our next question from Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering about the seasonal impacts.
There's a couple of lines with the expense improvements.
There's even some impacts there from seasonality and the fee income you were like for instance talking about insurance that was relatively flat which was masked how good that performance was because of seasonality.
The last 2 years your EPS has actually gone up more than $0.10 from first to second quarter.
I just didn't know if you could kind of in general kind of quantify what you think that seasonal uptick is as we move into 2Q? [indiscernible] the insurance.
Yes this is Chris and I'll comment on insurance and maybe Daryl can comment on the kind of for the overall.
Insurance we're really pleased.
Typically -- you're exactly right.
Typically first quarter is a decline in the Insurance business which you saw this time from fourth to first is actually somewhat flat slightly up.
And for second quarter it's typically -- it used to be fourth quarter was our best revenue quarter.
As you go forward it's really turning to more of a second quarter being our best quarter because renewals tend to occur in June.
So you could see us up from first to second up about 10% or so.
We think that is very doable and highly probable.
I'll let Daryl maybe deal with the EPS question.
Yes on the other categories Marty I think there is some positive seasonality as you look at service charges and net interest income will be -- and you have more days there.
So I think we definitely believe we're going to have much higher revenue second versus first.
And with Kelly's discussion on expenses we should have a pretty nice improvement net overall.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then my second question Daryl was you have been kind of moving that asset sensitivity graph you have on that net interest margin page.
You've been kind of neutralizing some of that.
This quarter it moved in the other direction.
Was that with as you saw some changes in some increased DDA growth and some other kind of assumptions that you made there with cash flows? Do you think that you'd be eating back into that as you move forward hoping to mitigate some of the margin compression going forward? We aren't managing to change it very much right now.
I mean our growth in DDA is really the main driver for the increase in sensitivity.
We still continue to put on a little bit more fixed versus variable.
So if you go back a couple of years ago we were 50-50 between fixed and variable rate loans.
Now we're 53% fixed versus 47%.
So there's a little bit of drift with the lower rates but the growth that we're having in DDA and our manage rate deposits is more than offsetting that right now.
That's all the time we have for questions.
Okay.
Thank you Tiffany.
And thanks.
We do have several still in the queue so I apologize that we've run out of time.
Kelly would you have any closing remarks? Thanks everybody for joining our call.
We appreciate it.
Hope you have a great day.
That concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the BB&amp;T Corporation Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call on July 18 2013.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Alan Greer with Investor Relations for BB&amp;T Corporation.
Thank you.
You may begin sir.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Thanks to all of our listeners for joining us today.
We have with us today Kelly King our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Daryl Bible our Chief Financial Officer who will review the results for the second quarter as well as provide a look ahead.
We also have other members of our Executive Management team who are with us today to participate in the Q&amp;A session: Chris Henson our Chief Operating Officer; Ricky Brown the President of Community Banking; and Clarke Starnes our Chief Risk Officer.
We will be referencing a slide presentation during our remarks today.
A copy of the presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental financial information are available on the BB&amp;T website.
Before we begin let me remind you that BB&amp;T does not provide public earnings predictions or forecasts.
However there may be statements made during the course of this call that express management's intent beliefs or expectations.
BB&amp;T's actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the forward-looking statement warnings in our presentation and our SEC filings.
Our presentation also includes certain non-GAAP disclosures.
Please refer to Page 2 and the appendix of our presentation for the appropriate reconciliations to GAAP.
And now I'll turn it over to Kelly.
Thank you Alan and good morning everybody and thanks very much for joining our call.
So I'd say overall it was a very solid quarter especially given the kind of sluggish economy we have.
Basically frankly everything looks good except expenses.
There was some noise there which we'll explain to you.
But fundamentally the high level was driven by some non-run rate issues and we'll give you some color on that.
We did have record net income of $547 million which was up $37 million or 7.3% versus second quarter of last year.
Diluted EPS was $0.77 up 6.9%.
Revenue was $2.5 billion up 1.3% versus second quarter of '12 and 6.2% annualized versus first quarter of this year.
That was driven by record insurance investment banking and brokerage and trust investment advisory revenues.
Fee income ratio increased to a very strong 44.6% versus 42.4% so we feel really really good about the continued positive progress in that.
In the Lending area average loans helped investment increase 3.8% versus first quarter.
That was on the high end of our guidance range so we felt good about that.
That was including certain areas.
Sales Finance was up about 35% versus first quarter.
C&amp;I was up strong for the market 4.7%.
Other lending subsidiaries grew 16.8%.
Obviously as we've mentioned there's some seasonal positive influence with regard to that.
Direct retail lending is coming back it was up 4.6%.
And some of that was offset by lower mortgage and ADC runoff.
In the deposit area deposits did decrease 1.4% which is kind of our plan as we continue to manage our margin and reduce certain CD categories.
Non-interest-bearing deposits increased a very strong 13.2% which continues to be a really good robust performance in that area.
We continued to improve our deposit mix as we run down the CDs and so our total costs declined to 32 basis points consistent with the general guidance we've given you.
Our credit improvement is a really big story for us this quarter.
Charge-offs declined to 0.75% frankly more than we had expected so we're very pleased about that.
The lowest level in 5 years.
NPA decreased another $137 million or 9.7% lowest level in 5 years.
Allowance coverage ratio improved to 1.55x NPLs from 1.43x at the first quarter.
In the expense area we were up materially on our annualized run rate versus the first quarter but much of this was $27 million of merger and restructuring charges that we took following our community bank reorganization.
We did have other expense areas related to higher production-related personnel cost.
Our volumes were up so we get some clear correlated increase in cost there.
And we had a meaningful amount of expenses related to systems and process-related enhancements.
These expenses included $35 million in systems and process-related cost composed of temporary consulting and similar costs which are not a part of our long-term run rate.
We are doing exactly what we have said to you over the last 1.5 years and that is we are in the process of reconceptualizing and looking at every part of our business.
I know it may seem like that isn't consistent with an increase in expenses but again we want you to understand these are non-run rate expenses.
To give you a perspective on that in our community bank Ricky Brown did a really good job of reorganizing our regions which we believe make us more efficient and at the same time more effective.
And the numbers on that gives you a good perspective on the kinds of things we're doing.
So the onetime charges related to that community bank reorganization was $16 million and the run rate savings on that is $26 million so a substantial run rate payback versus the onetime charge.
So we will continue to report to you from time to time those types of changes as we put them into effect.
As I've said before I'm not going to announce some big robust plan like is often done but we will continue to report to you what's happening along the way as it's materializing.
If you'll turn to Slide 4 much better loan growth than last quarter which we're very pleased about.
C&amp;I was up 4.7% retail 4.6%.
Sales Finance is very strong.
Some seasonality there but really really moving market share there up 34.9%.
Other Lending Subsidiaries were up 16.8% so if you minus out the negative impact of covered loans that gets us to the positive 3.8% growth.
In the Other Lending Subsidiary areas very strong results in our Sheffield small ticket finance area.
It was up 41%.
AFCO/CAFO which we've called [ph] our insurance premium finance business always has a big seasonal kick here and it was up 22.7%.
We were pleased that end of period loans held for investment were approximately $1.5 billion higher than the second quarter average and it was our highest production quarter ever.
Now remember that a lot of the production is mortgage and we sell most of our mortgage but still it produces revenue so it's really really good.
So we expect for the third quarter loans to grow in the 2% to 4% range.
It's still frankly difficult to project lending volumes in this kind of market but what we do have some visibility on that we expect other demand to remain strong growing double-digit in the third.
Other Lending Subsidiaries will also be double-digit in the third we believe.
Commercial loans and Direct Retails will be kind of similar to what we saw in the second quarter.
On the other hand mortgage will be likely down and that'll have some impact with regard to our loan growth for next quarter.
If you turn to Slide 5 another great quarter for deposits as we improved our deposit mix and cost.
As I've said DDA was up 13.2%.
We allowed CDs to run down.
These are non-client relationship-sensitive CDs they are more price-sensitive CDs so we're not concerned about that from a long-term franchise point of view.
We did grow net new retail accounts in the second quarter which is always something we look at.
Deposit cost as I indicated came down to 32 so we're heading towards what we've said which is pushing slightly below 30 by the end of the year.
So we expect to have strong growth in non-interest-bearing deposits in the third quarter and with probably similar activity with regard to the CD area.
If you look with me on Slide 6 I just want to give you a little update on some of our revenue initiatives.
Recall that we said in the beginning of the year that we felt this was going to be a sluggish growth economy that's proving to be true.
We thought that there were going to be upward pressure in certain cost areas including technological and regulatory which has proven to be true.
And so we decided that we needed to focus very seriously on revenue initiatives and we've been doing that.
So just a quick update.
Continuing to have excellent results in expanding our Corporate Banking national market.
I want to be very clear to everybody we have -- we do have a national Corporate Banking strategy now.
So while our Community Banking is basically mid-Atlantic Southeast swinging around the Texas strategy we're very national in many other categories certainly including Corporate Banking.
We did add Corporate Banking teams in some of the larger markets in the country including Dallas Chicago Cincinnati San Francisco.
To give you a perspective common quarter loan growth in the Corporate Banking area is at 31% so it's working.
Continued to invest in the wealth management area and making targeted investments in certain key markets.
We opened a Dallas wealth management office.
We've added multiple invest -- advisors in Texas Florida and North Carolina.
Added other offices in some of our key states like North Carolina South Carolina and Virginia.
And we did open new broker dealer offices in Maryland and Florida so nice investment there.
Wealth income is up 19% and outstanding loans are up 20% versus common quarter so that's working well.
Continued to execute on our Crump life insurance opportunities real pleased with the way the Institutional sales effort is going.
For example Crump added a major account MetLife in the second quarter which is the largest new client in Crump's history and obviously that's a major major account.
We're very appreciative of that partnership.
But it just gives you an example of the opportunity there quarterly revenue growth in the Crump life area is up 11% versus common quarter so that's working.
In the mortgage area we're continuing to expand our correspondent lending network.
Obviously organic mortgage volumes are under pressure because of refis net purchases are doing really well.
So we're looking for other ways to continue to mitigate that.
So year-to-date production was up 14% over last year.
We do expect production to fall some this next couple of quarters because of rates mostly because of refis.
Margins will be under some slight pressure there.
So by focusing on our correspondent delivery strategy in particular our mandatory delivery expansion that will offset meaningfully some of those negative impacts.
In the retail mortgage lending area we continue to expand in some of our newer markets like Texas Florida Alabama.
And so our mortgage area while under pressure because of rates is doing relatively very well.
I feel really good about what's going on in Texas Rick and his team are doing a great job down there.
Recall that we said we would execute on 30 new commercial branches this year.
We've already opened 25 of those the other 5 will open very soon.
We are seeing nice increase for example checking deposits in Texas are up 45%.
Loans are up 45% compared to second quarter of last year.
Revenue is up 38%.
And on a very current perspective business credit pipeline is up 132% versus January.
So obviously we're starting from a small base but Texas is a really big opportunity for us.
We love Texas and it's got a huge amount of opportunity for us.
We also continued to execute on our revenue opportunities into legacy Colonial markets.
Just to give you a perspective common quarter loan growth in Texas Alabama and Florida which is primarily where we picked up Colonial presence is up 27% and revenues are up 9% compared to common quarter.
We continued to expand our wholesale Sales Finance area.
Committed lines are up 61% on a linked-quarter basis to approximately $850 million Outstandings were up 75%.
So you could see that all of these 2013 initiatives are working and will be somewhat uneven as we go forward but the general trajectory of all those initiatives is very very positive and offsetting to the downward pressure from a sluggish economy and margin pressure.
So let me turn now to Daryl to give you some more color with regard to a number of these areas.
Daryl? Yes.
Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
I'm going to talk about credit quality net interest margin fee income noninterest expense capital and segment reporting.
Continuing on Slide 7.
Our improvement in credit metrics really accelerated versus last quarter.
These are our best credit numbers in 5 years.
Charge-offs declined to 75 basis points during the second quarter.
That's down from 98 basis points last quarter.
The improvement was driven by a significant drop in commercial inflows.
This equates to a 22% drop in loan losses during the quarter.
We have reached the top end of our normal charge-off range of 55 to 75 basis points and we are ahead of our projections from last quarter.
The primary drivers for the improved charge-offs were old vintage loans have mostly run their course improvement in recoveries and improvement in real estate values.
Going forward we expect modest steady improvement in net charge-offs.
Nonperforming assets declined 10% during the second quarter and are down 33% since last year.
Commercial nonperforming loans decreased 14% versus last quarter.
We expect modest improvement in both nonperforming loans and nonperforming assets during the third quarter.
Turning to Slide 8.
You can see a 28% drop in commercial nonperforming asset inflows that led to the overall credit improvement this quarter.
While delinquencies can fluctuate due to seasonality the 30 to 89 and 90 days past due both improved this quarter.
The allowance to nonperforming loans increased from 1.43x to 1.55x reflecting a continued strong coverage.
We had $36 million in reserve release this quarter.
Excluding the impact of covered charge-offs and the recovery in the covered provision this reserve release is similar to most recent periods.
Continuing on Slide 9.
Net interest margin came in at 3.70% down 6 basis points from last quarter and somewhat better than our initial guidance.
Core margin fell 3 basis points to 3.40%.
The decrease was the result in several factors: the runoff of our covered assets lower yields on earning assets and tighter credit spreads on retail production.
These were offset by a decrease in interest-bearing deposit cost and mix changes.
I'd like to point out that the steeper yield curve is positive for us.
Obviously this will reduce pressure on our core margin over time.
Looking at the second quarter we expect to be down 5 to 10 basis points.
We anticipate third quarter core margin to decline modestly due to tighter credit spreads resulting from competition.
As you can see in the lower graph we are asset-sensitive and are positioned for rising rates.
Turning to Slide 10.
Our fee income ratio in the second quarter increased to 44.6% compared to 42.9% in the first quarter and up from 42.4% from second quarter last year.
This is one of our highest fee income ratios in recent history.
We had record results in insurance investment banking and brokerage and trust and investment advisory services.
Insurance produced record revenue up 67% from first quarter driven by firming market conditions and a $13 million premium refund.
Mortgage Banking produced record originations in the second quarter.
Mortgage Banking income declined due to lower gain on sale margins driven by lower spreads in the retail channel.
Investment banking and brokerage income increased due to strong commission income in BB&amp;T securities and improved Investment Services income.
FDIC loss share was up mostly due to a $29 million swing in the provision for covered loans.
Looking at Slide 11.
Total noninterest expense was up $82 million linked-quarter.
This was driven by 2 things: first $27 million in restructuring and merger-related costs; second there was also $35 million in systems and special project costs.
As these expenses subside over the next several quarters so will total noninterest expense.
Personnel expense increased versus first quarter due mainly to higher production-related incentives and commissions partially offset by lower Social Security and unemployment costs.
As you know we recently announced the restructuring of our Community Bank where we trimmed back from 37 regions to 23.
We will also be closing about 40 branches.
With this decrease in personnel costs we expect to see lower expenses for the next couple of quarters.
FTEs were down slightly compared with last quarter.
Loan-related expense increased $5 million compared to first quarter due to higher pre-foreclosure expenses and mortgage repurchase expense.
Foreclosure costs continued to decline down $6 million.
Professional services increased $11 million driven by systems and special project costs.
We expect these costs to decline over the next few quarters.
Merger-related and restructuring charges increased $22 million primarily due to the Community Bank reorganization I mentioned earlier.
The good news is we expect to offset that with a similar amount of annual cost savings going forward.
Other expenses increased $24 million due to higher project-related expenses and operating charge-offs.
Despite the increase in this expense this quarter we continue to focus on positive operating leverage which will overtime drive the efficiency ratio down.
Finally the effective tax rate for the quarter was 27.7%.
We expect a similar rate for the third quarter.
Turning to Slide 12.
Capital levels were up from last quarter with Tier 1 common at 9.4%.
Under the final [ph] rules our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common is about 9%.
We successfully issued preferred stock in the second quarter and we also synced up our preferred stock dividend schedule.
This resulted in a subdividend payment in the second quarter.
We expect the Board to authorize next week a full preferred dividend payment for next quarter of approximately $37 million.
We completed our CCAR resubmission on June 11.
As Kelly mentioned earlier this quarter we have taken a very conservative approach to our resubmission in terms of capital deployment for the rest of 2013.
As a reminder we increased our dividend 15% in the first quarter.
And when we resubmitted the final capital rules had not been announced and at that time the industry expected higher capital requirements.
Now here are a few highlights from our segments.
Turning to Slide 13.
Community Bank net income totaled $209 million showing strong growth versus common quarter and down from a very good first quarter.
Average dealer floor plan loans grew $133 million or 116% compared to -- with first quarter.
Turning to Slide 14.
Residential Mortgage net income was down $25 million linked-quarter and up modestly compared to second quarter last year.
Increased interest rates and changes in channel mix pressured gain on sale margins.
They came in at 1.31% down 34 basis points from last quarter.
We had record loan production of $9.3 billion up 7% versus last quarter.
Purchase mortgages made up 44% of production versus 32% last quarter.
Looking at Dealer Financial Services on Slide 15.
You will see net income totaled $59 million.
That's up $19 million off a strong first quarter and down slightly compared to a common quarter.
We continue to see strong demand and had record loan production in both recreational and retail auto lending.
On Slide 16 you will see Specialized Lending experienced a solid quarter with net income of $68 million.
Average loans grew 9% versus second quarter last year with the strongest performance in Sheffield Commercial Finance and Premium Finance businesses.
Moving on to Slide 17.
Insurance Services generated $66 million in net income up significantly compared to linked-quarter and flat compared to common quarter.
Wholesale revenues increased 11% and retail increased 5%.
We continue to focus on business opportunities presented by our acquisition of Crump Insurance through Institutional sales and cross-selling with our Wealth team.
Turning to Slide 18.
Financial Services generated $71 million in net income mostly driven by Corporate and Wealth.
These businesses had loan growth of 31% and 20% respectively.
And with that let me turn it back over to Kelly for closing remarks and Q&amp;A.
Thank you Daryl.
So as you can see it was a very solid quarter relative to the economy.
We think most all parts of the business did really well.
Credit was a really big story.
Expenses were noisy but the real trends are very positive so we're very optimistic about our relative performance going forward and we look forward to entertaining your questions.
Alan? Okay.
Thank you Kelly.
We will now ask the operator to come back on the line and explain how the Q&amp;A session operates.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Paul Miller with FBR.
Research Division</strong> On the insurance line item which you guys did very -- it was very strong this quarter is there seasonality in that? How should we model that going forward? Yes Paul this is Chris Henson.
There clearly is going from first to second.
In fact it's our largest seasonality hit of the year.
Second quarter is typically our strongest and third quarter is typically our weakest.
So we -- I think we estimated last time we'd be up in the 15% range.
We actually beat that.
Third quarter you could see a drop off to 17% 18% or so.
Research Division</strong> And then real quick on a follow-up.
On your allowance for loan losses you released some revisions which of course that's understandable given the improvement in credit.
But how far down do you think you can take your allowance for loan losses to total loans or do you hit targeted number? Paul this is Clarke Starnes.
Certainly we think as we're reaching normalized level of credit cost on the charge-off side and the NPAs are normalizing we would expect the allowance releases to start subsiding.
So while it's not clear exactly what a floor might be certainly have to look at our models and make sure we feel good about the incurred loss in the portfolio.
I would just -- I wouldn't expect continued sustained releases as we move forward and look more toward flattening out as we reach the normalized levels on the credit cost.
And we'll go next to Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on the margin.
Daryl you mentioned that a steeper yield curve will be beneficial to BB&amp;T eventually and I noticed that your agency MBS book the yields were up 5 basis points quarter-over-quarter.
And at 1.97% it seems to be below some of the reinvestment rates that we've heard from other banks.
I guess as we think through your margin guidance of 5 to 10 basis points could you give us a sense of how you're thinking about your reinvestment strategy in your bond book within that guidance? Yes Erika.
If you look at the securities that we've been purchasing for the last couple of years if you take that same mix of securities we're up about 60 basis points.
I'd say the average purchases used to be around 1.60%.
At same mix of securities it's around 2.20% now as we do our new investments.
So we definitely are benefiting from the higher yield curve.
The other thing that you notice is that increase in yields on agencies.
A lot of that is driven by as rates go up prepayments slow down.
As prepayments slow down the amortization of your premiums also slow but you kind of boost the yields of those portfolios.
So if you have bonded premiums with slower prepayments you have actually an uptick in some of the yields.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And my follow-up question is on the expense line.
I appreciate the color on total expenses but if we think about -- I think I heard you mention $62 million in non-run rate expenses in this quarter which gets to me about $1.4 billion in core expenses.
How quickly can that $62 million run off over the next few quarters? And what should we expect for the core run rate? Erika this is Kelly.
I think the non-run rate expenses will be over the next 2 3 quarters.
Some of that is in new systems that we are initiating.
For example we're putting up a new GL system.
We're in the very early stages of putting up a new commercial loan front-end system.
So as you know you incur a lot of upfront expenses with regard to that and so I expect that will begin to subside over the next few quarters.
We'll continue to do the reconceptualization focuses that will be mitigating other increases in expenses that are more permanent in nature like we are seeing some permanent increases in expenses in technology -- technological and regulatory area.
So we're going to continue to push toward focusing on the efficiency [ph] ratio which I think is the best way to kind of think about it.
Obviously there's upward pressure on it now.
We still think over the long term we can end up in the low 50s in the next year or 2 probably hovering in the mid-50s is going to probably be where it's at.
So it's a challenge for us all long term right now but the encouraging thing to me is these reconceptualization approaches are really working.
We'll go next to Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just looking out beyond the third quarter on the net interest margin any thoughts on where it goes from there? And maybe I missed it but the purchase accounting accretion schedule any meaningful changes to that as we think out next year and beyond? Yes Matt.
So I think as you forecast out from the covered assets if you recall our commercial covered asset portfolio for the most part will be pretty much off the books by third quarter of '14.
So it won't all be gone by then because you still have the mortgage portfolio that lasts for several years after that.
But I think we're pretty much tracking to what we projected.
I'd say your interest income is falling around $10 million give or take every quarter as that kind of progresses over the next several quarters.
Your fee income line which is the offset is also falling at about the same amount.
This quarter we did have a pickup in reversal on the provision.
That's really just a onetimer when that happens we really don't forecast that.
But overall margins the core margin and the GAAP margin should be close to in sync as we get towards the end of '14.
Research Division</strong> And I guess just on the absolute level down 5 to 10 basis points going from 2Q to third quarter and then just the NIM beyond that just trending down or when does it stabilize? Core margin should stabilize.
I mean this steep of a yield curve if you really look at it a little over half of the loans and assets on the books are fixed rate.
So as we're repricing not just securities but as well repricing auto loans home equity loans some of our fixed commercial real estate loans they are repricing off the higher part of the curve now.
That takes time as that new volume comes in onto the balance sheet.
But over the next couple of quarters core margin should start to stabilize.
So I'd say in the 3.30s is kind of where I'd put core margin.
And then it's really just the covered portfolio running off.
We'll go next to Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Kelly just on the expense side again just trying to look further out as well.
This year you had talked about having GAAP expenses down a few percent.
That looks a little bit harder given the step up we saw this quarter even though a lot of the costs are of course related to these initiatives.
But I just wonder if you could take us a step a level higher and say "Are you still committed to having total expenses down this year?" And then any thoughts you might have about how that progression leads to next year just on a total expense base would be helpful.
Yes.
So I think as the rest of the year goes through we'll end up down.
Because you've got these mitigating factors but you have other factors that are coming down.
Remember our credit expenses are continuing to come down.
And we're starting to get some of the run rate savings of what we just already just put into effect because that happens fairly immediately.
So I think that projection still holds for the total of this year.
As we head into next year I really think it -- a lot of it depends on what happens to the economy and to volumes.
I mean obviously we have a certain level of fixed overhead expenses.
And to the extent that we can get some faster loan growth and revenue growth that will help push down relative expenses as we lever up the fixed expenses.
So I'm fairly optimistic about expense control as we head into next year.
It's a little early to make any kind of projections but I can tell you that our intents will be in terms of focus will be the same next year as it is this year.
This reconceptualization focuses will continue throughout the year.
And so while again there are certain expenses in the technological and the regulatory area that are very difficult to control there are many areas of the bank that still have a lever opportunity in terms of expense focus and we're absolutely focusing on all of those.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And my second question Daryl could you just update us on the purchase accounting deltas that you expect for the next couple of years? You've been giving us that update as far as the '13 to '14 and then the '14 to '15.
If you have those handy on the revenue side and then the FDIC expectations? Yes.
So for the rest of the year I would say on the margin side expect about a $10 million drop -- $10 million per quarter drop of interest income.
And as you get into '14 that would probably continue to maybe a $15 million to $20 million drop on a per quarter basis.
On the fee income on the FDIC offset similar amounts for '14 about $10 million per quarter.
And then that basically continues down about $10 million per quarter in '14.
So by the end of '14 the net benefit of the purchase will be only a couple of pennies maybe about $20 million benefit from where it is today.
We'll go next to Kevin Fitzsimmons with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Guys just on the preferred dividend is there -- I understand that the full quarterly amounts going to be $37 million going forward but is there going to -- have to be any kind of true up next quarter on top of that for this low pace of preferred dividend this quarter? No Kevin really what we did is we were really syncing up preferred dividend payments to equal what we have in the common.
We will sync up the common basically so that it will fit within the CCAR process.
So we declare our dividend in the first month of the quarter and pay them the third month of the quarter.
All we really did is we move the preferred dividend.
We had a short stub payment for the second quarter which is all we really had to declare in the second quarter.
You don't accrue a preferred you only accrue it after you declare it.
So what we declare this next week will be for the next full quarter but rather than the preferred shareholders getting paid a month or 2 later in the quarter now they're going to get paid earlier in the quarter so it's really just a timing difference.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Quick question for Kelly.
I know on capital distribution you guys made the point of taking a conservative approach over the balance of the year and I know there has been a lot of talk in media about the regulators' attitude toward large bank M&amp;A.
Kelly can you just give us what your latest outlook on that? Do you feel as a lot of people suggest that large bank M&amp;A is basically shut down in terms of the attitude for upfront regulators or do you think that is a viable option for you all in 2014 if you get opportunities? Yes I think it's a viable option in 2014.
I think today large bank and the medium-sized bank acquisitions basically shut down for 2 reasons.
One is I suspect the regulators if they were really honest would probably say they just assume not to see any acquisitions right now just because they want everybody kind of focused on settling down with all the new rules and regulations.
They haven't said that but I suspect that's kind of how they feel.
But I think more importantly from the acquirer's point of view I don't think many acquirers are interested in doing acquisitions today because there's so many uncertainties that need to be settled.
We just found out last week kind of what the preliminary indications are on capital.
We're still trying to settle out the focus on liquidity.
How some of these new rules and regulations going to work out what were the risks in terms of embedded issues in the acquired company that might trip you up in terms of regulatory concerns in this very tight focused market.
So I think the acquirers are very conservative today including ourselves in terms of being willing to do a deal.
And so I think whether you look at the regulatory side or the acquirer side it's probably the same answer.
As you head into '14 I think a lot of that smoothes out.
I think enough would have settled down so that regulators will feel more comfortable.
They're never going to be like really really easy in this environment but I think they'll be more comfortable.
And I certainly expect that we would be in a position to consider acquisitions as we head into '14 obviously it depends on the economics of it.
That's always going to drive it from our point of view but I wouldn't be surprised if you don't begin to see acquisitions as we head through '14.
We'll go next to Todd Hagerman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions just in terms of mortgage.
Kelly again the mortgage did pretty well this quarter relatively speaking.
But I'm just wondering can you talk a little bit more about the production mix? It was very good in the quarter in terms of the balance on the purchase side versus the refi side and kind of the drivers there and how you think about that going forward? So the refi volume will continue to moderate obviously.
It does ebb and flow.
Every time the tenure pops up and down we get some volume immediate impact but it will be steadily down.
But you're right the purchase percentage is very very satisfying now.
The overall roadside market frankly is good and improving.
Purchase activity is robust in most of our markets.
We continue to move market share in terms of our markets frankly because our mortgage business is extremely high quality.
We just haven't had any service quality issues.
For example J.D.
Power has just announced for the third year in a row we got number 1 in overall service quality while others are having challenges in that area.
We've been fortunate not to have those challenges.
And then frankly our correspondent business is really good and we continue to supplement our organic business with our correspondent business which is very high quality.
And so we think that the kind of relationship you see this quarter will kind of continue as we go forward over the next couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> That's terrific.
And then just in terms of a follow-up how -- what do you see -- with the change in terms of the channel originations where -- as you mentioned the correspondent what are you seeing now -- well I should step back a moment gain on sale you're seeing some pressure obviously definitely a factor of the origination channels.
But I'm just curious as you mentioned referred to the retail buildout kind of where you're seeing directionally that momentum as you kind of build out both the correspondent retail kind of how you see the deltas and the proportional gains? Yes Todd.
From a spread perspective the retail channel spreads dropped a little bit this past quarter as rates rose.
We expect the retail channel to continue to drop into this next quarter.
The actual correspondent spreads actually again did really well this past quarter.
If you look at our total production we had about 35% retail 65% correspondent was the mix.
I'd expect the spreads for our business to decline a little bit from the 1.31% that we had this quarter but not significantly just mainly what we have a little bit pressure on the retail channel side.
But as Kelly said these businesses are performing really well the strong markets a lot of volume.
We focused on really purchase activity several years ago.
44% of our volume was purchase activity.
That is a really huge percentage and we'll probably be north of 50% this quarter.
We'll go next to Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions.
One on getting back to the M&amp;A question and it's wrapped up in the reality that BB&amp;T is the largest bank now that is able to not have to account for AOCI in your regulatory capital and you've got a little bit of flexibility there with that.
So I'm just wondering how you think about balancing the potential opportunity for acquisition versus the fact that you're in a competitively strong position given your size and what that has allowed to do from a regulatory perspective? I mean when you sketch out you've got about 9 years of organic growth before you hit that $250 billion.
So Kelly just want to understand how you're thinking about using that to your advantage competitively versus the potential for an acquisition that will get you to that threshold.
Yes that's a good one Betsy.
So we're obviously already thinking about that.
It would put practically more pressure on the metrics of the acquisition because we are in a sweet spot and that is a competitive advantage and we're not going to throw that away by doing a relatively unprofitable acquisition that would trip us into a less competitive advantage.
So that's not to say we wouldn't look at one but yes we could do a couple of 10s or 15s and still have runway.
But if we looked at anything that was really substantial we would factor in that consideration and we just have to look at the Math of it.
But the good news is either way it's a good deal for us.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Okay that's helpful.
And then Daryl just a quickie.
In the PowerPoint you indicated that the $22 million of restructuring charges should provide a similar annual cost savings beginning in 4Q '13.
I'm just wanting to understand are you suggesting that therefore as we get to the end of '14 that full $22 million should be -- come out of expenses? Yes Betsy.
I think what we're saying there and Kelly started off with the Community Bank in trying to show what that impact is we'll probably be down in personnel costs not the incentive fees but the personnel costs at least $20 million in the next quarter or 2.
Most of the reductions enforced occur mid in the third quarter so we'll get a partial benefit third quarter and a full benefit in the fourth quarter.
But that's where the personnel cost line will come down there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're going to get that annualized impact sooner then a 12-month period that's going to be within the first quarter or 2? Yes Betsy.
We'll get the annualized impact of that not later then the end of this year probably maybe by the end of the third quarter.
We'll take our next question from Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to get a little more detail on your deposit reduction.
Daryl you all spoke about a meaningful decline -- continuing meaningful declines in CDs.
But we also -- but I also noticed declines in interest-bearing checking.
Is that basically the same concept or are you actually starting to see some depositors on their own pull out deposits for their own investments? Is there any of that going on in your footprint? I think what I would say we've had runoff in our CD portfolio for the last couple of years at this low rate environment.
It's just hard to get the consumers to buy CDs when rates are just so low.
I think as rates start to climb you're going to see that behavior start to switch back but it's too early for that to happen.
So we definitely will continue to see a lower cost in CDs for the next several quarters.
That's where the bulk of that benefit is.
As far as the now and savings deposit categories there really isn't a whole lot left there to reprice down for the most part.
You do see seasonal flows in those activities this past quarter.
Some of that was lumpy in some public deposits but the core still is really strong.
If you look at our DDA I mean DDA still continues to grow.
I mean our mix now of deposits is up to 26% DDA.
That's a huge movement for us if you look over the last 3 years.
We've had tremendous growth in DDA and that's really a reflection of how well we're executing on both our retail and commercial strategy and wealth strategy that we have out there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Clarke I'm not going to let you get away totally scot-free this morning.
Just a quick question on foreclosed property expense that's obviously come down dramatically over the past year.
Can you remind us where we should be thinking about a normalized level of foreclosed property expense might be? Fair question Matt.
I think it's pretty close to where it is.
But you should know that included in that expense we've always focused heavily on the real estate component of that and as our problem real estate credits have come down that's where the big swing has been.
But we also included our auto repossession expenses in there and so I think you're petty much at a normalized level where we are today.
We'll go next to Bryan Forne [ph] with Autonomous.
The -- Kelly I guess on -- you did an interview this morning and made some comments about where you thought lending standards were and kind of halfway back to where they were last cycle.
And I guess I just want to maybe deep dig on that and is it still kind of the leverage lending market which you've been talking about for a while that's most concerning you? Or are there more markets more pieces of the lending market where you think underwriting standards have gotten over their skis a little bit? Well obviously levered lending is the most pronounced and then large whole positions is kind of second to that.
But in terms of just basic underwriting it's kind of across the board disappointingly.
I mean you're seeing substantial term extensions relative to credit restructuring.
You're beginning to get back to the "covenant-light" structuring deals not as bad again as I've said about halfway back and hopefully we won't go all the way back.
But we are seeing a lot of deals that are being unwritten -- underwritten out there in a fashion that we would absolutely not do it.
And so I think what's happening is that people are just really really eager for revenue which is understandable.
And as I indicated in the interview memories tend to be short and so I worry that the industry is beginning to underwrite some credit so it will be problematic as we're going forward so discipline is important.
And we believe it's more important to have good profitable long term loan growth than short term loan growth might turn into very unprofitable growth down the road.
And so no we're not trying to be critical of anybody else but I'm just trying to honestly give an observation about what's going on in the industry.
That's helpful.
And then if I could follow up on capital.
I know you don't get to resubmit the resubmissions so to say but if you had known you were at a 9% Basel III ratio you've made some comments about the buyback expectations being low in the back half of the year because you didn't know that yet but you also made some comments about M&amp;A potentially accelerating in 2014.
So I guess if we put them together ultimately what I'm asking is how should we think about the scope for buybacks if you had known you were at a 9% Basel III ratio and ultimately into 2014 and beyond? Well it's a good question and obviously you only know what you know.
And so when we did do our submission we didn't -- what we did know was the probability of capital problems are going up.
And all of the rhetoric that's been out as -- the expectation at that time was it could go up really substantially.
And we didn't know what the final conditions of Basel would be.
In the earlier versions of that we would have been substantially penalized 100 basis points almost based on what the original projections were.
So yes now we know all of that and now we are in a much stronger position than we were that -- but that's why I've been saying consistently for the last several months you should expect us to be very conservative with regard to capital flow for us this year because of what we did know at the time we made a submission.
Now as we look forward to '14 we're in a strong capital position.
We'll be accreting substantial capital.
M&amp;A frankly the kind of deals we would do would probably not be requiring capital.
It would probably -- it could be capital accretive because of some of the institutions that we've been acquiring.
So as we go forward I fully expect that we will have good flexibility in terms of capital deployment.
I still like to think in terms of the priorities I've talked about in terms of organic dividends and acquisitions and buybacks.
But to the degree that we continue to get downward pressure from the regulators with regard to percentage of payouts which continue to exist and to the extent that acquisition opportunities that require capital are not out there that certainly increases our appetite with regard to buyback.
We'll go next to John Pancari with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Back on the expense side on comp expense how much of the comp expense increase this quarter was production related? I would say probably at least 3/4 of the increase was probably on production related incentives mainly in mortgage insurance capital markets areas is where it came from.
Yes because our FTEs went down remember? They were down 88 yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right good.
And then separately on loan demand can you just give us a little more color there on where you're seeing good demand right now what types of areas? And a little bit more color around your pipeline and trending commitments? Yes this is Ricky Brown.
We're seeing good activity in real estate right now particularly multi-family.
Some office activity our focused areas have been good there.
We've put a lot of emphasis on that got our specialized force sales force that is helping us in that area.
That's good.
Clearly the auto space with the wholesale has been a really nice improving area for us partnering with our folks in the field in the banking network Community Bank as well working with our folks in the Sales Finance area got some great professionals helping us do that business very very well.
Saw some nice improvement in ABL linked-quarter which is good.
We also saw some nice small commercial increase linked-quarter which is a very nice trend for us we feel good about that.
And then good production in DRL in the quarter and small business that's done in the branches so it was a really kind of across-the-board improved level of production from Q2 versus Q1.
And we hope that that will ultimately show continued good loan growth as people use those loans that we're making to them.
So pretty broad-based actually across-the-board.
C&amp;I as you saw was pretty good.
It was pretty good in the Community Bank as well up positively close to 2% or so.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly on the C&amp;I side there the line utilization for overall C&amp;I do you have that? John this is Clarke.
It's actually still flat for us it's around 37%.
So again a big future opportunity for us as our commitments have clearly grown but our utilization is still pretty flat.
We'll go next to Michael Rose with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This question is for Kelly.
Just outside of M&amp;A you guys have done or made a lot of investments in other areas of the franchise.
Where do you see the greatest opportunities for additional expansion or products? So Michael right now I think there are probably 3 that I would think about.
I really think continuing to deploy capital and this organic commercial growth strategy in Texas and frankly if that goes as well as I think it's going to go in other markets like that in other parts of the country.
It's a very efficient way to expand our franchise.
So I think expanding the Community Bank in the targeted approach.
The Corporate Banking space is going to continue to get a substantial amount of our investment.
The margin of returns for us are fantastic and our execution ability is really really good.
And then in terms of marginal investments we're going to continue to throw it at Wealth management.
That machine is working really well for us now.
Chris Hanson and his team have done a great job developing that.
We've got virtually all of the infrastructure cost in place and the marginal returns on investment are very high so those would be the 2 the 3 in terms of organic.
Other than any unique bank acquisition that might come along we'll continue to look at insurance acquisitions over time but to be honest right now we've kind of got our plate full on insurance acquisitions and not to say we wouldn't do one -- because I wouldn't want anybody listening to think we wouldn't but we've got some really good opportunity to continue to execute on the Crump advantages.
And so expect to see most of our attention focused on those organic areas.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up.
As you've expanded those business lines geographically as well could we at some point down the road whether it's 5 or 10 years see you kind of follow with more of a traditional branch network to maybe fund some of that growth over time? Yes.
So a natural long-term organic path would be -- in Texas for example you expand with this commercial strategy.
You build around that your wealth strategy because it's very closely tied to your promotional strategy.
You build your insurance around that and commercial P&amp;C because that's tied to that.
When you get to pure bread-and-butter retail that's a long long ground game.
And so in 5 to 10 years I'd expect to say probably not doing much in terms of retail we'll continue to focus on the organic commercial strategy.
Over 30 years yes but I would rather expect the most likely scenario is we'll build out that retail network in places like Texas with appropriate retail acquisitions.
There are many good partners down there folks we know very well that we're very close to and we think that time will come for a good partnership somewhere along.
We'll go next to Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you share with us what your view is on now that you have your Tier 1 common ratio at 9% you're required to be at 7%.
What -- where are you going to be comfortable running at when we get to a more normalized state in banking let's say sometime next year? Gerard that's a question that we're all kind of struggling with right now.
Fortunately now we don't have to have a cushion for OCI variation.
So that takes a -- some off the table.
You do want to always have some dry powder in case of really good cash acquisitions.
And then you want to have some comfort around that 7% because recall if you go below that 7% that's not a good day.
That triggers the dividend issues and some compensation issues so you want to have a nice cushion around that.
And so then you've got the question of a domestic SIFI charge that may come we don't know.
I still bet this will be a small one but it might be just 25 basis.
So we're not really ready to hang a number out there Gerard.
But it's something south of 9% based on what you know today but it's not 7.5% so I mean it's a number that we're going to have to fill our way through does a SIFI charge come that changes it.
And then we will probably keep some buffer in there frankly because even though we're not a advanced approach bank today we're not that far away from it and so we're not going to be too aggressive in terms of trying to push that number to closest to the 7%.
Plus to be honest with you Gerard as you know we're just really conservative on capital.
I'd like to rather make you all happy with relatively more capital with much harder work and much better execution than trying to jack up returns based on skimming down capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up you guys showed some very strong growth in certain loan areas such as net average deal of floorplan loan in the Community Bank.
Is there anything you can share with us other than the numbers down the road of course but share with us to ensure that proper controls and procedures are in place so that very rapid loan growth doesn't lead to some credit issues in a couple of years? Yes.
Gerard as I said we've got a great partnership with our dealer services area in the bank.
We hired some great professionals that really know the business to help us to ensure that we're underwriting these credits appropriately.
We're also working to beef up our standards in terms of servicing to ensure that we get out CD singles every month inspect our inventories a lot of work there.
We're going to be very aggressive at monitoring and executing if things get out of trust and so we feel very good that we are handling this business well.
Remember that with the great indirect business that we have we had so many dealers that knew us very well that wanted to do this business with us and we were doing their capital so just a natural extension so it gave us a great growth area.
But I feel very good in our partnership with Clarke.
He's going to allow us to handle this credit and do it in a way that the risk is managed very well.
Clarke you want to comment to that? Yes.
I might just add Gerard remind you all that we've been in this business for many years.
We just chose to stay out of it for a while because the capitas had beaten the returns down so low so it's not a new business for us but it is a new targeted initiative because the returns are better.
But the risk management oversight is in place we have specialists on the sourcing side.
We have specialists on the enterprise risk side behind that so we feel very comfortable with the a good measured plan.
We'll go next to Christopher Marinac with FIG Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kelly and Daryl I'm just curious if you look out beyond the near-term and perhaps a Fed change in policy late next year or even 2015.
Do you have a sense of how much of that you can retain and also I guess it's partially a question of how much deposits and funding cost can lag into that scenario? How much retained in terms of capital? LLC Research Division</strong> Really in terms of margin just kind of margin and a funding cost question.
Yes.
So we have about 45% of our balance sheet that's a variable rate.
So the slide that we show on our deck shows that we are slightly asset-sensitive.
When the short end starts to move we will definitely benefit even more stronger than what we are just with the steeper yield curve and it'll be a more immediate impact on us.
So the wildcard is how quickly do you have to reprice your deposits and how sticky are your deposits.
It really comes down to being competitive with the competition and other places in the marketplace.
We believe that we've had really good strong core growth good new clients come into the bank and believe that the deposits will stay with us.
That said some of the dollars will leave the company and go to other alternatives so we are conscious of that.
We've put strategies in place to do other liquidity and funding so that when that does or to happen it won't have a material impact on our margins and all of that.
So we feel pretty good that if you look at our sensitivity up 200 basis points.
We're almost at 4% increase in net interest income over our 12-month time period.
So we think we are positioned the right way.
We really haven't changed that position for the last couple of years and eventually rates will rise both on the short end and as well as the long end continues to steepen.
And that's all the time we have for questions today.
At this time I'll turn the call back over to the speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us today.
We do have a couple of folks still in the queue so I apologize for that but we've gone a couple of minutes over.
So thank you.
If you have further questions please don't hesitate to call Investor Relations.
Thank you and have a good day.
That does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the BB&amp;T Corporation Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Alan Greer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Carrie and good morning everyone.
And thanks to all of our listeners for joining us today.
We have with us Kelly King our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Daryl Bible our Chief Financial Officer who will review the results for the third quarter as well as provide some thoughts about the fourth quarter.
We also have with us other members of our executive management team who are with us to participate in the Q&amp;A session: Chris Henson our Chief Operating Officer; Ricky Brown the President of Community Banking; and Clarke Starnes our Chief Risk Officer.
We will be reviewing a slide presentation during our remarks today.
A copy of the presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental financial information are available on our website.
Before we begin let me remind you that BB&amp;T does not provide public earnings predictions or forecasts.
However there may be statements made during the course of this call that express management's intentions beliefs or expectations.
BB&amp;T's actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements.
I'll refer you to the forward-looking statement warnings in our presentation and our SEC filings.
Our presentation also includes certain non-GAAP disclosures.
Please refer to Page 2 and the Appendix of our presentation for the appropriate reconciliations to GAAP.
And now I'll turn it over to Kelly.
Thank you Alan.
Good morning everybody and thanks for your continued interest in BB&amp;T.
I would describe our quarter overall as a solid performance in a very challenging environment.
Looking at a few of the highlights starting on Page 3 on the slide deck net income was $268 million or $0.37.
You'll recall that we had a substantial tax adjustment in there following our adverse opinion on STARS.
So if you exclude the $235 million on tax adjustment net income is $503 million which was up a pretty strong 7.2% versus the third quarter of '12.
Excluding the tax adjustment diluted EPS of $0.70 which is an increase of 6.1% versus third quarter of '12 so we felt good about that.
Total revenue was $2.4 billion it was down from second quarter because of seasonality on insurance and mortgage.
We had stable net interest margins though which we felt good about so that was good.
We did have some growth in some key areas kind of normal blocking and tackling areas like service charges bank card fees trust and investment advisory income.
And we do expect revenues to grow in the next quarter because Insurance will be stronger from a seasonal point of view.
And even though mortgage will probably still be declining we think the insurance rebound will cover that.
So the fee income ratio was 41.6% which is still a strong industry number.
In terms of loans they increased 3% versus second quarter.
We do have seasonally strong growth in our other lending subsidiaries; they grew 23.3%.
Sales finance was up a strong 22%.
Adjusted C&amp;I was 2.1%.
Now that's adjusting for the mortgage warehouse which is down I think for us and everybody.
Direct retail lending is beginning to grow pretty reasonably now 4.4%.
Revolving credit was up a strong 7%.
I will point out that we did sell $500 million in loans through the sale of our consumer lending subsidiary.
We'll give you a little bit more detail on that in a little bit.
If you want to look at -- follow along continue on that Slide 3.
Average deposits decreased $2 billion.
That's managed because of some non-client deposits and our focus on margin.
Very importantly DDA or noninterest-bearing deposits increased 7.8%.
Deposit mix did improve while total cost declined.
I think it's important to recognize that in -- just in the last year our DDA as a percentage of total deposits increased from 23.7% to 27% which is one of our most important long-term diversification strategies.
Big story for the quarter was our credit quality.
Charge-offs declined to 0.49% of average loans and leases lowest since 2007 and below our long-term normalized range of 55% to 75%.
Several factors there: substantial recoveries which is encouraging to see at this point of the cycle.
And we're really winding down our advantage asset workout strategy which is a big part of that.
The NPAs were down 8.9%.
NPLs were down 10.4%.
ALLL coverage ratio was 1.66x from 1.55x.
And expenses they decreased on an annualized basis 6.6% so we've got good management on basic expenses.
That was primarily because of decreased reduction in personnel expense.
We had less FTEs and lower restructuring cost.
I would point out though that we've mentioned during the quarter that we are having some elevated costs related to systems and processing changes in the company.
We're using a substantial number of consultants on a temporary basis to do some of these projects.
These expenses are temporary.
They are not to be considered in our long-term run rate as they will go away.
So the way to think about these expenses is we're doing these systems and some of these projects.
The project-type expenses will go away pretty quickly.
The systems costs are kind of a staged in; some of these projects take 2 or 3 years.
And so the expenses early on will go up because you're kind of running a duplicate in systems.
And then what happens is as the new system's ready the duplicate of systems drops off.
That cost fades away.
And then you get additional cost benefits as you get efficiencies of the characteristics of the new systems.
So it's a really good long-term story but it does give you a little bit of noise in the short-term.
But I promise you we are really dealing with and focused on expenses today as we have been in the past.
If you look at Slide 4 we did have a substantial unusual item and then a smaller one I just want comment to you about.
If you recall we did have a $235 million after-tax adjustment which was primarily related to our adverse STARS opinion.
We are now fully reserved and there's no remaining exposure to that transaction.
I would just mention 2 developments since our opinion.
Another bank had a positive ruling after they filed a motion to reconsider a portion of their previously decided case.
So that was a positive step relative to our analysis.
And a second institution received a partial summary judgment in their favor on a STARS transaction.
So different courts are looking at these things different ways.
And while there's been some positive developments we think the appropriate position for us to be in given our case is to be very conservative.
And therefore we are fully reserved in this area.
I know there are probably a couple of questions.
For example what is the -- in the $235 million versus the STARS.
That was just another smaller issue that we'd received a draft notice on from the IRS a very small issue we decided to go ahead and fully reserve for that as well to be conservative.
I know some of you will ask a question about what about the previously disclosed worst case of $328 million versus the $235 million.
Well that was our worst case.
We always try to be conservative.
And the fact is the numbers just came in better.
But the main point is we are now fully reserved.
No additional exposure with regard to STARS which is a good thing.
Another small thing which was just $0.01 on EPS but we did have some land bank for potential new branch expansions and we decided to reevaluate and mark those down in terms of their valuation.
So that was a small item but I did want to point that out.
If you turn to Slide 5.
I thought our average loan growth was strong given the economy and thankfully our conservative risk appetite.
We did have C&amp;I as I mentioned adjusted on 2.1%.
I would point out that our total loan growth was 4.4%.
Now we did have a substantial and continual runoff in covered loans.
So that's adjusted down to the 3% we're reporting.
But the 4.4% is more meaningful in terms of ongoing kind of run rate.
We had strong retail at 4.4%; sales finance 22%; revolving credit 7%.
Our other lending subsidiaries are really performing well for us part of our diversification strategy.
For example Sheffield was up 46%; AFCO/CAFO was up 40%.
So while seasonal they give us very strong results in the seasons when they're very very strong.
Now we'll get some backdown on that as we head into the fourth.
So we do expect modest loan growth for the fourth.
Auto demand expected to be strong; double-digit growth expected there.
Growth in other lending will be lower as I mentioned.
Commercial loans and direct retail's kind of like we're going into the third quarter.
We did have the $500 million disposition as a part of the sale of a subsidiary.
Just to give you a little color on that this was a subsidiary that we chose to divest of because frankly looking forward the risk-adjusted return in this business was not what we expected in terms of our cost of capital.
And so we expect to redeploy that capital into other businesses such as Regional Acceptance for example which does looking forward have a really good expected risk-adjusted return as it has in the past.
And so if you sort of look at that together it's basically a continued part of our diversification strategy.
While I hate to lose $500 million today it is definitely a much better allocation of capital in terms of running the business going forward.
So we think that this is kind of an overall tough loan market to be honest.
The economy is just not growing that fast and not likely to grow that fast in the near-term particularly given all that's going on in Washington.
Fortunately though we have some really good niche businesses.
And I think this is a -- that's the market where you get what you get from the market but then you grow above the market based on your niche strategies.
For example our national corporate banking strategy has really got several years of legs under it in terms of -- plus we just put a new team in Chicago and they're already off to a really good start.
Specialized Lending as I mentioned just doing fantastic.
Our wealth strategy is going extremely well.
We have huge untapped potential in places like Florida Alabama and Texas.
And so while we are pretty conservative frankly in terms of our thinking with regard to the economy we feel relatively better in terms of our own situation because of the new strategy opportunities that we have.
If you look at Slide 6.
Had another strong DDA performance.
Continued our mixed improvement continued our -- reducing our cost.
So DDA as I said was at 7.8%.
We think that's very strong in the marketplace.
Our CDs are running down but that's a managed process for our non-client CDs.
We're just simply not going to pay up for those when we don't need the funding.
So we did reduce cost by another basis point.
We still think we'll get that to slightly below 30 basis points in the fourth quarter and we would expect DDA to kind of grow on a similar basis as we go forward.
So that's a quick look at some of the highlights.
Let me now turn it to Daryl for some more color.
Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
I'm going to talk about credit quality then interest margin fee income noninterest expense capital and our segment reporting.
Continuing on Slide 7 we continue to see significant improvement in our credit metrics.
Third quarter net charge-offs excluding covered were $142 million down 34% compared to the second quarter.
A significant drop in inflows resulted in lower net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases.
Net charge-offs dropped from 75 basis points last quarter to 49 basis points this quarter.
This represents our lowest charge-off rate in nearly 6 years.
We also dipped below our normalized charge-off guidance of 55 to 75 basis points.
The primary drivers for continued improvement in net charge-offs were older vintage loans that were largely through the process; improved recoveries which increased 25% from second quarter; and continuing improvement in real estate values.
The fourth quarter we believe net charge-offs will fall into the lower end of the range of 55 to 75 basis points with a modest seasonal impact on our consumer loan portfolio.
Nonperforming assets excluding covered declined 8.9% during the third quarter and represent our lowest nonperforming assets as a percentage of total assets in nearly 6 years.
We continue to expect nonperforming assets to improve at a modest pace in the fourth quarter assuming no significant economic deterioration.
Turning to Slide 8.
As you can see the 23% drop in commercial NPA inflows led to the loan loss improvement and the lower provision.
Even though delinquencies can fluctuate due to seasonality both 30 to 89 and 90 days past due improved during the quarter.
Also our allowance in nonperforming loans increased from 1.55x to 1.66x reflecting continued strong coverage.
We had a reserve release of $52 million during the quarter compared to last quarter's $36 million.
Turning to Slide 9.
As you recall we provided net interest margin guidance for the third quarter to be down 5 to 10 basis points.
However margin was better than we expected.
As reported net interest margin came in at 3.68% and core margin came in at 3.39%.
The primary reason for the difference between guidance and what we reported is: better-than-expected credit spreads in several large loan categories and positive duration adjustment in the investment portfolio.
In addition the margin impact from the covered assets was better than anticipated.
Looking at margin outlook for the fourth quarter we expect a decline of approximately 5 to 10 basis points.
The decline in margin guidance is driven by lower rates on earning assets runoff of covered assets tighter spreads on retail loans and the sale of the subsidiary of loans of approximately $500 million which will lower core margin run rate by 6 basis points.
Offsets to the decline in margin include lower funding costs and favorable funding and asset mix changes.
As you can see in the rate sensitivities graph we became slightly less asset sensitive due to an increase in fixed assets and variable rate liabilities.
Turning to Slide 10 our fee income ratio for the third quarter decreased to 41.6%.
This was driven primarily by seasonality of our Insurance line of business and a decrease in mortgage production due to the interest rate environment.
Insurance income was $71 million lower than the second quarter which reflects normal seasonality in the Insurance business.
It also reflects the impact of a $13 million experience-based refund of reinsurance premiums recognized in the prior quarter.
Mortgage banking income declined $51 million primarily due to decrease in margins and lower production due to the rise in interest rates.
Mortgage originations slipped to 59% purchase versus 44% purchase last quarter.
Investment banking and brokerage income decreased $10 million primarily due to seasonality compared to the second quarter.
The decline in other income primarily reflects lower income related to assets for a certain post-employment benefit which is offset in personnel expense.
Finally FDIC loss share income was $11 million better than the second quarter primarily due to the offset in the provision for covered loans.
Looking at Slide 11.
Noninterest expense decreased $25 million or 7% annualized compared to the second quarter.
Personnel expense decreased primarily due to lower production-related incentives and commissions; a decrease in post employment benefit expense which is offset in other income; decrease in pension expense; and a seasonal decrease in social security expense.
Additionally FTEs were down 192 compared to last quarter.
Merger-related and restructuring charges were $23 million lower than the prior quarter.
This was a result of the optimization activities related to the Community Bank that were initiated in the second quarter.
Professional services and other expenses increased $13 million and $3 million respectively.
These increases were driven by increased legal expenses cost associated with system and process enhancements and fair value adjustments to land previously held for future branch expansion.
We would expect these expenses to decline in coming quarters driving total noninterest expense lower.
Also while the efficiency ratio increased this quarter that was largely due to lower revenue given the seasonal decline in insurance and a slowdown in mortgage banking income.
We expect to produce positive operating leverage and see an improvement in our efficiency ratio in the fourth quarter.
We continue to target an efficiency ratio in the mid-50% range.
Finally our effective tax rate excluding the adjustment was 28.3% for the quarter.
We would expect a similar rate in the fourth quarter.
Turning to Slide 12.
Capital levels remain strong and are up from the second quarter Tier 1 common at 9.4% and Tier 1 of 11.3%.
Under final rules our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common is 9%.
Now here are a few highlights from our segment disclosures.
Starting on Slide 13 Community Bank net income totaled $268 million showing strong growth on a linked and common quarter basis.
Dealer floor plan loans increased $273 million or 77% common and 24% linked quarter.
In addition Direct retail loans increased 6% and 4% respectively for common and linked quarters.
Turning to Slide 14.
Residential mortgage net income was $77 million in the third quarter flat compared to the prior quarter.
Noninterest income declined $56 million driven by lower gains on residential mortgage production and sales.
Higher interest rates during the quarter reduced refinancing volume.
Pricing also tightened due to increased competition.
Total loans serviced exceeded $110 million at the end of the quarter.
Finally the provision for loan and leases decreased $57 million driven by improved credit trends in the residential mortgage portfolio.
Looking at Dealer Financial Services on Slide 15.
We continue to generate strong production with year-to-date loan originations up 31% compared to prior year and 52% on like-quarter basis.
Regional Acceptance our nonprime subsidiary generated solid loan growth despite intense market competition in this spectrum.
This subsidiary is one of our national businesses.
We entered 2 new markets in the third quarter California and Minnesota.
Going forward we plan to expand into other new markets.
On Slide 16 our Specialized Lending segment experienced another solid quarter with net income of $83 million.
Average year-to-date loans grew 8% compared to 2012 with strong performance in our Sheffield premium finance commercial finance and equipment finance businesses.
Loan loss provision decreased $26 million primarily driven by improved credit trends in the commercial finance portfolio and recoveries recognized in the quarter.
Moving to Slide 17.
BB&amp;T Insurance Services generated $22 million in net income down linked quarter primarily due to seasonality but up on a common quarter basis.
This was primarily driven by organic growth in wholesale and retail property and casualty due to improved market conditions and continued firming of pricing.
Additionally we are placing strong strategic emphasis in preparation for health care reform.
There is a good opportunity for our employee benefits business.
Turning to Slide 18.
Our Financial Services segment generated $77 million in net income primarily driven by Corporate Banking and wealth management with fund growth of 22% and 23% respectively.
Total assets invested increased to $106 billion or 12% growth compared to third quarter 2012.
Finally Financial Services segment finished the quarter with a couple of major accomplishments.
First BB&amp;T Wealth again ranked among Barron's annual listing of top 40 wealth management firms.
Also we announced the hiring of an experienced Corporate Banking team based in Chicago.
That team will serve as a base for our national effort to serve the needs of companies in food agribusiness and beverage industries.
Both of these accomplishments emphasize our continued effort to grow both our Corporate Banking and wealth businesses.
And with that let me turn it back over to Kelly for closing remarks and Q&amp;A.
Thanks Daryl.
I appreciate it.
And so overall it was a strong quarter as I said given the challenges excellent asset quality improvement.
Our diversification strategy has continued to work.
And looking forward we expect positive operating leverage and improved efficiency in the fourth.
And so we are now ready I think Alan to turn to questions.
Okay.
Thank you Kelly.
We'll now move to our Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I'll ask Carrie to come back on the line and explain how you may participate in this Q&amp;A process.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Erika Najarian from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My primary question has to do with your efficiency ratio.
You were at 60 this quarter and you mentioned that your goal is still to get to the mid-50s.
And when I look back a year ago you were at the mid-50s and you actually took down your expense levels.
But most of the increase in efficiency as you pointed out is in the revenue side.
As we think about your goal I guess could you give us a sense of when BB&amp;T can reach the mid-50s? And whether most of that is going to come through the expense line? Erika that's a really good question.
And I think you characterized it right.
The challenge today is on the revenue side.
We're actually managing our expenses very well.
We do have this temporary lift up in the expenses that I've talked about but I'm really not concerned about that going forward.
On the revenue side you get these seasonal changes.
Recall it popped up in the -- then they'll pop back down in the fourth because they're insurance and so forth primarily insurance.
So over the next couple of years or so we would expect to move back down towards that mid-50s.
It will be largely out of revenue growth.
Now we're not -- we have to diligently control expenses through that process.
But frankly as I said earlier a lot of these expenses we're investing today will yield better and will optimum expense control and a lot of systems areas going forward so that'll be a positive.
We have a lot of investments like in wealth management and Corporate Banking et cetera that we're building an infrastructure that will yield benefits as we go forward.
And so we think as these strategies continue to develop revenue will gain momentum and our efficiency ratio will come down.
Research Division</strong> And my follow-up to that is I guess the message is once the professional or the consulting expenses are out of the run rate on the expense side and if you could quantify that that would be great.
I'm sorry if I missed it.
Then the goal for the expense side is just to keep it flat after you take out those consulting fees? Yes Erica this is Daryl.
If you look at the third quarter we had approximately $40 million of extra one-time costs in our numbers this quarter.
I would say about half of that will probably come out of our expense base for the next quarter or 2.
The other half is going to take some time over a couple of years as we get through the system conversions and then we probably get to leverage that and actually get some benefit after we do full conversions and undo what we had in place before that.
So I think we'll get a little relief.
But as Kelly said I think efficiency is really driven on the revenue side.
Next year we have really the last year of really the meaningful purchase accounting benefits from Colonial; so that will come out of the numbers for the next 3 to 4 quarters.
And after that it's really just growing the core company and the organic piece of the business.
Your next question comes from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just some follow-up questions on the expense side.
I mean I can appreciate the extra regulatory and systems cost.
But I also recall I think it was a couple of quarters ago you just talked about kind of rationalizing the branch network a little bit streamlining some things and basically trying to lower costs even versus that 1Q expense level.
I guess the question is even if you take out the $40 million versus the run rate you're at the right now it still feels like the cost might be higher than you had thought a couple of quarters ago.
And if revenue stays kind of sluggish for the industry and for you guys is there more opportunity or more thoughts to cut a little bit deeper? So Matt I think the -- what we talked about before in terms of our optimization strategy has worked exactly as we expected across the entire enterprise.
You're simply seeing it being disguised today because of these temporary costs and the reduction in revenue.
But if you didn't have the temporary cost if you didn't have the reduction in revenue this quarter you would clearly see the Community Bank.
In fact I'll get Ricky to give you a sense of the success he's had in that project.
Yes thanks Kelly.
Matt we have achieved everything that we set out to do.
If you recall in the second quarter we announced the regional restructuring from 37 to 23 regions.
We got clear savings there; revamped our retail branch sales force management level and that worked well.
We've reduced some additional support in the home office for the Community Bank we see no issues there.
We got the 43 branches closed that we talked about that's working.
We're dealing with QM and preparing for that.
And out of that we think we've got some savings in addition that we'll begin to see some run rate in the third and ongoing into the fourth.
So we have been very successful in doing what we set out to do in terms of reconceptualizing reducing costs anywhere from $25 million to $35 million on a run rate basis.
We still think there's ways to go in terms of branch optimization.
We continue to look at underperformers.
We feel like that there's a little room to go there.
We're going to continue to be diligent.
But if you go back over the last 4 5 years the Community Bank has really done a really fantastic job we think of reducing run rate costs of operating our business pretty significant numbers.
And yet it has not impacted our ability to serve our customers.
In fact our client service quality numbers at midyear is the highest in the history of BB&amp;T.
So we feel really good about being efficient and also delivering on our service quality and meeting the needs of our clients.
So we feel really good about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just separately.
Daryl maybe you could give us the Colonial accretion? Or even just kind of the bottom line net revenue number as you think out the next few quarters here? Yes.
So if you look at both GAAP margin and core margin core margin as I said in my comments is going to come down approximately 6 basis points due to the sale of one of our lending subsidiaries.
The GAAP margin will probably be down closer to 10 basis points on a GAAP basis.
From a core basis thereafter we're going to be relatively flat.
We've been basically relatively flat on core margin for the last year.
I think we'll stay probably relatively flat for the rest of next year.
But you still have the run out of the purchase accounting.
So if we're at 3.68% right now we'll probably end '14 around 3.40%.
And at that point there's very little spread difference between our GAAP margin and our core margin no more than 10 basis points there.
And then going forward then there's not a whole lot of purchase accounting left in the numbers.
We'll move now to Paul Miller with FBR.
Research Division</strong> With respect to your loan portfolio especially your C&amp;I loans and your Residential Mortgage loans which is the bulk of your portfolio.
Can you talk a little bit about what type of pricing is coming in? On the Residential Mortgage side what type of pricing on the 5 1s and the 30-year are you putting on or are you just putting 5 1s on? So on the mortgages ARMs we did see a big increase in mortgage loan activity this past quarter.
I mean you can see that the portfolio in mortgages was relatively flat it didn't run off.
We're mainly putting on for the most part shorter ARMs more in that 3 and 5 1 ARMs.
And if you look at the lifetime spreads of these it's probably 1% to 1.5% versus our cost of funds.
Research Division</strong> And your C&amp;I? C&amp;I if you look at it it's down about 20 basis points.
We're about 2 10 from the previous quarter.
We're seeing pressure in all segments whether it's large medium and small.
Research Division</strong> So you still -- okay.
So you're seeing pressure on the pricing? Yes.
The credit spreads are down about 20 basis points.
Our next question comes from John Pancari with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> On the expense side on the regulatory cost component that $40 million that we saw this quarter where -- can you remind us again where that could go to? How much of that -- of a decline could you see there? What would you view as a normalized run rate? Yes we had a one-time catch-up.
There's a Dodd-Frank tax that we basically booked this quarter it was basically 7 quarters worth of a catch-up.
So it was about $6 million one-time increase.
It should be back into the mid-30s next quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then that's a good run rate going forward? I believe so.
Maybe down a little bit as credit quality continues to improve.
But it -- we've had a good run on that so far.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the credit front looking at your charge-off outlook the low end of your norm range so implying that 50 basis point -- 55-base-point level given that you had indicated before you're starting to see some good recoveries coming in.
First off I want to just verify that you're still seeing that on some of your -- particularly on some of you real estate-related credits.
And then if you so I mean could that -- even that 55-bp range could that even be a little bit conservative? John this is Clarke Starnes.
We think it could be.
We -- as we've said in the deck there is some modest opportunity to outperform that number.
We did see really strong recoveries in the third quarter.
In fact in the commercial ADC area we were in a net recovery position for that whole sub-portfolio so we are beginning to see some of that.
We do have a big mix of consumer finance businesses though with higher normalized losses so we're not going to see continued reduction there.
So overall we think we can certainly operate within the low end of the normalized range with some ability to outperform over the next several quarters if we continue to see those strong recovery rates.
We'll move now to Ryan Nash with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First question for Kelly.
Can you tell me a little bit about what's happening in commercial real estate? Obviously we've seen an increase in industry growth over the past quarter or so and I think you guys are still seeing declines.
So could you just talk about maybe what some of the drivers are? Is it more geographical in your markets you're not seeing a pick up? Is the competition from CMBS making it harder to grow? Can you just kind of flesh out what's driving your disconnect from the industry? So I think the overall industry is obviously improved in CRE.
Multifamily is strong across the board.
Hotels are kind of back to the normal.
Retail office is still really really soft.
But what's really happening is there is intense competition everybody's going after loans wherever they can find them.
We have an appetite to increase our CRE but we do not have an appetite strong enough to take on too much risk at the extraordinarily low prices and that's really what's going on in the marketplace today.
We've -- I've talked to our people nobody has ever seen it quite as intense as it is today in that space.
It's just incredible.
And so it's the time to be patient.
We think it will turn as we head into the next 12 to 15 months.
But for right now the differentiation between us and the marketplace is simply risk appetite.
We're not going to jump out of the frying pan and into the fire.
And we are concerned about some of the strategies that are in place in the marketplace but we're going to stay the course.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just a follow-up to one of the earlier questions just asked.
While the charge-offs could end up coming in on the low-end of your expectations could you give us a sense of the trajectory of the provision from here? Should we expect provisions to match charge-offs or do you think the reserve could continue to come down from here? Ryan this is Clarke.
Certainly we feel very good about the reserve levels we have now.
And ultimately the level of reserve is going to be contingent upon what that credit trajectory is.
So I would say from where I sit today in our outlook we could see some additional improvement or reduction in the reserve levels if these trends continued.
However I would just say as we look out beyond I think reserve releases and the pace would have to moderate just given what we see.
We'll move now to Craig Siegenthaler with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on your last question on commercial real estate.
Why do you think it's so competitive today? Do you blame sort of the yield curve which makes it easier for life insurers to underrate low yields with longer-terms? And also if we are in the middle of an economic recovery why do you actually think it will improve over the next 12 months? Because normally I think competition actually keeps heating up through the recovery.
Well I mean you've got a lot of factors going on in terms of -- in the CRE market.
And you still have it still today.
Because of low levels of interest rates you have a lot of portfolio moving out into conduit markets so that's still pretty strong at these all-time low rates.
We've got the quality underwriting as I mentioned before.
But yes as you expect the economy to recover you'll certainly expect to see more CRE activity.
For example though you've seen nothing in office and you've seen nothing at retail which is a big part of the market as the economy gets better consumer demand goes up you'll see those markets recover and that'll be good for us and everybody else.
Multifamily I would guess would begin to peak a little bit.
But as that is peaking that will be because the price points have changed.
So a single-family is more attractive so single-family ADC will pick up.
And so when you look at all of that together I think you're at the very low point with regard to CRE for us because of our risk appetite.
For the industry I think overall CRE opportunity will improve and I expect it will improve for us as we continue to aggressively pursue the market not in terms of underwriting but in terms of efforts.
So I think overall it will improve for us and everybody else.
Research Division</strong> Thanks Kelly.
Very helpful.
And just one follow-up.
You referenced $39 million decline in personal expenses mostly coming from lower production-related comp.
As we move forward over the next 12 months and you think about your own expectations for gain on sale margins and productions and what that does to revenue how do you think variable expenses and fixed expenses could benefit and how are you thinking about repositioning your business for that? So Craig you're talking about our mortgage business correct? Research Division</strong> Yes just specifically mortgage.
Yes.
So spreads did come down this quarter.
There is some change with the variable comp you said it's probably a 20% to 25% relationship versus the revenue in the mortgage business.
I think as we get through QM that Ricky talked about then we will rightsize our business in 2014 to whatever volume we see at that point.
We're in the midst of basically moving a lot of production that was in our Direct Retail channel into the mortgage company and that's going on as we speak right now.
And once we finish that conversion and get through that then we'll get into '14 we'll see what the activity is in the mortgage area and then we'll rightsize accordingly.
Our next question comes from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have a question that relates to your NIM and your loan outlook.
You indicated that we should look for moderate loan growth and I'm just wondering if I should read into that current rate of loan growth or for signaling a little bit of a slowdown in loan growth rate especially given the conversation that we've had so far on the call? And then I also wanted to understand how much more competitive you're looking to be on lending and lending rates? I mean clearly one of the themes in the industry this quarter is more competitive pricing.
So should we look for that 5 to 10 NIM compression to potentially be a little bit more so to try to get some more loan growth in the door or we're looking to decelerate the loan growth here? Betsy I think that's a question that I worry the most about.
To be honest it's a little indeterminate right now.
Let me explain what I mean.
So the economy is just not producing much loan activity today.
When people talk about their loan growth I think if you really drill down most everybody would tell you 90-plus percent of what they're doing is moving around the existing business.
There's just not much pure economic activity going on out there.
In the very largest businesses that have international activities there are some growth there.
But everywhere else it's pretty tepid.
And so does the change in Washington last night sparked more confidence into people to start doing things.
Who knows? But that would be a positive.
Do rates take off and that causes the conduit market to slow down and so the exit at the side of the back door slows down? That would be positive.
But if things stay as they are today I would expect that it's going to be very hard to get -- it should be very hard to get some kind of growth rate in our lines in the fourth that we have in the third.
Now that having been said that doesn't mean I don't think we're going to do it.
I don't think you could get 3% or 4% frankly in the market I just don't think you can get it.
The market is only growing 2% so this notion that banks are going to grow loans faster than the GDP is kind of an interesting conclusion to reach.
And so I think it's going to be tough in the marketplace.
But don't forget Betsy we have these really positive unusual niches.
I mean we're going to put more emphasis not on cutting price not on taking more risk we're going to put a lot more emphasis because of how difficult it is in the marketplace on our Specialized Lending strategies on own our wealth strategy on our Community Banking strategy in Texas on our national Corporate Banking strategy.
So when we say modest we use that word to hedge a bit to be honest.
But if I'd bet today I'd bet it would be in the 2% to 3% range.
It won't be 5% or 6%.
And I think it will be because of what we got in these areas are defined.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Daryl you mentioned the 5% to 10% basis point decline and then when you talked through earlier how we got to the 10% but you're also looking for some amelioration of that from lower funding cost and funding mix et cetera right? Yes.
I mean if we didn't have the sale of that subsidiary our core margin would be within 1 or 2 basis points.
I mean our core margin is holding in there pretty well.
But the subsidiary we saw had higher-yielding loans and it also had higher provisions and other higher costs so the net number is not a big give-up.
But from a margin perspective that's why it's going to cost us about 6 basis points in the core.
Research Division</strong> And was that an RWA decision to sell that asset? Yes Betsy.
It wasn't specifically RWA.
It was the inherent risk today frankly from a regulatory perspective in terms of that class of lending we -- the Specialized Consumer Lending business.
And we are just concerned about where that's going forward.
And the cost increases that go with servicing that kind of portfolio in this new regulatory environment are enormous.
And so when you get through forecasting all of that the risk-adjusted return and risk being broadly defined Betsy is just not -- it was just not an acceptable investment opportunity for us.
Our next question comes from Gaston Ceron with Morningstar Equity Research.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up a little bit on the questions about loan growth.
On the economy it sounds like you're being a little conservative in outlook which seems prudent.
But can you talk about the process of longer-term growth? I mean maybe at what point you kind of expect things to kind of pick up? Yes so my view about the long-term loan growth is dependent on one thing -- and I know I say this quarter-after-quarter but it just happens to be the truth.
And that is that when we get a return to certainty and more confidence primarily based on changes in Washington obviously we got a positive change last night hopefully we'll get a positive change over the next 60 days.
Let's just assume for the moment we get some positive changes out of Washington then I think to be honest you could see a number of years of above trend-line growth in the economy and above trend-line growth in loan opportunities.
Because business people when you talk to them and I -- before I get to travel around a lot and I talk to 500 600 business CEOs every year they really haven't invested on the margin for 5 years and they definitely need and want to invest.
And so the minute they feel a sense of confidence returning then I think you'll see a lot of planned expansions equipment renewals rolling stock replacements that's going to really really benefit particularly small and middle market where we are really solidly entrenched.
And so again if you make that proviso in terms of change in D.C.
then my optimism over the next 3 to 5 years is going to be really bullish.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just very quickly a quick follow-up.
On the net charge-offs situation are you already thinking the normalized range given how the housings have been going recently? Or do you think the normalized range still holds for the long-term? It's a great question.
Right now we still think it holds.
Again I think it's primarily based on our view of what our mix is.
We still have as Kelly said a big opportunity in our Specialized Lending area and those have higher normalized loses lower stress loss experience.
And so just given the mix that we're trying to originate to we think the 55 to 75 is appropriate.
However as you come through recovery in a cycle it's not abnormal to go under that range for a while.
So we see some opportunity but we still feel comfortable with our long-term range.
We'll move now to Keith Murray with ISI.
Research Division</strong> Could you just spend a minute on the insurance business? Can you just talk about -- are there synergies there whether it relates to wealth management or the corporate lending side of the business that maybe people are missing when you think about the long-term opportunities there? Yes it's a great question.
This is Chris Henson.
We as Daryl said we were down second to third.
But if you really -- you have to really evaluate the insurance business on kind of a common quarter where we were up 6.3%.
We think the market's moving in the kind of 4% to 5% so I think we're probably taking a little bit of market share along the way as well as the pickup in firming.
In terms of synergies I think we got a number of fronts.
Specifically to your question with the wealth business we're actually adding to Kelly's point about revenue initiatives we're adding about 55 or 60 sales reps embedded within our wealth teams.
But our current professionals throughout -- and we're in the middle of a rollout.
We've actually rolled out 8 of our 23 regions at this point.
And it's about a 2.5- 3-year process which we're about 9 months into.
So we've got we think really kind of good upper end opportunity there over the next call it 2.5 years.
And that we believe sort of driven by wealth which is why we're embedding the salespeople there.
And of course we have referrals coming from our Community Bank from all different commercial segments directly to wealth which ultimately leads directly to we believe additional life insurance sales.
And it's not just estate planning we have a lot of buy-sell opportunities and business-transition planning.
So it's a different level of insurance kind of need much more sophisticated larger in case kind of need there.
So we feel really positive about that.
The second synergy we have that Crump brings us is through our institutional channel.
And that really manifests itself a couple of different ways.
One is you have large financial institutions that have client relationships in the wealth business.
If they want to offer more life insurance too they want to kind of get in the business so they outsource it to a business like Crump.
And we have also underwriters in the life business that have been core competencies underwriting and they've had kind of grown a sales arm over the years.
And with the tough economic times they're paring that back and they sort of outsource their revenue arms as well.
So a lot of good upside.
Plus just the firming in price that Daryl commented on earlier typically it comes back to us in wholesale first.
And you can see that in the numbers you see 10.8% improvement currently in wholesale but we're getting about 2% to 3% in retail.
So we still have the benefit of retail to come.
And then finally I would just say when you get 2 or 3 years out you really have sort of the profit commissions that based on sort of historic look-back periods of 2 to 3 years that are sort of all profit that we stand to benefit from a couple of years out.
So a lot of upside there.
Research Division</strong> And then just switching gears to credit.
Obviously the trends continue to get better as you guys showed again this quarter and we've seen it for many other banks.
Just how do you balance that with the OCC is out there kind of making banks think about reserve releases and kind of sounding the alarm that maybe reserves are getting too low.
How do you kind of balance that and how are the regulators dealing with that? It's a very good question Keith.
We do think about that a lot.
Certainly our position on reserves is based upon the models we run and the judgment applied based on that process around the risk levels at the time of the reporting.
So we really haven't changed our process at all it was very disciplined and consistent there.
But just thinking about it I think the regulators are prudent in their fleshing about how fast some of the reserve releases are in the industry.
And I think we do have to listen to them.
And we do -- and just be cautious and prudent as we come through this recovery that we don't overshoot it and release too much.
And so we think about that a lot in our process and feel very good about where we are.
Our next question comes from Kevin Fitzsimmons with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions.
First on fee revenues.
I know you mentioned we're going to get a seasonal balance in insurance mortgage revenues are likely going to continue to decline.
On a net-net basis do we think total fees can actually be stable to up or are we looking at more of a slight decline there? And then secondly Kelly if you can just give us an update on your latest thinking as you guys get later in the year approaching CCAR how you feel about buybacks how you feel about the M&amp;A environment? Okay Kevin.
I'll take the first part of that question.
I think if you look at the seasonality in insurance versus what's happening in mortgage we're going to net benefit in the fourth quarter.
So we should definitely have higher fee income versus third quarter.
We might also have a couple of other one-time gains associated in the first quarter.
But even excluding those gains I think our net fees will be better.
Kevin on the whole CCAR capital M&amp;A question.
Now we think the CCAR process is going to be relatively normalized this year.
And so we don't expect any substantial events around that.
There is still though this downward pressure in terms of banks in terms of dividend payout rates as -- that is kind of out there and so it's -- it will be challenging to raise dividends at a high level because for us as you you'd -- we already have a very high level in terms of payout and dividend yield et cetera.
So that really kind of puts us back to raising our priorities with regard to buybacks/M&amp;A.
Today there's no M&amp;A activity practically possible.
The sellers' prices are too high but most the buyers they're just kind of waiting for more certainty around the regulatory environment.
I personally think that kind of fades as we go through the next year or so.
And I think there will be a number of M&amp;A opportunities out there.
And we certainly have a long list of partners that we would like to join up with.
In the meantime though -- as I mentioned at a recent conference that's -- all of that put together certainly raises the probability of BB&amp;T with regard to buybacks given our relatively strong capital level as we go forward.
We'll move now to Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Daryl I guess a pretty specific question for you given how low your deposit costs have gotten and the fairly flattish trajectory of those costs probably -- in the future you probably can't get those down too much quarter-over-quarter.
Are you thinking -- given that long-term debt now comprises about 2/3 of your interest expense in the third quarter are there any opportunities in that bucket to potentially reduce your funding cost going forward? Yes Matt.
On the deposit cost side we will break under 30 basis points next quarter and they'll probably linger in the high- to mid-20s probably that's kind of the bottom for deposit costs.
As we have maturities in our debt and we basically put on new debt we definitely will reprice our debt cost down from where we are today.
So I do think that is an opportunity should be an opportunity throughout '14 as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Clarke maybe a question for you in terms of the Specialized Lending provision.
That was down year-over-year close to 30% 29% by my calculation.
You've had some pretty solid loan growth assets are up in that unit about 12%.
Can you provide some color as to your thinking about the future provision level the provision ramp in that business and how that might affect the overall provision? It's a great question Matt.
Now if you look at it kind of on a common quarter basis our loss rates even though there's movement within that group in the mix overall loss rates are about the same as they were last year.
And one of the things we really like about these businesses is that while they certainly have higher risk elements it's a more predictable normalized level of risk.
So the -- and you're able to price for that so we just don't have the volatility generally in those businesses that you might even expect.
So for that reason the provisioning is fairly steady in those businesses.
So I think the biggest factor in what actual dollar level of provision will be the growth rates in those businesses.
So we do expect those businesses to grow faster than the core bank.
And accordingly we would expect the provision expense to be higher on a dollar basis as the growth rate goes up.
But on a relative basis be pretty consistent.
We'll move to Gerard Cassidy with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Share with us on your rate sensitivity if rates were to move up say a parallel shift of 100 basis points what that would do to net interest income? Or do you do it for a 200-basis-point shift? But what type of impact would you have on net interest income? Yes if you look at our chart that we have in our deck you could see up 100 basis points -- our net interest income over a 12-month period will be up a little less than 2% and up 200 basis points to a little less than 3%.
And that -- you have to really know what's behind there because there's a lot of key assumptions in there.
Our 2 key drivers for rate sensitivity is really how quickly we will reprice our deposits and how sticky are our deposits because we've had really good growth in our deposits there.
We feel that our assumptions that we have in both categories are very conservative and this reflects pretty good performance for a given rate change and could potentially have some upside if we don't move as quickly as what we have modeled in our rate-sensitivity models.
LLC Research Division</strong> Very good.
And then as a second question when you go to the -- your Specialty Lending area on I think it's Slide 15 the Regional Acceptance had some very nice growth as to the whole area.
Two questions in this area.
Your expansion into California and Minnesota with Regional Acceptance how are you going to do that? How are you going to win new business in markets that I'm assuming your name is not as well-known yet? And second in the rapid growth that you guys are seeing in this Dealer Finance area how can you give us some assurances that there aren't going to be credit issues 2 years down the road? Gerard this is Clarke those are great questions.
I'll take them separately.
The Regional Acceptance business is a non-prime national-based auto-financed business.
And their business model is around -- they really target large MSAs with large auto sales and so it's very calculated data-driven analysis on where we go to market.
And then what we do once we've determined it's a good market play we do hire experienced people that have dealer relationships in those markets.
So on the sourcing side we have very good certainty about the relationships they have.
We're not sending our people into strange territories and then we have very disciplined strict analytics around the risk management and the underwriting.
So it's a very predictable model that we've used for years and years.
We've actually been in California before so this is not a new entry there just new offices.
As far as our Dealer Finance growth in general that's really on the prime auto side.
And so I would just say this we've been more aggressive on the pricing side as far as the growth opportunity there.
We're more conservative on our terms so our advanced rates and our weighted average term and that sort of thing is going to be very conservative relative to industry so we've chosen to compete a little more on spread and definitely not on risk.
We have several more questions in queue.
However we are out of time.
So I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Alan Greer for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you operator.
And I apologize to those folks we didn't get to we will call you shortly.
Thank you for your interest and participating today.
This concludes our call.
Once again that does concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the BB&amp;T Corporation Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Alan Greer Executive Vice President and Director of Investor Relations for BB&amp;T Corporation.
Thank you.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Lisa.
And good morning everyone and thanks to all of our listeners for joining us today.
We have with us today Kelly King our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Daryl Bible our Chief Financial Officer who will review the results for the fourth quarter as well as provide some thoughts for 2014.
We also have other members of our executive management team with us to participate in the Q&amp;A session: Chris Henson our Chief Operating Officer; Ricky Brown the President of Community Banking; and Clarke Starnes our Chief Risk Officer.
We will be referencing a slide presentation during our remarks today.
A copy of the presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental financial information are available on the BB&amp;T website.
Before we begin let me remind you that BB&amp;T does not provide public earnings predictions or forecasts.
However there may be statements made during the course of this call that express management's intentions beliefs or expectations.
BB&amp;T's actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the forward-looking statement warnings in our presentation and our SEC filings.
Our presentation include certain non-GAAP disclosures.
Please refer to Page 2 and the appendix of our presentation for the appropriate reconciliations to GAAP.
And now I will turn it over to our CEO Kelly King.
Thank you Alan.
Good morning everybody and thanks for joining our call.
So overall we had a strong fourth quarter.
Our revenues were up.
Expenses were down.
Credit was great.
And I think importantly we believe the economy has hit kind of a positive pivotal point and I'll talk some about that in a little bit.
So net income totaled $537 million up 6.1% compared to the fourth quarter of '12.
Diluted EPS was $0.75 on a GAAP basis an increase of 5.6% versus the fourth quarter of '12.
For the year we earned $1.6 billion or $2.19 a share.
But remember those results include $519 million in tax adjustments for prior quarters which we've talked to you about.
So if you exclude those adjustments we would have had made $2.19 billion which were record operating earnings.
In the revenue area our total revenue on an FTE basis was $2.4 billion.
It was up 3.9% annualized compared to our Q3.
That was largely based on a seasonally strong quarter for insurance record performances in trust investment banking groups lower deposit cost.
It was substantially offset though by decline in mortgage banking income.
Our fee income ratio did increase to 43.5%.
Regarding loans average balances were down 1.2% on a GAAP basis.
But remember this includes the sale of a subsidiary we discussed in the last quarter.
If you x that sale loans were up slightly consistent with the guidance that we gave at our mid-quarter conference.
Importantly income-producing CRE has turned that's a big story for us and grew 5.2% annualized.
Combined with the residential CRE total CRE grew 3% and this is the first quarter this has turned and grown in 6 years going back to postcrisis.
So that would really help us in 2014.
If you exclude the sale of the subsidiary and related transfer other lending subsidiaries grew 3.5% versus the third quarter even though this is a normally soft quarter for those subsidiaries primarily in insurance premium finance.
Residential mortgage increased 9.8% on a GAAP basis compared to third quarter.
Now we did have the transfer in as part of the subsidiary sale but still that was up 6% excluding those loans.
Deposits had another good quarter.
They did decrease $2 billion or 6.3% overall.
But importantly noninterest-bearing deposits increased $1.1 billion or 12.8% annualized.
And our deposit mix improved and our cost declined 3 basis points to 28 which is what we had indicated earlier in the year.
Credit performance was a really big story for the quarter.
Net charge-offs remained unchanged from third quarter at 0.49% of our average loans and leases.
That is below our long-term estimated normalized charge-off rate.
We are by the way reducing that from 55 to 75 down to 50 to 70 basis point range.
That's due to strong performance and mostly because of the change in our loan mix.
NPLs decreased 9.2%.
NPA has decreased 9.4%.
ALLL coverage improved to 1.73 relative to NPLs up from 1.66.
Expenses was a good story for us.
Noninterest expenses decreased 4% annualized versus the third quarter mostly driven by lower professional services regulatory and other expenses.
In the professional services area they decreased $14 million due to systems- and project-related reductions.
Efficiency ratio improved and we produced positive operating leverage for the fourth quarter.
As we discussed in mid-quarter we believe expenses peaked in 2013 and will decline consistently during all of 2014.
We do expect continued improvement on efficiency ratios throughout the entire year.
If you look at Slide 4 with me there are just a couple of unusual items this quarter.
The subsidiary sale again which we mentioned on the third quarter did occur.
We had a $31 million pretax gain $19 million after tax so that was about a $0.03 positive impact on EPS.
We did have a relatively small but a meaningful number of merger-related restructuring charges some related to the subsidiary sale.
It's about $10 million pretax and that was about $0.01 negative to our EPS.
So if you look at Slide 5 a few more comments in regards to loans.
Loans were down as I said 1.2% on GAAP but that includes the mortgage warehouse being down seasonality and the sub sale.
So if you x the sub sale they were flat.
It's really up 0.3% with some real positive improving trends which I'll talk about.
If you x the sub sale and the decline in mortgage warehouse loans were up actually 1.5% which is kind of a look at kind of an operating or a normalized kind of look at loan growth.
C&amp;I was flat excluding mortgage warehouse even though in a GAAP basis it's down 3.6% from the third.
CRE as I indicated was strong.
Other -- CRE other experienced solid growth of 5.2%.
We had some good performance in some key retail areas: 11.9% growth in sales finance; 8.4% in revolving credit; 9.8% in residential mortgage again 6% if you exclude the loan transfer.
Excluding the sale of the subsidiary and the related transfer loans in other lending subsidiaries increased 3.5%.
That was led by Sheffield up 11.8%; equipment finance up 17.5%; Grandbridge up 7.4%; and Regional Acceptance up 5.4%.
So a little more commentary for you with regard to the loan area.
As I said we are seeing some real positive points.
Just a macro perspective to begin with.
We really believe we are at a pivotal point in the economy.
Admittedly that's substantially intuitive but I am meaningfully more positive about where we are and where we're going today than say 90 and certainly 120 days ago.
So what are the reasons for that? Well first of all we had better job growth over the last several months.
I know December was down but we think that was a fluke.
The budget deal in Congress we think was a really big deal.
And then psychology matters in situations like this.
So people have been feeling bad for 6 years.
There's a natural psychological reaction when you go through a period like that where you just kind of want to feel better.
And it doesn't take too much positive news to make you feel better and this is what we're beginning to see.
People need to invest.
A lot of small- medium-sized companies particularly have not invested in growing stock equipment automation equipment for 5 6 years and they need to invest.
The global environment is more stable and we're seeing some positive signs in terms of growth in terms of the eurozone and other areas.
The stock market is much better.
So there's just a long list of positives that I think are pretty meaningful in terms of how you ought to think about where we are.
Just those -- just in the last couple of days I just picked up some things like for example the World Bank says that global economy is at a turning point.
Wall Street Journal just yesterday or maybe it was Tuesday had an article that said "Why Business Investment Could Break Out." Kiplinger just yesterday said "Calmer waters lie ahead for the economy".
So there's some pretty positive indicators out there.
I'm not trying to say it's perfect and I'm not trying to say we've had a 180-degree turn.
I just simply think we'd made a turn and that's a big deal.
And I think that '14 is more positive productivity and production as we go forward.
Nonetheless whatever happens to the macroeconomic condition is what it's going to be.
What we're really focused on is what we can do to execute on our strategies to grow faster than the market.
There are just a number of those to give you some comfort in terms of our optimism.
On the second half of the fourth quarter we definitely saw a meaningful positive change in loan activity.
We ended 2013 particularly second half of the fourth quarter with the best momentum I've seen in just a number of quarters.
Growth in CRE as I described was led by stronger performance in office properties hotel motel retail.
And we also continue to have good growth in multifamily.
So we expect CRE to have a meaningful positive growth in 2014.
Runoff in key portfolios improved.
That's a big thing mathematically in terms of loan growth.
Community Banking runoff in December was the lowest in sometime.
Single-family runoff which is a smaller portfolio now is beginning to stabilize.
Mortgage warehouse lending stabilized in December.
So mathematically as these portfolios stabilize and runoffs subside that makes a positive kick in terms of the growth.
Our CRE specialist strategy has produced 5 consecutive months of growth and continues to gain momentum across our footprint.
To give you perspective on that in the fourth quarter end-of-period annualized growth was 12%.
And we have unfunded construction loans at about $1 billion.
ABL asset base financing has been restructured added additional resources.
That's a big big potential for us as we go into 2014.
Key new markets of Texas Florida Alabama are gaining traction really positive momentum there.
Dealer floor plan doubled commitments during 2014.
We have a $800 million pipeline.
Large corporate initiatives including new offices in California Chicago Ohio and New York.
We've added a food and ag specialty group all improved focus during last -- latter part of last year and heading into this year.
So we're gaining a lot of momentum in all of those areas.
And we're selectively increasing our hold [ph] positions in some large corporate opportunities which is positive as well.
Equipment finance is a big opportunity for us as it's experiencing strong growth and we're really focusing on that in the large corporate space.
We've reinstituted our fixed rate owner-occupied program which is very well received by our people in the Community Bank and we have more focus on pricing in government finance which produced very positive results in Q4.
So looking forward for the first quarter we expect average loans to grow between 2% and 3% and to accelerate in the second quarter as our more seasonal loan categories like insurance premium finance and Sheffield really begin to kick into the seasonal growth.
So loan growth is still going to be tough lots of competition but we are optimistic as we head into '14.
Looking at Slide 6.
With regard to deposits we had a good quarter for deposits as we continue to execute a mix of strategies.
We had noninterest-bearing DDA up 12.8%.
Interest checking is up 3% fourth to third.
Money market and savings up 5.1%.
Now CD is another type that was down substantially 61% $3.9 billion but that was a conscious strategy.
A lot of that is large corporate CDs not out of the Community Bank and so that was a part of our mix change and our cost control.
Speaking of cost control we're making really good progress.
We had told you at the beginning of the year we thought we could break 0.30%.
We did.
We got down to 0.28% 3 basis points better than 0.31% for the third and 10 better than the fourth quarter of last year.
So nice improvement there.
I would point out these costs are likely to kind of flatten at this kind of level.
We have new liquidity requirements and so we want to keep our mix of deposits really diversified.
So look for that to be kind of flattish it might be down a little bit more but kind of flattish.
And so we expect continued growth in all client deposit categories during 2014 as we continue to focus on penetrating the client market.
So that's a little bit of color there.
Daryl is going to give you a lot more detail.
Now let me turn it over to him.
Daryl? Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
I'm going to talk about credit quality net interest margin fee income noninterest expense capital and our segment reporting.
Continuing on Slide 7.
We continue to see significant improvement in credit driving lower costs.
Fourth quarter net charge-offs excluding covered were $141 million or 49 basis points.
This is essentially flat compared to the third quarter but down 52% compared to the fourth quarter 2012.
We are updating and reducing our previous charge-off guidance to 50 to 70 basis points based on the change in the loan mix.
For the foreseeable future we believe charge-offs will remain below 50 basis points assuming no significant deterioration in the economy.
Net performing assets excluding covered declined 9.4% during the fourth quarter and represent our lowest NPAs as a percentage of total assets in 6 years.
We continue to expect NPAs to improve at a modest pace in the first quarter.
Turning to Slide 8.
As you can see commercial NPA inflows dropped 33% which led to the lower provision.
As expected delinquent loans increased modestly due to seasonal factors.
However total commercial watch list was down 9%.
Also our allowance to nonperforming loans increased from 1.66x to 1.73x reflecting strong coverage.
We had a reserve release of $70 million during the quarter compared to last quarter's $52 million due to continued credit improvement.
Continuing on Slide 9.
Margin came in at 3.56% down 12 basis points from the third quarter.
Core margin came in at 3.34%.
The drivers for margin declines are the sale of a consumer lending subsidiary lower rates on new earning assets and a decline in covered asset yields.
These declines were offset by lower funding costs and favorable funding and asset mix changes.
Looking at margin for the first quarter.
We expect a decline of approximately 5 basis points.
The decline in margin guidance results from a larger investment portfolio driven by the new liquidity rules and lower yields on earning assets.
The factors will be partially offset by continued improved funding costs.
We grew the investment portfolio to $40 billion at year-end and it should remain at this level throughout 2014.
In light of that we expect core margin to be relatively stable after the first quarter.
Lastly we became less asset-sensitive due to the increase in the investment portfolio.
However we continue to remain well positioned for rising rates.
Turning to Slide 10.
Our fee income ratio for the fourth quarter increased to 43.5% which is driven mostly by insurance investment banking and brokerage and other income offset by the decline in mortgage banking.
Insurance income was $16 million more than the third quarter mostly due to normal seasonal factors.
Investment banking and brokerage had a record quarter of $101 million an increase of $12 million.
Other income reflects 2 items: a $31 million net gain on the sale of the consumer lending subsidiary and an increase of $18 million in income from assets related to certain post-employment benefits which is offset in personnel costs.
Finally mortgage banking income declined $17 million primarily due to lower gains on sale lower volumes tighter pricing and the retention of mortgage loans on the balance sheet.
Total gain on sale decreased from 89 basis points in the third quarter to 55 basis points in the fourth quarter.
Even with lower mortgage revenues we expect to see positive net growth in fee income in 2014.
Looking at Slide 11.
We achieved positive operating leverage which drove the efficiency ratio slightly lower this quarter.
Total noninterest expense decreased $15 million or 4% annualized compared to the third quarter.
Professional services declined $14 million reflecting lower legal costs and a decrease in project expenses.
Other expense decreased $14 million reflecting lower insurance-related expenses and the impact of the lower cost or market adjustments on owned real estate recorded in the third quarter.
Personnel expense increased $22 million compared to the third quarter.
This increase is largely due to the increase in post-employment benefit expense which is offset in other income and higher production-related incentives and commissions.
FTEs were essentially flat compared to last quarter.
Merger-related and restructuring charges were $6 million higher than last quarter partially due to restructuring expenses from the subsidiary sale.
Our expenses have been elevated due to a number of projects that ultimately make us a better company.
Therefore our noninterest expense peaked in 2013 and we expect the trend to be lower throughout 2014.
As Kelly said we continue to forecast an efficiency ratio in the mid-50s by the end of this year.
Finally our effective tax rate for the quarter was 29.2%.
We expect a similar rate in the first quarter of 2014.
Turning to Slide 12.
Capital ratios remained strong and are up from the third quarter with Tier 1 common at 9.9% and Tier 1 of 11.8%.
Also our estimated Basel III common equity Tier 1 ratio is 9.6%.
Now here are a few highlights from our segment disclosures beginning on Slide 13.
Community Bank net income totaled $275 million showing growth for both the linked and common quarters.
Loan momentum picked up late in the quarter with linked-quarter commercial production up 61%.
CRE and other nonresidential loans grew 6.4% compared to the third quarter.
Dealer floor plan loans increased more than 100% compared to last quarter.
Turning to Slide 14.
Residential mortgage income was $27 million down due to the decline in loan production and tighter margins versus prior quarters.
The mix in refi and purchase activity was 32% and 68% respectively.
Looking at Dealer Financial Services Slide 15.
Net income was $49 million for the quarter.
We continue to generate strong production with common-quarter loan originations up 15%.
Regional Acceptance our non-prime subsidiary generated mid-single-digit loan growth and maintains strong risk-adjusted yields.
Operating margin for this segment improved to 46.5% compared to last year.
On Slide 16 our Specialized Lending segment experienced another solid quarter with net income of $71 million.
Average common-quarter loans grew modestly due to the subsidiary sale.
However the segment showed strong performances from Sheffield premium finance commercial finance and equipment finance.
Moving to Slide 17.
BB&amp;T Insurance Services generated $49 million of net income up $27 million linked quarter due to seasonality mostly driven by organic growth in wholesale and lower expenses last quarter.
EBITDA margins increased to 24.5% this quarter.
Turning to Slide 18.
Our Financial Services segment generated $87 million of net income driven by corporate banking and wealth with loan growth of 17% and 23% respectively.
Total assets invested increased to $111 billion or 16% compared to fourth quarter 2012.
As we enter 2014 based on what we see today we are planning for additional credit improvement expense leverage positive loan momentum and strong fee income production.
And with that let me turn it back to Kelly for the closing remarks and Q&amp;A.
Thank you Daryl.
So I hope you can see why we feel like it was a strong fourth quarter and feel positive as we go forward: revenue up expenses down credit was great better economic forecast excellent momentum in loan growth and expense reduction.
So we are very optimistic as we head into 2014.
And now Alan I'll turn it over to you.
Thank you Kelly.
Now we will move to the Q&amp;A session.
In a moment I will ask Lisa to come back on the line and explain how you may participate in that process.
[Operator Instructions] With that Lisa I'd ask you to come back on and explain how people can participate in the Q&amp;A process.
[Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Michael Rose from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get some clarification on the fee income growth this year.
Does that include or exclude the gain from the sale of the subsidiary? So you're talking about the fourth quarter Michael? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
You mentioned year-over-year fee income would be higher.
Does that include the sale of the subsidiary or not? When we look at that we're actually carving out the onetime items like the sale of the subsidiary and also the lost share impact as well as any gains on securities.
So if you take the gains on securities in '13 we had about $50 million.
We have $31 million in this gain on subsidiary.
So kind of washes each other out.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just switching over to loan growth.
Maybe this one could be for Kelly.
Can you give us some context by market? And maybe what Texas will contribute as we move into 2014? Yes.
Michael I think we have fortunately a number of areas that we're very bullish about.
Certainly we're continuing to build out and get a reasonable penetration in Florida and Alabama and Atlanta area.
But Texas is specifically kind of a unique opportunity for us.
We opened 30 commercial de novo operations there this year.
We just added 21 from the Citi acquisition.
So we have a total of 80 locations there now and the momentum is absolutely fantastic.
Our value proposition is playing extremely well in Texas.
Texas is growing rapidly as you know.
So I'm not hanging everything on Texas but it's a really big opportunity for us.
But we have a large range of other loan initiatives that will supercede all of these.
So overall it looks very positive.
And we will take our next question from Betsy Graseck from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to hone in a little bit on the expense ratio because I know that's a big part of the lift as we're thinking about earnings into next year.
And I know Daryl you talked about a couple of the initiatives that you have underway.
But maybe you could describe how we should be expecting the expense ratio is going to migrate throughout 2014.
And if you could talk a little bit about what you did this quarter to kind of drive that forward expense reduction that is coming.
Yes.
I think as you look at 2014 Betsy we should have continued improvement each quarter in the efficiency ratio.
The line items that I would say would have the most impact from a point-to-point basis in 2014 would be in personnel costs professional costs regulatory costs.
All those will be down throughout 2014.
As far as what you saw in the fourth quarter I would tell you that some of our projects that we initiated back in the second quarter of '13 have come to completion and they're starting to wind down.
So some of those costs are coming out of our numbers in the fourth quarter.
We still have some costs that are going on that will stay with our company through '14.
But some of those costs will start to fall off as well.
There's many projects but I think we're starting to see positive traction of these costs as projects get completed.
Research Division</strong> And what's your sense just on regulatory expenses year-on-year? I mean clearly you had some uptick in expenses in '13 due to CCAR et cetera.
Do you feel like that's going to be a meaningful contributor to expense reduction in '14? I would say it would definitely add several pennies to our number for '14 versus '13.
We had a lot of third-party help with CCAR specifically.
We have some third party helping us with some of our system convergence around some of our projects that we have today.
So those are 8-digit numbers and as those get completed those should start to fade away.
And we will take our next question from John Pancari from Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> On the expense side how much of that improvement in the efficiency ratio getting you to that mid-50s by the fourth quarter how much of that would you say does come from the expense base overall versus top line relief? So if you look at -- we still have a headwind in net interest income due to the covered portfolio.
I mean if you back out net interest income for the purchase accounting impact actually net interest income would be up year-over-year a couple of percent.
But if you just look at it on a GAAP basis that's down.
And if you take that and match that against our fee income essentially revenues will be flattish for '14 versus '13.
We have expense projections that should be down probably a couple of percent 3-plus percent or so on a year-over-year basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right that's helpful.
And then my second question is just around the pace of loan growth.
I know you gave pretty good color around the expectation for 2% to 3% growth in the first quarter.
Can you talk about the pace of growth as you go through 2014 just given your color that you provided around loan demand there Kelly? It certainly sounds like it should strengthen.
So can you give us an idea how we should think about that pace of growth as we go through '14? Yes.
So I think John it will continue to build.
Part of that like in the second would be because of the seasonality and -- factors.
But also if our projection is right which we could be wrong if our production is right that the economy improves then that will have a number of positive impacts.
For example companies start investing they'll start drawing down on their lines utilizing them more.
We'll have new opportunities.
We'll continue to execute on our wealth strategy our corporate banking strategies et cetera.
And so I think you could see a meaningful increase in our loan growth as we head through the year.
We certainly are not talking about 8% or 10% kind of loan growth but I wouldn't be a bit surprised if we ended up at year-end in the 5% kind of range.
So I'm not trying to signal that I think the market is getting ready to boom and take off.
I don't think that's realistic.
But it is getting better and our strategies are really coming into execution phase and it's going to make a meaningful difference for us.
And we will take our next question from Keith Murray from ISI.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to check on any line utilization update meaning the expectation and growth that you're seeing in loans.
Do you expect to see corporations pulling lines down? Or do you feel like you need to see them use some of their own cash first that they built on their balance sheet before you sort of get a real pickup in loan growth? Keith this is Clarke Starnes.
That's a great question.
So far our growth outlook and experience has been more around new production.
Utilization is still flat so we haven't hit the point yet where companies are starting to draw down.
They're still using their cash first.
So our utilization rates are still in the mid- to high-30s.
They have not really moved yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if you could just give an update.
You did the Citi branch deal in Texas.
Given what regulators are -- the headaches they're making the banks go through on M&amp;A deals are you seeing other opportunities just on branch deals in the footprint that you find attractive? Keith I think that you will likely see a number of more opportunities like that as some of the larger companies domestic and internationally kind of tweak or substantially modify their strategies around capital requirements and liquidity requirements and other regulatory issues.
So I personally expect you will see a fair amount of that nationally as we go forward.
We're certainly going to look at any that makes sense.
The Citi type of acquisition is kind of ideal in this environment because you get assets liabilities and really good employees in really good markets.
So yes I would expect more of that as we go forward.
And we'll take our next question from Steve Scinicariello from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just want to follow-up on the strong performance on the insurance/brokerage side.
I know there's some seasonality in the fourth quarter but just kind of curious on of some of the trends because I think in the slides you mentioned improving market conditions as well.
So I just wanted to kind of get a little more color on what we might be able to see in terms of continued growth in that segment as you look ahead in 2014.
Right.
Great question.
In the fourth quarter we had good solid performance from our Madria [ph] which is our sort of upper-end segment retailer as well as our MGU or managing general underwriter as they've been allocated a little bit more capacity by the underwriting companies.
When I think about '14 I think what you -- we run -- our current run rate for the year was about 4.7% same-store sales.
And I think the market is probably going to edge down a bit in -- just a shade in price probably in the 3% to 4%.
We've been 4% to 5% in '13 probably more like 3% to 4%.
We think -- given our momentum and kind of where we are today we think for us it's probably a 5% to 6% kind of growth opportunity.
Retail is probably in the 3% to 4% range.
Wholesale is probably in the 6% to 9% range.
So overall we think 5% to 6% is kind of what we look for with good outsized performance from wholesale specifically in the MGU.
Research Division</strong> Perfect perfect.
And then second question I had is just in terms of kind of the effects from kind of resizing or readjusting the investment portfolio due to the upcoming liquidity requirements.
Just kind of looking ahead I mean so now that you've kind of hit that $40 billion kind of level should we expect kind of a little less I don't know margin headwind as we go forward since you're kind of where you need to be? Yes.
I think that's exactly right Steve.
If you look at our slides we're going to go down in margin in the first quarter mainly due to the increased size of the investment portfolio because it's going to be on the books for the whole quarter from an average basis.
But if you really look at core margin we didn't have the sale of our consumer lending subsidiary our -- we're basically our core margin is relatively flat now.
So I would expect core margin after we adjust for the size of the investment portfolio to be flat for the rest of '14.
The steeper yield curve our credit spreads that we're achieving now and our loans that we're putting on the books are definitely kicking in such that it's not having as much pressure on us and we still have maybe just a little bit more funding costs to come down.
So I think core margins overall can stay where they are after we adjust in the first quarter.
And we'll take our next question from Ken Usdin from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you can talk to us a bit a little bit about just credit quality and the outlook.
Obviously the metrics all look very good and you continue to have a decent release probably a bigger-than-expected one.
So was there any specific release related to the loan sale? And what do you think the pace of reserve release can continue to look like? Ken this is Clarke.
That's a good question.
Specifically there were 20 -- there was $27 million of reserves that transferred with the acquired loans.
So that was -- net of that and the covered position the release was $70 million versus $52 million in the third.
So $70 million is kind of more comparable to what happened in the third quarter.
What drove that release was continued improvement in the credit quality big improvement in the commercial portfolio and rundown of some of the older high-risk manages.
And so we continue to see improvement as we look forward and certainly that would impact probably the reserves at least in the near term.
So hopefully we'll continue to get a benefit from that in the provision.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And my second one is just regarding CCAR and the continued improvements you guys have made on the process and with Basel III up to 9.6% can you just talk to us a little bit about just your general framework about balancing capital return this year against that potential you mentioned earlier Kelly about opportunities potentially coming up on the M&amp;A side.
Yes.
So Ken I think things are settling down with regard to -- certainly with regard to us in the whole CCAR area.
Obviously '13 was a year of regrouping and reinvesting.
So I view that as kind of stabilizing as we go forward.
Certainly we are being conservative with regard to our capital position.
As we see the rules settle down as we see the CCAR process stabilize it certainly does put us in a position of strength that allows for looking forward being able to take advantage of some of these opportunities that do come along.
We've always said we want to have capital for organic growth first and dividends and -- but also then take advantage of opportunities like the Citi deal that kind of came along or the Crump Insurance deal last year.
And so we want to remain relatively conservative and keep some powder dry so that we'll be in a position to take advantage of those.
And we'll take our next question from Sameer Gokhale with Janney Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple.
The first one I had was just in thinking about the auto business and loan originations I would say across the industry have been quite strong loan growth.
But at what point do you feel that you need to dial back on growth there? And I understand that auto sales have been strong and that's been part of the reason that growth has been strong for loans.
But everyone is talking about the pricing pressure and it seems like this is a perfect sort of environment in terms of credit.
Used-car values are up.
So at what point do you say "Let's dial back on auto originations"? Just because the used-car values have fallen and maybe that's a leading indicator that things might slow down there? So some perspective there would be helpful.
From a credit quality perspective we are being very disciplined.
While auto sales have driven big originations we've avoided the temptation to extend term or lower advance rates or allow increased backing of a lot of those structural elements which we do see in the marketplace.
We have not changed our underwriting so that will naturally impact our volume if others chose -- or choose to go that route.
And then -- so the bigger consideration for us is if -- whether we can get an appropriate margin.
And right now we still feel that the pricing we're doing that is still attractive for us but we're going to stay very disciplined about that risk-and-return decision.
This is Ricky Brown.
Too on the wholesale side of the business remember it was very small for us relative to the size of our overall retail piece.
And so while we're expanding that it's still very very high-quality dealers with growth rates fast but we were not very large in it.
So it's just sort of getting to a size that makes some sense for us.
So we're not outsized in that part of the business at all.
So it makes me feel really good about sort of the direction of your question about how we're positioned.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just the other question was for your residential mortgage banking business.
I mean gain-on-sale margins are only 55 basis points.
Is that -- how does that factor into your thinking about selling loans versus retaining more of them on balance sheet? How do you think of the trade-off there given the low gain-on-sale margins? Sameer that's a great question.
We did make the decision last -- late last quarter to start portfolio in the 10- and 15-year.
I think as we look out and look at the margins that we're getting on gain on sale we're looking for other opportunities to put on the balance sheet.
There is huge emphasis in jumbo both fixed and ARMs and we're having a lot of success in the wealth area attracting those products.
So I think as you see margins on gain on sale continue to shrink I think we will put more and more on our balance sheet.
We'll take our next question from Erika Najarian from BoA Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just had 1 follow-up question.
You've been extremely clear on your outlook for 2014.
You're very positive on loan growth and clearly the core margin is stabilizing.
I guess I wonder as I look out farther into 2015 will 2014 mark an inflection point in your GAAP NII in that some of the positive momentum that's happening with growth is going to show through in 2015? I guess the straight question is can NII grow in 2015? Yes.
I believe it can Erika.
If you actually look at the covered assets we got positive net interest income of about $120 million this quarter.
This time next year so fourth quarter of '14 it's down to about $60 million.
So the headwinds are significantly less as we enter into '15.
So I think depending on how strong the economy is and what type of growth but if we're able to grow loans in the 5% to 6% range in '15 I think we will definitely have positive net interest income growth for '15.
And Erika I would just add if you kind of look at '13 and '14 for our company they really are 2 of the toughest years that we've had because of the decline in the Colonial income because of buildup in expenses during '13 with regard to some of the process and project improvements et cetera.
But really as we move through '14 and the Colonial drag dissipates as the loan growth strategies become better executed as the economy gets better.
I don't want to predict -- '15 is too far out.
But I'll be honest yes I feel pretty doggone good about it.
We'll take our next question from Kevin Fitzsimmons from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Kelly I just wanted to follow up on Ken's question from earlier on CCAR.
Specifically I think what we've heard you say in past quarters is that the dividend has probably not got too much room for increasing given where the payout is it's already on the high end.
And buybacks are typically at the low end of your priority spectrum but probably gets a little more elevated given the state of large bank M&amp;A that it's -- it appears at least from our vantage point is still pretty much closed.
But the stocks have increased.
So where are buybacks right now in your frame of mind? Are they -- is it -- because I haven't heard it mentioned and I've heard you mention about keeping your powder dry.
So are buybacks something that you would characterize as less of a priority versus several months ago? So Kevin you're right.
All of these factors kind of move around and you have to kind of adjust your thinking as you go.
But as I sit here today you're right the dividend posture has to be relatively conservative in terms of increases but we're already aggressive overall and have been throughout the whole crisis.
Our long-term view is the buybacks are kind of our last priority in terms of utilization of capital as we've described consistently.
When you do not have M&amp;A activity and other factors change it can cause that to rise.
And what I've said previously is that given the current environment that would cause buybacks to tend to rise somewhat.
On the other hand if we think specifically about '14 as I've said I do think it's wise right now to keep some powder dry in terms of potential opportunities.
Whether it's whole bank deals or partial bank deals we think there will be opportunities there.
And then frankly coming off of '13 CCAR we want to be very conservative this year with regard to all of that.
And so as I've said I think you can expect us to have a very conservative ask [ph] as we think about CCAR for '14.
Now the likely result of that would be material buildup in capital based on good solid earnings which positions us as we go through the year and especially as we look to '15 to have more powder dry for acquisition opportunities and/or a more aggressive strategy with regard to buybacks.
We'll take our next question from Kevin Barker from Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could you talk about the competitive pressures you're seeing in mortgage banking given you've reported a significant decline in gain-on-sale margins while some of the largest banks reported a significant increase in margins? Was a lot of that due to channel mix? Or could you just give us some color around why the margins were down significantly in this quarter? Yes.
So Kevin if you look at mix of mortgage originations when we shifted more towards the correspondent piece this quarter there was about 3 quarters of production.
So with that higher mix here that kind of drove the spreads down.
We did see some deterioration however though in retail.
We -- our retail spreads are about 180 overall.
But I would say the majority of it was driven by the mix change.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a follow-up regarding some of the loans you're keeping on balance sheet.
Are you expecting to keep 30-year fixed potentially conforming loans on balance sheet given the competitive pressures in mortgage banking? And would you be making non-QM loans? So I'll answer the balance sheet question first and then Clark can kick in on the non-QM.
As far as -- we always traditionally have kept ARMs on our balance sheet.
We've done that historically.
We made a decision late last quarter to keep the 10- and 15-year.
Historically we've also always kept our jumbo 30-year.
Those tend to prepay a little bit faster.
They are convex but it's not a significant portion of the mix overall.
So I think 30-year conventional we continue to sell those out into the marketplace.
But the majority of what we're balance sheet-ing are 10- and 15-year and ARMs with a little bit of 30-year jumbo.
Kevin as far as the non-QM right now our forecast is that our non-QM production is fairly modest probably about 5%.
We're primarily a QM lender.
But we do see some potentially attractive opportunities to do some non-QM loans in a very safe manner primarily in our wealth segment.
But Kevin just to echo that as you've heard some others say we are not going to be QM-constrained in terms of meeting the needs of our clients.
And we're arguably as Clark said primarily QM but that -- the QM really frankly allows you to meet most of the needs of your clients.
And so there will be some unusual needs from some wealth clients and small business clients and people like that and we'll be very supportive in terms of making non-QMs and holding them on the balance sheet.
So it's really -- as it turns out we don't think it's going to get in the way of production and meeting our clients' needs.
And I will tell you that the books are still to be written with regard to the ultimate cost of servicing loans from a QM point of view for us and everybody else.
But the production side seems to be pretty benign in terms of any negative impact.
And we'll take our next question from Brian Foran from Autonomous Research.
I was wondering if you could come back to the comment about the asset sensitivity related to the LCR and I definitely don't want to lose sight of the fact that regardless of what happens rising rates is a positive.
But as you think about the kind of prospective in a normal rising rate environment you'd kind of expect to see loan growth in excess of deposit growth for the industry that would seem to pressure people's LCR ratios.
The LCR ratios as currently written seem pretty harsh so maybe that moderates a little bit.
But how do you think about that interplay? Is there risk that deposit betas and funding cost betas are higher this cycle because of that LCR dynamic? And is that something that would be a rounding error for your asset sensitivity and the industry's? Or is it something that's maybe a little bit bigger deal? Yes.
That's a great question Brian.
On the LCR piece you are correct that is not final yet.
We are moving in a direction to be in compliance -- well in compliance by the end of next year.
In order to accomplish that we have to continue to change the mix of our portfolio to 0 risk-weighted assets and really focus on growing our client deposits which we will accomplish successfully in '14.
But when you look at rate sensitivity the 2 biggest drivers to our rate sensitivity are how quickly they reprice so the beta that you talked about and then how sticky are the deposits.
From a beta perspective we have been very conservative.
We have priced in a faster beta than what's been historically standard.
If you look historically if the Fed moves 100 basis points on average the non-maturity buckets move about 50% give or take 5% or 10%.
We're closer to the 70% to 80% beta there so I think we're conservative there.
If we don't have to move quite as fast then we could actually show a little bit more asset sensitivity than what's in our disclosures today.
The other piece though is how sticky are the deposits.
We've had tremendous growth in our core deposits throughout the last 4 or 5 years.
It is very difficult to model how sticky those deposits are.
We actually put in our disclosures the sensitivity analysis if we lose some of that core funding how that impacts our asset sensitivity.
And if you lose approximately $5 billion I'm not saying we're going to lose but if you lose $5 billion of core funding it cuts our sensitivity about in half.
So if you put it all together and look at the betas plus how sticky the deposits are we are asset-sensitive.
The degree of how asset-sensitive we are is really hard to really peg right now because of the factors I just mentioned.
But it could be positive or it could be slight; it really depends on how sticky it is and how quickly we reprice.
Brian I would just add 1 point with regard to the stickiness.
Really during '12 and '13 working through our Colonial and BankAtlantic acquisitions we've really exited a lot of the less sticky deposits frankly focusing on cost control.
And many of them were not very -- totally client committed deposits anyway.
And so while it's hard to know exactly what the betas will be and the stickiness I would say that we jettisoned on an awful lot of the non-sticky deposits already.
That's really helpful.
And 1 follow-up -- or I guess a 2-part follow-up on expenses both more mechanical.
For those of us who kind of primarily drive things off of GAAP efficiency ratio quarter-by-quarter can you just remind us -- you gave a very detailed breakdown which is always helpful on Page 26.
What's the normal difference between GAAP and the reported? Because some of -- intangible amortization is always there but some of the merger charges and OREO presumably comes down over time.
So is it 150 bps a good guess between the difference between those 2? And then also when you talk about the efficiency ratio kind of coming down over the course of the year are we at the point where it's clear it will come down kind of sequentially each quarter first quarter will be lower than fourth et cetera? Or should we still build in some risk of lumpiness from project expense and things like that? Okay.
Brian if you look at our tables that we published in the back section on the Page 22 on the tables we do a reconciliation of GAAP to our reported efficiency ratio.
So you can kind of see the difference there.
This past quarter it's about 1.2% difference between our reported efficiency versus GAAP.
The main drivers of it you mentioned a couple of them is last year impact of OREO our adjustments on real estate and intangible amortization.
Those are the ones that get adjusted for it but you can kind of see a quarterly trend if you look on Page 22 from that perspective.
As far as the trend of the efficiency ratio goes it's hard to peg if it's going to be perfect line down.
We definitely think the trajectory is going to be point-to-point down.
How quickly each quarter is really depends on the revenue growth that we have coupled with our expenses that are finishing up and coming off.
It's a downward trajectory.
It's just hard to actually say it's going to be a smooth line.
It will come down but it's not going to be very linear.
It would probably be bouncing around a little bit but the trajectory is down.
We'll take our next question from Gaston Ceron from Morningstar Equity Research.
Research Division</strong> Just very quickly I wanted to go back to the Texas expansion issue that you discussed earlier on your process with the state.
After the branch acquisition deal obviously your market share in the state is moving up.
I'm curious what you -- how you see the pathway to getting that into kind of a top 5 area.
Yes.
Thank you Gaston.
We feel very good about what's been going on in Texas.
As Kelly said very good deposit growth.
Loan growth has been very good.
The 30-branch activity has been very good from a deposit perspective.
It's caused a big ripple in activity for commercial lending real estate lending as well and we feel really good about the momentum that we've got in Texas.
As we think about going forward we expect that momentum to continue.
We see real estate opportunities.
The auto business has been very good to us.
So we think that Texas can continue to be good and the marketplace continues to be good.
In terms of the 21 Citi branches we will integrate those.
They fit very nicely.
They look very much like the demographics of our 30-branch expansion so that's really good from a -- fitting into our commercial focus in Texas that's positive.
It's going to give us a lot more exposure.
We're getting some good bankers that are coming along with it.
That's a good thing.
And then in terms of just the future obviously we've gone from 53rd in market share when we started to now in the top 20.
We'd like to be in the top 5.
There's a long way from the top 20 to the top 5 in Texas so we're gonna have to look for opportunities.
We're going to keep our eye open.
But we've said we're going to be focused on strategic importance and making sure we buy something that's not too risky and also something that makes sense from an accretion perspective.
So we're going to be disciplined but we know we're going to have to do things.
And those things will open up as we go forward.
So Texas is still going to be a very bullish story for BB&amp;T going forward and I'm excited about it.
Research Division</strong> And lastly just any particular markets within the state that look particularly appealing? Or...
I would say if you think about where we are in Texas today we're in the big cities: Dallas Houston San Antonio and Austin.
And now we're picking up College Station-Bryan a good market.
That's where about 20 million of the 26.5 million people in Texas live so we're where you want to be.
Now we just got to build out that framework.
So we think that where we've targeted is the right place.
But as we look forward to potential acquisitions it actually might round us out because we can find some more rural to go along with the urban to really get a more balanced sense out over time.
But I feel good where we're positioned because we're where the business is today.
And -- but we're going to be open to other avenues in Texas to get the growth we need.
And we'll take our next question from Nancy Bush NAB Research LLC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kelly certainly you're more optimistic about the economy than you've been in a long time but the outlook for the Southeast still seems to be kind of spotty.
Can you just tell us what you see going on there and whether the construction -- the lessening of construction activity which has been sort of a damper there is kind of easing up at this point? Could you just talk sort of an industry basis about what you're seeing? Yes.
So Nancy again I am more optimistic and I've described earlier kind of the macro views as to why I am.
Specific on the Southeast construction has been as you pointed out several years ago a real drag.
Obviously it was a big factor for all of the Southeast banks.
That is definitely turning.
The fact is the data is just basically no single-family lots available and houses hadn't been built for several years.
So that is turning.
There's -- still babies are being born and people want to move up in housing so there's a growing demand for single-family element construction.
Manufacturing is going to be a pretty big factor in the Southeast over the next several years.
With the sea-change and energy cost of this country with the relative dollar change and relative low cost of operation and the union situation in the Southeast manufacturing is going to be really strong.
And so if you put together a combination of construction across the board retail and multifamily and manufacturing I think you'll see the Southeast over the next 2 to 3 years substantially stronger than a lot of people think.
LLC Research Division</strong> You had mentioned competitive conditions in lending.
Could you just elaborate on that a little bit? Is it price? Is it structure? Is it both? And sort of what percentage or what amount is coming from the Community Banking segment? So the competitive structure Nancy is as tight as I've ever seen it and not surprisingly.
I suppose we're all coming off of a difficult period and everybody is looking for net interest income.
So it's tough.
It's probably a mix between -- equally between price and structure.
I've been somewhat surprised and disappointed though how much slippage there has been on structure.
The pricing I kind of understand.
The structure is hard to understand but it's been pretty broad-based on pricing and structure.
And so the volumes that we're growing -- we're getting a lot of growth in our Specialized Lending businesses and in our corporate strategy which as you know is a national strategy.
The Community Bank over the last 18 months 24 months has been relatively soft for us as the construction lending and all that has really domiciled in our Community Bank.
But that is really getting ready to change.
Rick has got some aggressive strategies in terms of asset-based lending strategies equipment financing strategies.
As I said residential and multifamily is still -- or multifamily is still strong.
Residential is coming on.
When you put all that together I think you're going to see the Community Bank's contribution increase but the corporate will remain strong.
And so the percentage of Community will come up but the absolute levels of both will be increasing.
And ladies and gentlemen due to time constraints we will take our final question from Mike Mayo from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Tom Hennessy in for Mike.
I had 1 follow-up question.
If you could just go back to your expectations for loan growth.
You had mentioned the line utilization still being flat.
In the outer quarters especially does your expectation for loan growth come from any uptick in utilization? Or is it still just predominantly coming from new production? Our current forecast is primarily from new production.
So if we did see a turn in utilization that would actually be a big benefit for us.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Greer at this time I would like to turn the conference back over to you for any additional comments.
Thank you Lisa and thanks to everyone for joining us this morning.
We hope you have a good day.
This concludes our call.
And this does conclude today's conference and we thank you for your participation.
Greetings ladies and gentlemen welcome to the BB&amp;T Corporation First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference.
Currently all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
As a reminder this event is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Alan Greer of Investor Relations for BB&amp;T Corporation.
Thank you Felicia.
And good morning everyone and thanks to all of our listeners for joining us today.
We have with us Kelly King our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Daryl Bible our Chief Financial Officer who will review the results for the first quarter and provide a look ahead.
We also have other members of our executive management team who are with us to participate in the Q&amp;A session; Chris Henson our Chief Operating Officer; Ricky Brown the President of Community Banking; and Clarke Starnes our Chief Risk Officer.
We will be referring to a slide presentation during our comments today.
A copy of the presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental financial information are available on our website.
Before we begin let me remind you that there may be statements made during the course of the call that express management’s intentions beliefs or expectations.
BB&amp;T’s actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the forward-looking statement warnings in our presentation and our SEC filings.
Our presentation also includes certain non-GAAP disclosures.
Please refer to page 2 and the appendix of our presentation for the appropriate reconciliations to GAAP.
And now I’ll turn it over to Kelly.
Thank you Alan.
Good morning everybody and thanks also for joining our call and your interest in BB&amp;T.
So I’d say overall given our normal seasonality and the substantial reduction in mortgage volume we had a really solid quarter some driven primarily by insurance commercial loan growth credit quality and excellent expense control.
If you look at earnings net income totaled $501 million versus $210 million in the first quarter of ’13.
That was diluted EPS of $0.69 and that was also after 2 one-time negative adjustments totaling $0.03 per share which I’ll give you a little detail on in just a moment.
Of course our first quarter ‘13 results were reduced by a tax related adjustment of $281 million.
If you look at revenue revenues were $2.3 billion and that was seasonally lower as you would expect.
Results were driven by higher insurance revenues higher trust and investment advisory revenues offset somewhat by lower net interest margin and a decline in mortgage banking income.
Our fee income ratio was very strong at 43.2%.
If you’re following along those lines I’m on slide 3.
Commercial loan growth was very good this quarter.
Average CRE income producing properties balances grew 10.6% annualized versus fourth quarter ‘13 that was led by multifamily but also we had some growth in office retail and industrial.
In the case of CRE income and construction both of these had the best growth rate since the recession and frankly we expect them to continue have good solid growth rates.
Average C&amp;I growth was 3.6% annualized which was driven primarily by corporate lending.
Sales finance was strong balances grew 7.3% annualized versus fourth quarter and that was primarily driven by prime auto.
Average mortgage loans were a little noise there so let me explain it to you.
Mortgage loans were $8.7 billion retail loans down by $6.6 billion pardon me for allergies.
That was really just a change relative to our QM compliance adjustments.
So we transferred $8.3 billion from retail to mortgage and that’s just offsetting effect of that.
And deposits: Our noninterest-bearing deposits increased $2.9 billion or 8.8% although at linked quarter growth was only 0.5% due to seasonality.
Average deposits decreased to $188 million or 0.6%.
And our deposit mix improved on our cost to client 1 basis point to 0.27% which was very pleasing.
Our credit improvement continues to be a great story.
Net charge-offs were 0.55% of average loan and leases.
Now core net charge-offs are 0.47% which was down to 0.49% in the fourth.
So what happened there we had an additional $23 million in charge-off related to a change in process in our non-prime auto portfolio; Daryl will give you more detail on that.
But basically net core charge-offs went down again.
Loans past due 30 to 89 and 90 declined NPL declined NPAs declined so really really good levels of credit quality and continuing to improve.
We said in January that our expenses had peaked in ‘13 and would decline in ‘14.
So we delivered.
Non-interest expense decreased 14.8% annualized versus the fourth quarter.
Expense decline was driven by lower personnel and professional expenses.
Efficiency ratio improved and we had positive operating leverage in the first quarter which we were very pleased about.
We do expect continued improvement in our efficiency ratio throughout ‘14.
I want you all to know we are laser focused on expense management and we continue to re-conceptualize our businesses.
A lot of the re-conceptualization processes that we developed over the last couple of years are really beginning to kick in now.
And frankly because revenue is relatively slow and probably going to be somewhat slow as mortgage continues to rebound it’s just really important to be tough on expenses and we are.
So if you turn to slide 4 with regard to the selected items we did have an adjustment to non-controlling partnership interest of $16 million after tax which was $0.02 a share negative.
We did have merger related and restructuring charges related to severance which was $5 million after tax and then it was a penny after tax impact on EPS.
If you look at slide 5 let me give you a little more color with regard to the lending area.
Overall our loan demand from new business is improving.
Large percentage of loan demand in the market I will say to though is refinance and shareholder friendly purposes.
But our quarter was kind of interesting; it started out kind of slow obviously mostly because of weather volumes really accelerated late into the quarter and that did impact some of our seasonal business like for example Sheffield start is really getting going and heading into the second quarter.
That was slowed a little bit because of the weather it’s really began to pick up now.
So we’ll see really good growth in that in the second quarter so overall really good building momentum.
If you look at absolute numbers you will see that total loans were 0.9% but taking out the covered loan run-off which you know about the real -- normal loans were up 2.3 -- 2.1% annualized.
But within that are some really good numbers.
So C&amp;I was up 3.6% CRE income producing was up 10.6% CRE construction was 3.5%.
So total commercial was up 4.9%.
These portfolios had really turned recently and beginning to grow for the first time in a long while but seem to have really good lives as we go forward.
Again when you look at these numbers remember retail is down and mortgage is up that’s just a watch so don’t pay any attention to that.
Sales finance was strong and 7.3%.
Other lending was down seasonally.
We do expect double digit growth in those areas in the second quarter.
I will point out thought that equipment finance was up 26.8% and that will likely carry on into the rest of the year.
So we’re seeing strong momentum in equipment finance.
So we have a number of enhanced lending strategies that we are focusing on.
I just want to mention you our specialized strategy in CRE lending is really again in production.
We have over $1 billion in unfunded consortium loans which kind of speaks to continued momentum.
We have a nice pipeline and our new national CRE permanent financing program which will begin in April.
Large corporate lending is continuing to produce double-digit growth incremental and outstanding.
Our real strategy over the last several months is paying off and wholesale lending and dealer finance continue to gain moment we are having double-digit growth there and we expect that throughout the rest of the year.
Wealth lending is a real strong story for us; it’s growing fast and really becoming a major driver in our retail business.
And we’re gaining general traction in all of our markets but particularly key new markets like Texas and Florida.
So looking forward we expect average loans to grow 3% to 5% in the second quarter ‘14 being led by C&amp;I CRE income producing and construction.
Our sales finance will be strong.
All the lending subsidiaries are expected to rebound strongly that would be led by insurance premium finance small ticket consumer finance business and equipment finance.
So I’d say overall lending is improving.
We continue to see and believe that there has been a shift in business psychology.
I mentioned this in the middle of the fourth quarter.
[Businessmen] equally really started focusing on it’s time to kind of make a psychological turn and invest.
And the need to invest out there is really strong.
I’ll just reference a comment from (inaudible) letter last week which kind of makes this point.
They were talking about the aging of buildings and equipment will drive investment this year up to 4.5% to 5% versus 1.5% in 2013.
So this is interesting.
So if you look at the average age of all fixed assets from buildings to rail equipment machinery had lengthened to 20.3 years in 2012 highest since 1949 and they’ve gotten even older.
Buildings averaged 22.2 years old since the 60s.
And so as we talked about there has not been a lot of investment in refurbishing and rebuilding and getting ready for expansion.
So that are used very positively as we go forward I think with regard to momentum in terms of lending.
So we remain very focused on disciplined lending.
I just want to point out that while our growth may not be as strong as some even though we think it’s still really good relative to the environment we will be very disciplined we are not heavy players in leverage lending business.
I’ll just mention to you you may have seen an analyst data write up in last few days someone is really calling out the issues that a lot of banks would really focus a lot on large leverage lending I’m not going to comment on which banks he talked about but I will tell you that he had (inaudible) us “BB&amp;&amp;T has been by far the most cautious with the de minimis amount of leverage loans.” That is affirmation of exactly what we have been telling you.
And we remain committed to long term profitable loan growth.
And I didn’t say we are not going to be aggressive we’re working really hard we’re going really on the streets working hard to get all the good loans profitable loans that are out there.
But we are not going to push loan growth at the expense of quality.
And that’s been a long standing position of BB&amp;T and it remains so.
So having said that we have a number of enhanced strategies as I described; and another point to keep in mind we got a lot of large real estate loans because that was a bigger part of our portfolio that are really been paying off recently.
One of the good things is mathematically most of those portfolios have turned and so just mathematically with the same production their growth will go up and we are expecting final production so that’s really good news.
We have a really good strong I call the action in the bank in terms of moving market share.
I would say you have been traveling around talking about folks in the community bank and our corporate lending area enthusiasm for lending is at an all time high.
We are really focused on being the most responsive in the marketplace and we believe ultimately that will be the key differentiator.
So we are very excited about lending as we go forward particularly.
If you turn with me to slide 6 just a couple of comments with regard to deposits.
Deposits are continuing to behave exactly the way we wanted to the last years so we continue to improve our deposit mix and cost.
You will notice that while non-interest bearing deposits were only 0.5% up first quarter versus fourth because of seasonality we did have strong organic DDA growth of 8.8% versus the first quarter and importantly our DDA mix improved to 28.2% versus 24.9% in the first quarter of ‘13.
So that’s a whopping big change in one year.
And we again pulled our interest bearing deposit cost down by a penny and about a point to 27 basis points.
I will point out though that we do think that will be relatively flat as we go forward not a lot more downside there because frankly we and others are having to focus on deposit [acquisition] because of the liquidity in LCR purposes.
You’ll see us spend more time growing commercial and retail deposits as we run off some public funds which has gone unfortunate but that’s the requirement of the LCR requirements at least at this point unless they change it.
So we feel good about our deposit strategy and sort of are complementary to our lending strategy.
Let me turn it now to Daryl for some additional color on the numbers.
Daryl? Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
I’m going to talk about credit quality net interest margin fee income non-interest expense capital and our segment results.
Continuing on slide 7 we continue to see improvement in credit quality driving lower costs and lower provision.
First quarter net charge-offs excluding covered were $156 million or 55 basis points.
These numbers include $23 million in net charge-offs resulting from a process change that accelerated charge-offs in our non-prime auto business.
Excluding this change core charge-offs were 43 to 47 basis points down slightly compared to last quarter.
We are maintaining a long-term charge-off guidance of 50 to 70 basis points.
But for the next few quarters we believe charge-offs will remain below 50 basis points assuming the economy does not deteriorate significantly.
Non-performing assets excluding covered declined 6.4% during the first quarter.
NPAs as a percentage of total loans were 0.54% our lowest ratio since 2007.
We expect NPAs to improve at a modest pace in the second quarter.
Turning to slide 8 delinquent loans decreased in most categories as credit continues to perform very well.
Our allowance to non-performing loans decreased slightly from 1.73 times to 1.7 reflecting strong coverage.
We had reserve release of $80 million during the quarter excluding covered activity and a change for reserve for unfunded commitments.
This compares to $67 million released last quarter excluding the same items.
We expect future releases if any to be lower as credit improvement stabilize.
Continuing on slide 9 margin came in at 3.52% down 4 basis points from the fourth quarter.
Core margin was at 3.29%.
Our margin declined due to higher investment balances purchased in response to the new liquidity rules.
For the second quarter we expect margins to decline approximately 10 basis points.
This decline results from tighter credit spreads and new originations and continued write-off of covered assets.
These factors were partially offset by improved funding mix and lower cost.
Our duration of equity is a negative 55 basis points at the end of the quarter.
We remain slightly asset-sensitive.
Turning to slide 10 our fee income ratio for the first quarter remains fairly stable at 43.2%.
Overall non-interest income decreased $74 million.
This was driven by a decline in mortgage banking income lower investment banking and brokerage fees and decline in other income.
These decreases were partially offset by a strong performance in insurance.
Insurance income was up $56 million over the fourth quarter due to 9% growth in commissions stronger performance-based incentives and better information which allowed us to report $23 million in revenue that normally would have been reported in the second third and fourth quarters.
This is not a one-time benefit just timing.
But even when you consider this we had really strong results.
We expect second quarter insurance revenues to be similar to the first quarter.
Mortgage banking income declined $26 million in the quarter primarily due to lower residential volumes and lower production of commercial mortgages.
Residential gain on sale margins increased from 55 basis points in the fourth quarter to 69 basis points in the first quarter.
However origination volumes were down 29% and loan sales were 51% lower compared to last quarter.
To address the lower mortgage revenues we are taking aggressive action to align our production and origination businesses to coincide with lower volumes.
Investment banking and brokerage were down seasonally this quarter to $88 million compared to record performance last quarter.
FDIC loss share income offset was [worse] by $9 million compared to last quarter.
This quarter’s assessment of cash flow significantly changed our outlook for accretable yield and our offset going forward.
We expect approximately $20 million improvement in interest income in 2014 versus our prior guidance but approximately $80 million in greater fee income offset as we amortize the FDIC receivable.
So our net benefit for 2014 is projected to be $120 million.
This is a decrease of $60 million compared to our last projections.
In total this is a positive development in cash flows.
Our covered assets are performing better and our losses are down so we will earn additional interest income on these assets over their lives but in the short run the changed results and a reduction in the estimated recoverable cash flows from the FDIC which will be amortized over the next couple of quarters.
Other income decreased primarily due to two items a $3 million net gain on the sale of consumer lending subsidiary last quarter and a decrease of $19 million income from assets related to certain post employment benefits which is offset in personnel costs.
Turning to slide 11 we achieved positive operating leverage which drove our efficiency ratio to 59.3% this quarter.
Total noninterest expense decreased $53 million or 15% annualized compared to the fourth quarter.
This decrease was led by lower personnel costs and lower professional service expense.
The personnel expense decrease was mainly due to lower incentives and lower pension expense.
Personnel expense included a seasonal increase of $25 million due to the annual reset of social security limits and other payroll taxes.
FTEs were essentially flat compared to last quarter.
Professional services declined $13 million reflecting lower legal costs and a decrease in project expenses.
Merger related and restructuring charges totaled $8 million in the quarter due to severance accruals.
We still plan to achieve an efficiency ratio in the 56% range in the fourth quarter of this year and we expect positive operating leverage throughout each quarter.
Finally our effective tax rate for the quarter was 27.3%.
We expect the similar rate next quarter.
As Kelly mentioned earlier our non-controlling interest included a $16 million one-time catch up adjustment which is related to certain partnership profit rights.
Turning to slide 12 capital ratios remain strong and are up from the fourth quarter with Tier 1 common at 10.2% and Tier 1 at 12.1%.
We also estimate the Basel III common equity Tier 1 ratio of 10%.
We are looking at liquidity we made excellent progress in the LCR ratio which is currently 87%.
If you recall we have to be at 80% by the first of next year as proposed remember these rules are not final yet.
Our liquid asset buffer is 16% so our liquidity position is very strong.
We were pleased to receive a no objection for our capital plan.
We will recommend to the Board one penny increase in the quarterly dividend from $0.23 to $0.24 this will happen later this month at our regularly scheduled board meeting.
And this will result in a dividend yield of approximately 2.5%.
Beginning on slide 13 loan demand picked up significantly in the last four weeks in the community bank for strong growth in retail and C&amp;I.
Throughout the quarter we had strong CRE growth and we expect that to continue in the second quarter.
Community banking net income totaled $217 million reasonably lower versus fourth quarter but increase from last year.
Our dealer floor plan initiative has been very successful as we have grown loans 92% compared to last year and 47% compared to last quarter.
We also surpassed $1 billion in outstanding balances.
Also we obtained regulatory approval and expect to close our 21 branch acquisition of Citibank later this quarter.
Turning to slide 14 residential mortgage net income was $63 million.
The mix of refi to purchase was 34% and 66% respectively.
Remember we added cost late last year due to the organizational realignment to be compliant with QM.
Looking at dealer financial services on slide 15 net income was $35 million for the quarter.
This is down on a linked quarter and like quarter basis as credit has normalized resulting in an increase in loan loss provision.
We continue to generate strong production in dealer finance with linked quarter loan originations of 27%.
Operating margin in this segment was down slightly versus first quarter last year at 78%.
On slide 16 our segment lending on net income of $59 million production was down due to seasonality but we will achieve double digit loan growth in this segment in the second quarter.
Moving on to slide 17 insurance had a strong quarter even without the benefit of a $23 million timing change we described earlier.
We had good production in both retail and wholesale businesses.
Net income was $75 million up 88% versus like quarter due to factors I described earlier.
Same store sales excluding the process change was strong at 9% which includes profit commissions from our wholesale businesses.
The EBITDA margin improved to 27% versus 25% a year ago.
Recently we closed two small but strategic important insurance acquisitions.
The combined revenue of these acquisitions is approximately $11 million.
Turning to slide 18 our financial services segment generated $68 million in net income driven by corporate banking and wealth with growth of 18% and 20% respectively on a like quarter basis.
Total invested assets increased $114 billion or 12% annualized growth compared to last quarter.
We will continue to drive stronger revenues in the future.
In closing we see additional modest credit improvement continued expense leverage stronger loan growth and improved fee income production.
And with that let me turn it back over to Kelly for closing remarks and Q&amp;A.
Thank you Daryl.
So I think you can see why we say it’s our solid quarter we did have great credit quality.
I would point out to you that in the CCAR fed’s stress test of all the commercial banks that was [first] we had the level [four] jobs and the base net income projected through that cycle so that was a very very good and affirms our high quality credit portfolio.
We are building long momentum with these enhanced strategies we have excellent expense control we have strong fee income particularly in insurance which is really material and becoming a very very positive stores [with their] forward.
We do believe the market is improving and while it’s not overly robust it is definitely getting better and we saw a really strong improvement as we headed though the end of the first quarter and we think that will carry out through the rest of the year.
So we’re excited about the improvement in market and we’re focused on excellent execution and think we will have really good results as we go forward.
Now I will turn it over to Alan.
Thank you Kelly.
This time we will ask Felicia to come back on the line and explain the Q&amp;A process.
Go ahead Felicia that’s fine.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
We’ll go first to Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Nice to see the expenses really appreciate that.
My question is on CCAR and Kelly you talked a little bit about that in your closing remarks and it looks to me like you graded yourself very harshly I mean in some cases you were even more conservative than the fed.
And with your strong capital ratios the question is why so conservative on [the ask] with no buyback request I guess I’m wondering what you think you need to see in order to turn that buyback request back on? Well Betsy that's an obviously good question.
To be very honest coming off of our negative experience last year my strategy was to be absolutely very conservative and take no risk with regard to this process.
As you know and from recent revelations it's a somewhat challenging process.
And I just simply did not want to take any risk.
Although I will admit that does set up a positive opportunity as we head into ‘15 and that's what we were trying to set up.
And do you think there is any possibility of going back in for a resubmit or separately do you take the excess capital that you're generating now and use it in asset allocation maybe going after parts of the loan market that others can't because they are tied around capital? Yes.
So I think the latter Betsy will be more likely.
We always have the option to go in for special request as circumstances justified.
And I will point out that we did say in our application that if we were to get a recovery on the Star transaction that that gives us opportunity with regard to buybacks or special dividends.
But more likely you would find us being more aggressive with some of these strategies to lever up that additional capital.
I still think that we have best [pay grade] for our shareholders and that's what we would focus first on.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
You bet.
We'll go next to Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
Thank you.
Good morning Kelly and good morning Daryl.
Hey Gerard.
When you guys look at your capital levels obviously they are very healthy.
And as you just addressed with the CCAR how does acquisitions Kelly play into this.
There has been apparently a low activity with the bigger banks.
What’s your view on the next 12 to 18 months of the M&amp;A market? Gerard I think we’re all trying to figure kind of where that’s going on obviously there is nothing going on today except this small in.
I don’t think you will see much activity in the near-term Gerard but a little bit different with some people I don’t think markets will shutdown forever either.
I think as the Fed gets comfortable with to seek our process banks with strong capital like BB&amp;T and banks frankly don’t part with any systemic risk we’ll have the opportunity to look at the combinations as we look forward.
I think that’s a good healthy long-term thing for BB&amp;T because we’re really good at it.
But I just want to always reinforce that when we talk about acquisitions that we are not going to take substantially dilutive acquisitions we just not want to do it it’s not helpful to our shareholders that doesn’t mean we won’t look at acquisitions but we look it along we have to do much as you know from my tenure as CEO.
And so we’ll be very cautious and careful.
We’ll keep looking.
It’s not out of the question for the long-term but don’t expect much in the short-term.
You mentioned systemic risk how do you I think most people would agree our four largest banks are too big to fail.
Do you know where in your eyes is the cut off line where you’d become a systemic risk bank? Gerard I think that everybody is including the Fed personal opinion is trying to figure this out.
But what I personally think right now is up to $500 billion is kind of a clear non-systemic level.
I think a trillion and above is clearly systemic.
I think going 500 and a trillion nobody kind of knows.
But when you go over $500 billion you’re heading into the territory you’re heading into a question that is more likely to be more pressure on systemic question.
So that’s the reason 180 or so we could double and still be the size of U.S.
bank.
And so we’ve got lots of opportunity before we even get to that kind of a slow if I could say 500 level.
Great.
And then just finally coming back to the Tier 1 common ratio under Basel III clearly you guys are very strong at 10%.
Once let’s say at the end of 2015 all the issues from the past for the industry are behind us where do you think you will be comfortable in carrying that Basel III Tier 1 common ratio if the requirement for regional banks like yours is 7% obviously you are not going to have it that low but what’s the comfort level?  Well we like everybody are still trying to finalize how we settle that all [incomes].
Your capital level has something to do with your liquidity level and we have all that final numbers there.
So we will be conservative Gerard as you know in capital but it’s something less than 10 and you know it’s in the 9ish area we think for the current period and what is 9.5 or what is 9 you just kind of ends on how we feel about these other factors.
Thank you.
Sure.
We’ll go next to Paul Miller of FBR.
Yes.
Can you clarify on your NIM? When you’re talking about a 10 basis points decline in NIM were you talking about the headline NIM or the operating or core NIM?  Yes Paul this is Daryl.
I would tell you that we are talking about our GAAP NIM going down from 352 to 342.
And what about any guidance on the core NIM the 329?  I would say approximately half of that amount.
So we were 329 on core and we are probably down about 5 on core margin.
I think as you look at core margin going forward it should start to stabilize but we are just seeing a little bit tighter credit spreads right now in some of our lending categories specifically C&amp;I and prime auto.
So I mean when you’re talking about so should we see a continued pressure given the current environment throughout the year at this current rate? When we are forecasting our margin right now we are forecasting current spreads that we’re seeing right now not any further decline.
So we have a nickel going down on core margin next quarter and then it’s starting to stabilize after that quarter.
And then on the mortgage front have you seen any pick up at all in your pipelines on the purchased product? That is kind of moving around Paul right now but I would say there has not been a substantial pick up in the activity but certainly purchase is dramatically versus refi.
So if you look at purchase only as a way out if you look at the total it’s not going to drive the total.
So our purchase is about 65% of our product today which is really good because we think what you did into the spring it has been a tough winter; people didn’t get out of the houses to look for houses.
You get into a spring people could be back out looking for houses despite that our percentage is much higher on purchase as well for some momentum pick up.
Yes.
Just to add to that I would say that our revenue should pick up to be similar to what we saw in the fourth quarter.
I just did what Kelly said about the purchase and seasonal activity in the second.
Okay guys.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
We will go next to Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
Yes good morning.
Good morning.
Just a question on the loan growth for the rest of the year sorry I haven’t heard you two.
Kelly your color on both on the business psychology and what your teams are doing in terms of their aggression they are both very upbeat.
As when you look for loan growth for the balance of the year is it fair to assume that we’ll continue to see the quarterly acceleration in loan growth like you’re predicting for the second quarter of the year versus first quarter?  Yes.
I think that will continue to build as regard we go through the year again because it is business confidence.
By the way one thing I failed to mention earlier I think it’s pretty indicative of business confidence.
I just read this yesterday so business survey and employers expect to have 8.6% more college graduates this year.
Last year when they asked them that question it was 2.1%.
So when you look at all these factors there are clearly a lot of green shoots out there in terms of building momentum.
Got it.
And just a follow-up question on the efficiency ratio we appreciate the color on 56% range for the fourth quarter this year.
As we look out to 2015 I know it’s a little bit early but assuming no major shift in the rate environment in the first half of ‘15 are you expecting to essentially hold the line in the mid 50s efficiency ratio regardless of the revenue environment? Well I don’t think it’s [true] to be honest or get anybody to say that they are going to be holding their expense expectation independent of revenue because obviously the fixed ratio is the function of expenses and revenue.
And so if your revenue were decline a lot you just say well I’m going to absolutely hit a certain efficiency target that would -- you could completely destroy your franchise.
So we’re not independent in terms of revenue.
However having said that as I think about ‘15 I think about revenues to have a positive upward momentum.
I think business is really strong.
I think margins it will be better set by more loan demand more loan demand that you have more opportunity to have a little firmness in pricing.
So as you see all of that that looks to me like some comfort in terms of positive revenue change and with our really tight focus on expenses which will translate into ‘15.
Then I have a lot of comfort in the 56 range and I think as you head into ‘15 you could see a little bit of downward pressure below that.
Great.
Thank you for taking my questions.
We’ll go next to Steve Scinicariello of UBS.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I just wanted to follow-up with you just given the strength in the insurance income line and that you have bolted on a couple of other franchises lately.
Just kind of curious what kind of the outlook might be from here both from an organic side and inorganic side and maybe kind of interplay between what we should expect going forward.
Hey Steve this is Chris Henson.
I appreciate the question.
We are very excited about what takes place in insurance we sort of saw this couple of years ago beginning to play out.
And so what you got really is sort of price improvement sort of in 3% to 3.5% range and you have got sort of new business growth in the 1% to 2%.
And then we talked about some time ago as those begin to play as the economy improves we also benefited from performance based commissions from really all businesses retail wholesale MGU et cetera.
And that could range anywhere in the 1% to 1.5% range.
So kind of looking forward you could see a market this year in the 6 maybe even 6 plus kind of growth rate.
And that kind of breaks down in retail and wholesale kind of as follows retails run in probably about 5% just kind of run rate growth looking forward wholesale is probably in the 9% kind of range and those mixes kind of roll out of there 6 plus kind of range.
So it really continues to perform we think with sort of underpinnings of the 2 revenue opportunities that we have which is cross-sell life insurance to wealth or broker dealer and P&amp;C clients as well as the EB opportunity employee benefits from a company we rolled a couple of years we are now rolling out a plan we got the whole footprint is -- we’re feeling very very positive about the whole business.
It definitely sounds like very exciting opportunity you think you might be able to bolt-on some more of these franchises as well are there more opportunities like those out there too?  I think there could be -- the good news is I don’t think we have to do anything significant.
Kind of where we are focused today we have all the major pieces today.
We are about half wholesale half retail which takes the volatility out of earnings.
So it really kind of gives you the good kind level return to level out to the earnings kind of going forward.
We also have dominant market share in Crump life and we have the largest wholesaler in the country.
So we don’t need any big pieces but to your point there are to fill in we can do within the community bank footprint which is kind of what Woodberry was and then we particularly could have some competency areas like (inaudible) with respect to aviation.
We didn’t have a competency there that gave us the ability.
So you could see some small fill-ins kind of looking forward.
Perfect.
And then just changing gears I know the asset sensitivity dip down a little bit just kind of the funding side mix shift over there.
Are there any things you guys might look to do to kind of start to increase the asset sensitivity over the next couple of quarters? Yes.
Steve what we’re really focused on is growing our core deposits.
As we grow our core deposits that will give us more flexibility on the balance sheet because of the optionality and the betas that we project there.
So I think as we continue to build out and add to that that should kind of offset what we’re seeing on the loan side organically.
So I think core deposits is really the key in the answer it also helps a lot with our liquidity and just makes it more efficient to meet the liquidity ratios.
Makes sense.
Thank you so much.
We’ll go next to John Pancari of Evercore.
Good morning.
Good morning.
In terms of the margin color you gave how much of that core margin compression guidance factors in any incremental impact from investment securities tied to LCR? And then separately just want to get an idea on your loan yield expectation in terms of where you’re putting on new loans currently by portfolio? Thanks.
Okay.
So for the net interest margin piece I’d tell you that we are basically forecasting out from this point flat investment balances.
So there is really not any more margin pressure related from the investment portfolio.
It’s really due to the just tighter credit spreads that we’re seeing and our volumes that we’re putting on in the loan side.
Just for an example if you want to look at our C&amp;I book C&amp;I we booked about 5.5 billion new and renewing assets and the average rate on C&amp;I was about a 231.
When you look at our CRE the average rate on the volume that we booked there little over a 1.2 billion or 1.3 billion was around 4%.
So we are seeing a little bit tighter pressures in both of those areas but overall still really good.
And from an asset sensitivity position those tend to be more floating rate (inaudible) asset that will also help our asset risk position.
Okay.
All right that’s helpful.
And then on the loan growth side on the C&amp;I side could you give us a little bit more color on the growth you are seeing there I know you mentioned corporate banking Kelly want to see what type of credit that is particularly if you are avoiding the whole leverage lending side of the business? And then separately on the CRE side I know you mentioned permanent financing initiative want to get a little bit more color there? Thanks.
Hey John this is Clarke I’ll answer that call.
As far as our corporate strategy it’s really aligned around the middle market segment for the industry verticals we follow.
So in that regard we are absolutely winning the high yield leverage sponsored transactions so really do almost none of that so most of our focus has been on these verticals.
For us the growth is coming out of the area is like our energy group in Texas REIT portfolios agro business public finance and really strong in corporate leasing we call it equipment finance.
So those are what we are seeing our best opportunities on the commercial middle market.
On the CRE side predominantly multi-family’s [field] both on the construction and the permanent but we are starting to see some retail mostly think nice high quality single tenant deals some office we’re actually doing a little bit of hotel and some industrial and for the first time in a long time we also saw some residential home builder construction on very high quality there.
And then finally I would say another big focal area for us that was mentioned is dealer [floor] plan has been very very strong.
Okay.
Great thank you.
Thanks.
We’ll go next to Ken Usdin of the Jefferies Investment Bank.
Thanks good morning.
Daryl I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more on the NII outlook.
Previously you guys have talked about being able to hopefully grow core NII this year even with the sales of the business and that you made late last year.
Do you think that’s still possible given the incremental core margin compression? Our rate forecast right now is for rates to moves in mid ‘15 upward and we will see how that plays out.
I would say that our core margin is currently 329; we should end the year in the low 320s.
So I would say it stabilizes there.
And probably doesn’t move up until we really get some increases in rates but hopefully we can get it stabilized in the low 320s.
Okay.
And my second question is can you just run us through the components of the purchase accounting numbers; you gave us the ‘14.
If you have it on you if you would be able to give us the pieces of how you're at least thinking of interest income and then the loss share back out for ‘14 and ‘15? Yes.
So if you look at the full year 2014 the net impact will be $120 million of earnings.
If you break it into the pieces interest income is $390 million and FDIC loss share is a negative 270 let's say you get to the 120.
When you get into ‘15 the benefit from the purchase accounting comes down dramatically.
The net benefit of like $30 million interest income like $190 million with the $160 million offset.
So it's pretty much out of our run rate as you get into 2015.
Okay perfect.
Thank you.
Welcome.
We'll go to Keith Murray ISI.
Thank you.
Could you just spend a minute to talk about reserve release likely [doing] a linked down here is that more a function of loan growth that you are expecting or are you seeing anything in the credit books that you think in a three-six months out whether it’s delinquencies et cetera you kind of hitting a bottom here?  Hey Keith this is Clarke very good question.
What you are seeing for us is consistent with others and that all the higher risk managers have been burning down and that’s where the releases have come from today as our portfolio is just stabilizing and returning to a more normalized level and we would expect the provision start at some point matching charge-offs and as we grow our portfolio we would have to increase reserves at that point out.
So we would certainly not expect the level of releases we’ve seen over the last several quarters as we move forward but it’s not reflective of any concern at all about asset quality.
In fact I would say to Kelly’s point about the CCAR results and our own view of risk we think we have built a very sustainable high quality portfolio and there is nothing in our assumptions about reserves that would indicate any concerns about increased risk at this point.
Thank you.
Kelly maybe just a broader M&amp;A question when you think about bank M&amp;A today you have done a lot of retooling of branches and technology et cetera.
Is there a concern in your mind that if you purchase a bank today sort of going to have to reinvent the technology and the branches et cetera where the costs upfront might be different than they were in the past.
Is that something that you think about?  Yes Keith we think a lot about that.
I would tell you we are not as aggressive as some people are about the eminent [demise] of the branches and everybody just want technology and all that although we do think those are real trends things just don’t change as fast as lot of people think.
But so we tracked all of that into our acquisition model of the acquiring companies.
So depending on what the state of technology is if it needs to be rebound we simply build that into our expected investment we have to make.
And therefore we would lower the price to generate our desired level of return.
So just because they have dilapidated brand system or have (inaudible) in technology we’ll not preclude it from doing it we would just suggest the price.
Thank you.
And then just finally do you have any update on where you stand in the Star’s appeal process? No it’s still in the normal kind of process; probably fourth quarter would be our guess.
We’ve been surprised it could have happened earlier but we would guess fourth quarter.
Thank you very much.
You are welcome.
We’ll go next to Kevin St.
Pierre of Sanford Bernstein.
Good morning.
Kelly you mentioned the somewhat negative experience in last year’s CCAR but the results of the actual stress test last year were very good just like this year.
So now with two straight years of strong relative performance on the stress test is it fair to say that if we’re sitting here next year and you had 11% Tier 1 common that we’d see more than a 30% total payout ratio? And if yes would you favor special dividends or share repurchase maybe talk about priorities? Yes.
So if those conditions exist which we fully expect them to certainly we would expect to apply for more than 30% total payout absolutely.
And so again it’s been very conservative.
This year doesn’t give anything away it just keeps it in the pot makes it available for our subsequent decisions.
So as always we would like to use excess capital to grow organically like to do acquisitions do as many being as aggressive as reasonable dividends including the possibility of special dividends.
But if none of those seem to be the right decision then buybacks moves out the list in terms of our thinking.
But I will remind you that we think about the issue of buybacks more than just reducing our capital.
We never go and do a bunch of buybacks that the price still has a bad decision for the shareholders.
And so it’s pretty complex decision as you know.
But the order priority would be as I described and I think you could reasonably expect us to be more aggressive in some form of fashion as we head into ‘15.
Great thank you.
And a quick one for Daryl and/or Clarke you mentioned in your comments Daryl that for the next few quarters your quote was next few quarters you expect charge-offs to be below 50 to 70 basis point normal range.
Is that because you’re hesitant to forecast beyond the next few quarters or do you -- or is your expectation that net charge-offs will rise in 2015? Kevin this is Clarke great question.
There is nothing to imply that we necessarily think there will be a big change.
But as we said before our normalized range based upon the way we’re trying to grow the portfolio and deposit mix what we’ve chosen for our company that that [‘15] would probably through this cycle long-term sustainable (inaudible) certainly if the economy stays strong and as we’re rebuilding early coming out of the older stuff running off then we could be below that range.
So we’re just I think being cautious and conservative.
Great thank you very much.
Sure.
We’ll go next to Christopher Marinac of FIG Partners.
Thanks.
Daryl you mentioned earlier about the need to grow core deposits so I was curious if you expect any change even if it’s [deferred] models than the overall funding costs of those few quarters? Yes Christopher what I would tell you is that we’re pretty much at the floor on deposit costs.
I would maybe forecast maybe a couple of more basis points coming down and that's really coming down in the CD book.
I think if you look kind at how we're pricing our now accounts and our MMDA accounts.
We're offering very attractive rates and we're getting a lot of good traction in growing both retail and corporate balances in those areas.
And I think that’s gained momentum in the community bank area and our large corporate area and I think that's going to play out throughout the year.
Okay great.
And then Kelly just a follow-up for you you mentioned about loan growth and kind of increased activity across the footprint.
Is there a difference between their larger metro areas and the smaller more midsized markets? Yes I would say there is.
In two regards one is in some cases some of the largest metro areas they got to being down the most have a bigger ramp up possibility because of that part being down.
And then just a nature of large urban markets is they have more large businesses.
And to be honest the largest businesses in my market and I’m pleased across the country are doing much better today than the small medium-sized businesses are largely because they have international opportunities and they have bigger scale.
And so just a mathematical nature of that means there would be more lending opportunities in the larger markets [let’s] not to say that smaller markets are bad it's just they are not growing today as fast because they don't have the large international components flowing through these large businesses.
On the other hand I will remind you that one of the reasons we like large and smaller markets all these markets might not grow as fast in the rising time they don't go down as fast.
And so it’s now a really good part of our diversification strategy and we like them both.
Great thanks very much guys.
Yes.
We'll go to Nancy Bush NAB Research LLC.
LLC</strong> Hi Kelly how are you? Hey Nancy.
LLC</strong> Just a quick question sort of an add-on there your optimism about business conditions I think is very well received but I am just sort of wondering about are you seeing a kind of resurgence across the Southeast or is it very spotty or if you could just comment on how the Southeast seems to be proceeding I would appreciate it.
Nancy you have been the best around in terms of really focusing on the markets specifically the Southeast.
I would say it’s generally broad based.
And as I travel around to the Florida or Texas or South Carolina where I have been recently there is a broad based kind of generic change in mood.
And so I think that is not market specific.
I think frankly you and I have talked about how the Southeast is going through a long-term kind of secular change in the nature of Southeast vis-à-vis Northeast.
I think the Southeast in general is getting ready to have 10 to 20 years of relatively positive robust improvement mainly because of something I think most people have focused on and that is the change in currency value of the retirees wanting to move to Northeast to Southeast.
So for 25 plus years they were facing currency devaluation as the Southeast was growing fast and that market was not growing at all so they could every year they could sell their house and buy latest house because the currency went down.
That’s exactly flipped we did a 50% discount on the Southeast and their values haven’t gone down as much.
So I think you are going to see some upward push particularly in real estate and related service in places like Florida.
The market slot was fighting for a while and they have gaining again Texas growing 1 000 people a day and so I think it’s across the board and it’s relatively positive.
LLC</strong> Just as an add-on to that I mean could you speak to sort of the residential picture residential construction picture in the Southeast? I mean what are we going to see in this next cycle? I think in the short run Nancy what you’re going to see is kind of interesting is you’re going to see some ramp up in prices and existing homes because we’re going to go through a [valley] here of construction because of no lots available.
We’ve been through 5 years where we didn’t develop any lots and it takes in many cases 18 months or so to get zoning and all to get the new lots going.
So what you’re seeing today is more of the large national builders are moving into bay the lots are already developed so that they can -- they have the capital and they just have to get the lots.
So you’re going to see upward prices on existing lots upward prices on existing homes relative to their phenomenon.
But simultaneously you will see A&amp;D building because there is a dearth of lots out there.
So I think hopefully won’t be as robust as it was in the last 10 years or so before the crisis.
But I think you get ready to see a solid development of momentum in A&amp;D and verticals in the single family.
And multifamily is still strong.
I think it stays strong for next year or so.
And then I think as the economics single versus rental costs you’ll see multifamily plateau.
And so we’ll be -- we’re making that shift now we’re already focusing more on single family A&amp;D and construction to be ready for that intending change.
LLC</strong> Thank you very much.
You bet.
And our final question comes from Gaston Ceron of Morningstar Equity Research.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Just very quick question going back to the M&amp;A topic it sounds like perhaps not a lot on the firm burner in the near term but certainly still lots of interest on the long term.
I am curious as you kind of assess your experience with the Citi branch acquisition; I’m curious how that has kind of affected your appetite or interest in acquisition future branch acquisitions of this kind versus in prior banks.
I mean do you -- has your experience been so positive that you continue to see this as a kind of way to go out to franchise in key states? Yes.
I think you are going to see likely more of -- you are seeing more you will see a continuing trend of branch sell out fast some of the largest institutions that are having capital issues and/or trying to narrow the product lines and/or market focuses just like our opportunity coming out of Citi’s decision in Texas is a really good opportunity.
Now it depends on the institution it depends on the nature of their branch distribution have they run it in a way this relationship oriented or they’re just trying to push product not so much the nature of the buildings and the technology but nature of the strategies in the marketplace like for example the Bank Atlantic acquisition process is really good because while they have some problems on top of the house they have a really good basic of retail strategy that we’re able to build on.
So Texas right now for us that looks very very good.
And I think that will be very good as we go through.
If we see other situations like that we would be very aggressive in looking at it.
Certainly one of the advantage of branch acquisition is it eliminates any whole bank risk issues around BSA AML et cetera.
So it’s -- it would be how on our list but not necessarily to the exclusion of whole banks.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
You bet.
I’ll turn the conference back to Mr.
Greer for any additional remarks.
Thank you Felicia.
And thanks to all of you for joining us.
This concludes our call.
Thank you and have a good day.
That does conclude today’s conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the BB&amp;T Corporation Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference.
Currently all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
As a reminder this event is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Alan Greer of Investor Relations for BB&amp;T Corporation.
Thank you Adam.
And good morning everyone and thanks to all of our listeners for joining us today.
We have with us today Kelly King our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Daryl Bible our Chief Financial Officer who will review the results for the second quarter 2014.
We also have other members of our executive management team who are with us to participate in the Q&amp;A session; Chris Henson our Chief Operating Officer; Ricky Brown the President of Community Banking; and Clarke Starnes our Chief Risk Officer.
We will be referencing a slide presentation during our comments today.
A copy of the presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental financial information are available on the BB&amp;T website.
Let me remind you that BB&amp;T does not provide public earnings predictions or forecasts.
However there may be statements made during the course of this call that express management's intentions beliefs or expectations.
BB&amp;T's actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the forward-looking statement warnings and non-GAAP disclosures in our presentation and our SEC filings.
As a reminder to our listeners we will be hosting an Investor Day in New York City on September 11th later this year with registration beginning at 8 AM.
The event will be held at the New York Hilton Midtown invitations will go out later this month.
And with that I'll turn it over to Kelly.
Thank you Alan.
Good morning everybody and thanks for your interest in BB&amp;T and thanks for joining our call.
Unfortunately we had a couple of late quarter events which created some noise which I'll discuss with you and I think you'll see they're pretty straight forward non-recurring.
But beyond that it really was a very solid quarter with strong performance in virtually all of our strategic initiatives.
If you look at slide three you'll see net income total $425 million versus $547 million last second quarter mostly diluted because of these unusual items.
Diluted EPS of $0.58 compared to $0.77.
These unusual items with earnings was reduced by $0.12 due to mortgage and tax related reserve adjustments and a $0.01 due to merger related restructuring charges.
So if you adjust for these unusual items our core EPS would be $0.71.
And our adjusted ROA was (1.24) [ph] adjusted ROE was (9.84) [ph] and our adjusted return on tangible common equity was a strong (15.52) [ph].
So while we're not where we expect to be once we get through these short term process changes we've been talking to you about we're really very pleased with our core business performance.
Total revenues were up 3% to 2.3 billion compared to the first quarter revenues were up due to high mortgage income investment banking service charges on deposits performed very well.
Also had strong loan growth and improved fee income.
Our fee income ratio was a strong 44% versus 43.2% in the first quarter.
I was really very pleased with overall loan growth which I consider to be robust given the market conditions which you know we had a very soft first quarter due mainly to weather.
And we started the second quarter expecting 3% to 5% which was our guidance but we updated mid-cycle that we thought we would exceed that and momentum continued to build through the quarter so in fact we ended up with 7.8% ex-covered which was very strong.
We made some tactical changes on our community bank which really accelerated production and banks have been really really pleased with that.
All of our strategic initiatives experienced strong loan production including corporate banking wealth lending all of our specialized lending businesses; of course we did have some strong seasonal growth in some businesses like [indiscernible] CAFO and our Texas loan production is really very-very strong.
Overall the pilot production continued to be very strong.
We're really getting excellent growth from our newer markets of our community bank and our national corporate banking strategy is producing excellent results in deposits.
Almost all of our credit metrics continue to improve and I was very pleased to see charge-offs down to 40 basis points substantially under our long-term guidance of 50 to 70 lower since 2007.
Our NPA has decreased another 7.1%.
I would point out though that while we may see a bit more of the cloud we probably have kind of a base floor or normal level of NPAs.
Now when you kind of get down to the bottom you have a certain amount of natural flow.
So I don't consider NPA to be a storyline at this point.
They just tell you it's kind of be what they're going to be in the normal operations as we go forward.
If you look at expenses our increase in non-interest expense is driven primarily by 118 million housing reserves related to FHA insured loans I'll talk about.
And an increase of 27 million of personnel expenses mostly due to the fact we had stronger production related incentives.
If you exclude the unusual items and production expenses expenses were relatively flat as we indicated they would be in our mid-quarter update at a conference.
So we're really focused on the expenses we understand that on a relatively slow economy which we still have and tight margin pressures.
Expenses is something that you can't control we get that and we're really-really focused on it.
We still expect our efficiency ratio to be in the 56% range in the fourth quarter.
I recognize that is a substantial drop in the 59% that we've put this through in enormous amount of scrutiny and I am very confident.
I can't guarantee it but I'm very confident that we're going to be able to give that.
We put a number of measures in place to ensure that we do.
If you look at slide 4 I want to talk to you a little bit about these unusual items.
Well said later in the quarter we had these couple of events.
We were notified that FHA insured loan origination process will be the subject of an audit survey by the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
There are no findings from HUD at this time.
In fact we don't even have an audit; we just have a notice of an audit survey.
But in light of announcements made by other financial institutions related to the outcomes of similar audits and related matters and after further review of our exposure we believe it's prudent to have for us to establish the reserves.
It's been an industry issue as you know for many FHA originators and we believe this is just the appropriate conservative course of action for our company.
We established the reserve 53 million which was 85 million pre-tax but affects other expenses and 21 million which is 33 million pre-tax to adjust our indemnification reserve for issues going forward.
It's going to be likely several quarters before this will be resolved and it could be a year and a half or so before we find out what the final determination is.
In addition the RS changed the position that they held for almost a year and are now indicated we need an addition of $14 million also to return our tax reserves to fully reserved position.
We also had $8 million in after-tax merger related restructuring charges which is about $0.01 a share so I sort out the noise you know we live in a dynamic world that I think you can see these are really unusual and non-recurring items.
If you flip with me to slide 5 I'll talk a little bit about lending.
To understand we have robust loan growth.
As basically given the current markets conditions which are pretty challenging out there and our conservative and discipline and credit culture so the growth was robust.
It was really broad-based.
As you can see from the slide C&amp;I was up 10% CRE income produced some 3.5% CRE construction development was 18.3%.
So if you combine that total commercial was at 9.1% which is really very-very pleasing.
Direct retail recall is kind of messy between that mortgage because we transferred out several billion dollars last part of the first quarter from retail to mortgage under the QM restructuring.
So if you adjust for that direct retail was up really a very strong 8%.
I am very; very pleased about sales finance was up a very strong in similar season was 25%.
Residential mortgage again chose up 23% but again if you adjust for what we transferred in it's about flat by design because we are now selling most of our production.
Other lending subsidiaries were up 12.4% that has strong seasonal growth from Sheffield of 26% and Grandbridge up 30%.
So if you look at the C&amp;I CRE construction and income in C&amp;I area that was really mostly driven by large corporate lending mortgage warehouse.
I'll point out that that market is extremely tight spreads are really tight.
It's more competitive than any of us have ever seen in our careers.
So it's a real tight rope in terms of managing the right level of growth in terms of quality and spreads.
We're simply not going to equivocate with regard to quality and so we maintained a with disciplined position with regard to leverage lending really large hold positions and so given that context we feel really good about the growth we're getting.
Really pleased that our CRE activities have changed this is a sea change from the last several years where both of those portfolios were really running off.
We're still very disciplined of the quality but fact is those markets are coming back and a lot of the run-off has already occurred so really good momentum there which should continue.
The direct retail is really strong we're getting great growth in our community bank our wealth production is really strong.
The community bank is just kind of a miraculous change to be honest.
Rick and his team made some important tactical changes.
Frankly adjusting our pricing a bit to get little closer to the market.
We've gone over the market frankly and we kind of got a little closer to the market we've got more sort of focus we've got through the QM restructuring which kind of took our eyes off the bottle a little bit and that all that is kind of behind it.
So 8% growth in retail is really good.
We think that has legs as we go forward.
Sales finance just continues to rock along we have a great sales finance program.
I know there is some concern out in the marketplace in terms of quality; our quality metrics are extremely good kind of past use and ours is at all-time lows.
So we feel really good about that really tightly focused on beacon scores et cetera.
Residential mortgage as I said is kind of flattish.
We expected to stay kind of flattish; we're selling all of our production except jumbos.
We'll continue to keep our jumbos because that's really high quality well clients mostly -- and but mostly you can expect to see our residential portfolio kind of flattish.
Our other lending subsidiaries will continue to do well in all of the areas that we're focused on there.
So looking forward to the second half we expect a range of 3% to 5% could be a little stronger in the third as the strong momentum in the second carries over the first followed the third but conservatively obviously 3% to 5% for the whole second half we'll still have strong growth in C&amp;I CRE income and construction other lending subsidiaries particularly sales finance will be strong retail lending will potentially be strong will get strong growth in premium finance Grandbridge and Sheffield.
So we're really blessed to have such a good diversification in our lending strategies.
So we're not wholly dependent on any one particular strategy and we continue to be focused on doing a lot of things well rather than being solely dependent on any one particular strategy.
If you flip quickly to slide six just a comment with regard to audit.
So our total deposit diversification and liquidity strategies continue to be executed really well.
So we had improved deposit mix and cost cost coming down another $0.01 now I will tell you that that cost is getting kind of to a base level so it's not likely to continue but it is at a low level that might well continue for a while.
Non-interest bearing deposits or DDA was up 14.1%.
Total deposits were up 12.4% really good growth in pro-forma business non-interest bearing deposits which increased respectively 18% and 19.6% annualized versus the first quarter so feel really good about that.
Very pleased that our DDA mix is up to 28.3% versus 25.8% in the second quarter of '13.
[Indiscernible] couple of years ago there was about 15%.
So it's really really changed pretty dramatically.
Recall that for the last several years we've been focused on diversification strategies in our asset mix and our liability mix and we are just relentlessly chasing those strategies and they are working very very well.
Really pleased about the addition of $1.2 billion in deposits and a number of branches in Texas.
We continue to feel great about the Texas market.
Of course we added 30 de novo branches there last year and all of that together is really moving the needle for us in the Texas market where we are now a top 20 bank in Texas.
Still a long way from top five we'd like to be in all the markets we serve but we are on the way and we believe we will get there.
So let me turn it to Daryl now for some more color and detail on some of the various categories.
Daryl? Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
I am going to talk about credit quality net interest margin fee income non-interest expense capital and our segment results.
Continuing on slide seven we continue to see improvement in credit quality.
Second quarter net charge-offs excluding cover declined 25% to 117 million or 40 basis points versus 55 basis points and down 12% compared to last quarter.
We continue to expect net charge-offs to remain below our normalized long-term charge-off guidance of 50 to 70 basis points for the next few quarters assuming no material decline in the economy.
30 to 89 day past dues increased 84 million compared to last quarter due to seasonal increases in our specialized lending businesses.
In most other categories 30 to 89 days past due decreased as credit continues to perform very well.
The 12.9% decrease in 90 day past dues was driven primarily by a reduction in delinquencies on government guaranteed residential mortgages.
NPAs excluding covered declined 7.1% with a 12.7% decrease in commercial NPLs.
NPAs as a percentage of total assets are at their lowest levels since 2007 at 49 basis points.
We expect NPAs to improve at a modest pace in the third quarter.
Turning to slide eight our allowance coverage remains very strong.
The coverage for non-performing loans increased to 1.78 times from 1.7 times last quarter.
We had a reserve release of 39 million excluding covered activity and the change with the reserve for unfunded commitments.
This compares to an 80 million relief last quarter excluding the same items.
We do not expect further reserve releases in future quarters.
Continuing on slide nine margin came in at 3.43% down 9 basis points from the first quarter and in-line with our guidance.
Core margin was 3.22%.
The decline was the result of lower earning asset yields and the impact of our covered asset portfolio.
Partially offset by improved funding cost asset mix changes and wider credit spreads.
Looking at the next quarter we expect margin to decline another 5 to 10 basis points for similar reasons.
Net interest income will be relatively flat for the third quarter including the impact of purchase accounting.
Looking at the graph at the bottom of the slide our asset sensitivity improved from the end of the first quarter mainly from asset and funding mix changes.
Turning to slide 10 our fee income ratio improved to 44% compared to 43.2% last quarter.
Overall non-interest income increased 22 million compared to last quarter.
This was driven mainly by increases in mortgage banking bankcard fees and merchant discounts checkcard fees and service charges on deposits.
Mortgage banking income increased 12 million mostly from a 24% increase in production income and an increase in gain on sale mainly driven by retail spreads.
Bankcard fees and merchant discounts service charges on deposits and checkcard fees all increased due to higher volumes.
Insurance income decreased slightly compared to the first quarter mainly due to lower employee benefit commissions and lower performance based incentives partially offset by increased P&amp;C commissions.
Overall we expect non-interest income to be almost flat next quarter driven by a 50 million seasonal decline in insurance income partially offset by other fee items.
Turning to Slide 11 the efficiency ratio for the quarter was up slightly compared to the first quarter at 59.8%.
Total non-interest expense increased to 148 million compared to last quarter which includes mostly unusual items.
The increase was driven by 118 million in mortgage related charges.
Other expenses includes 85 million related to FHA loans and loan related expense includes 33 million related to an increase in repurchase reserves.
The increase in personnel expense was driven mostly by higher insurance and mortgage production related incentives and seasonally higher equity based compensation for retirement eligible employees.
In spite of the 140 FTEs added in Texas FTEs declined 350 compared to last quarter.
As we continue to right size our businesses we expect further FTE reductions over the next two quarters.
Merger related and restructuring charges totaled 13 million due to severance accruals and the conversion of 21 Texas branches that occurred late in the second quarter.
Going forward we expect expenses to fall below 1.4 billion in both third and fourth quarters.
As a result of the declines in lower FTEs incentives and regulatory and discretionary cost in the second half of the year.
We continued to target an efficiency ratio in the 56% range in the fourth quarter.
Finally our effective tax rate for the quarter was 26.6% we're expecting a slightly higher rate in the third quarter.
Turning to Slide 12; capital ratios continued to remain strong tier 1 common at 10.2% and tier 1 at 12%.
Tier 1 declined slightly from the increase in loans and loan commitments resulting from higher risk weighted assets.
Also our estimated common equity tier 1 ratio was approximately 10% at the end of the second quarter unchanged from last quarter.
Looking at liquidity we continue to make excellent progress in the LCR ratio which is currently 93% compared to 87 in the first quarter.
If you recall 80% is what is required by the first of next year as currently proposed.
Beginning in Slide 13 loan demand increased significantly versus last quarter in the community bank with strong production in C&amp;I and dealer floor plan up 15% and CRE up 31% and direct retail up 62%.
Community bank also experienced strong growth in CRE and dealer floor plan growth as well as nice increases in dealer and direct retail lending.
Net income totaled 222 million up both linked and like quarters.
Our optimization efforts in this area continued to result in significant cost savings.
Finally successful conversion of the 21 branches in Texas added 1.2 billion in deposits.
Turning to Slide 14 residential mortgage net income declined mostly due to FHA charges.
The mix to refi the purchase was 29% to 71%.
Originations were up 24% versus last quarter to 4.7 billion and we expect to be relatively consistent next quarter.
Looking at dealer financial services on Slide 15 net income was up significantly in the quarter at 63 million as dealer financial services continue to generate strong loan production.
Originations from prime auto business were up close to 30% compared to last quarter.
Non-prime originations were up 32% versus linked quarter.
Growth in both of these businesses was driven by increases in auto sales as well as increased marketing efforts to the dealers.
Underlying asset quality continues to perform very well and our end of period NPAs decreased 17% compared to last quarter.
Quality continues to be pristine with charge-offs in the prime auto portfolio at nine basis points this quarter.
Finally our operating margin in this segment was up linked quarter and was 79.2% at the end of the second quarter.
Turning to Slide 16 our specialized lending segment had experienced an outstanding quarter earning net income of 60 million.
Loan growth for Grandbridge was 31% and Sheffield was 26% compared to last quarter.
Increased growth in Grandbridge was partially due to the portfolio of product introduced this year while Sheffield growth was seasonally strong.
We expect to achieve double digit loan growth in this segment next quarter.
Moving to slide 17 BB&amp;T Insurance net income was 58 million in the second quarter driven by strong and new renewal business.
Non-interest income declined due to seasonality employee benefit commissions and lower performance based commissions which was partially offset by strong new business and solid client retention.
We had good production in both retail and wholesale businesses.
Same-store sales was strong at approximately 6% and the EBITDA margin declined 24% due to lower performance commissions this quarter.
Turning to slide 18 our financial services segment generated 68 million in net income drive by a loan growth in corporate banking at 38% and 41% while as compared to last quarter.
The invested assets increased to 117 billion to up 10% compared to last quarter.
This will continue to drive strong revenues for us in the future.
In closing we see additional modest credit improvement relatively stable revenue and a decline in non-interest expenses and moderate loan growth in the next quarter.
And with that let me turn it back over to Kelly for closing remarks and Q&amp;A.
Thank you Daryl.
So I think you can see ex the unusual items really very solid quarter.
We have strong loan in deposit growth we had improving fee income ratio.
Our expenses adjusted were flat we expect them to be down to 6% by the fourth quarter.
And really all of our strategic initiatives are working extremely well.
So it's a challenging world it's a challenging market but we continue to focus on our long term strategies and we absolutely believe our best days are ahead.
So Alan I'll turn it to you for Q&amp;A.
Okay.
Thank you Kelly.
We'll now enter a time for our Q&amp;A session.
Please follow our normal practice of asking a primary question and one follow up so that we can maximize participation in the call.
Thank you.
Adam if you will come on now and explain the process for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we'll take our first question from Gerard Cassidy RBC.
Daryl can you or Kelly can you share with us you guys had some good strong commercial real estate loan growth and you mentioned it was in construction as well.
What type of construction lending you're having success that at this time? Gerard it's getting to be broad based but it's mostly - we're still in the income side we'll still see apartments and again beginning to see a little bit of activity and hotels but mostly in apartments and income side in the retail side it's basically vertical so we're finally seeing activity in terms of builders coming back in for a call down of lines for development of lots there's a dearth of lots out there now which we kind of projected was coming in and that's happening so we're seeing lot developments.
And pure construction lending by some of our local strong builders that survive the crisis not that many did but once it is survive a very strong and so it's fairly broad based for all I say and frankly I think it's got legs for a good while to go.
Kelly is it also geographically disbursed or is it more down in Florida in the South East or the Carolinas? Well we'll seeing it into Carolinas pretty growth strong from places like The Triangle Atlanta DC Gulf Coast South Florida so it's fairly broad based and of course we're saying we're newly entered in Texas but we're beginning to get some traction even in Texas in this business.
Of course construction in Texas is booming or adding 1 000 people a day.
So it's moving.
Thank you.
And then finally the second question is your capital obviously is very strong your Tier 1 common ratio was well above the required minimums where you guys maybe as we finally get through this regulatory process and everybody is very comfortable with the CCAR what's your comfort level of where the tier one common ratio should sit? Well I think you know we are all still -- at least we are still trying to be fairly conservative you know in the absolute levels.
So we will keep more of a cushion than we would otherwise but clearly we are above where we need to be.
And so as we continue to accrete capital we clearly have we have building capacity for return of capital as we head into '15 and you know whether that will take the form of strong organic growth M&amp;A or how our dividends and our shareholder purchase because all of that will probably be some kind of a mix to be honest of all evidence as we head into '15 but I think you can expect substantially higher shareholder return of capital in '15 versus '14.
And we will take our next question from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Hi good morning guys it's actually Brian from Ken Steen.
I wanted to just start on the efficiency ratio.
So as Kelly said you know quite a bit of work to do to get from the 59.8 in the second quarter down to 56% by the fourth quarter you know the guide for the third quarter looks like revenues are expected to go flattish on quarter-over-quarter.
So just wanted to get your thoughts about how you are thinking about the mix of revenue growth in the back half of the year to get to that 56% versus the expense reductions? You know most of it will be driven on the new motor side we clearly have a number of strategies in place that will kick in in the third quarter and in the fourth quarter of business strategies in terms of reconstructualizing our businesses that are frankly already done and they will be rolling out in terms of how you take reserves and then the actual plans go in to affect but all of that is well conceived already executed so its thus far we have a large degree of certainty about that and as we may have indicated you know a good bit of the process cost are beginning to pay down as we head through the late third quarter and into fourth quarter.
So it's not a perfect world and you should have some unusual items to go against this but we describe this really carefully because obviously we said this in the beginning we said mid quarter that we will be flattish for the second which is what happened.
So I understand that's a big leap from 59 point down to 56 point but we feel very confident that that's what's going to happen and you will have to challenge us so long as we go through the third and fourth but we stand on it.
Okay and on the manager's margin you expect another five to 10 basis points of pressure in the third quarter mainly due to covered asset roll-off but what are your expectations for the (core nimb) [ph] and should we start to see it stabilize here in the back half of the year? Yeah Brian this is Daryl.
What I would tell you is that our core margin should start to stabilize over the next couple of quarters.
I would expect -- if we're down five to 10 this next quarter we're probably down three to four probably over the next couple of quarters in core margin.
Soabout half or little bit less than half of what the GAAP margins coming down.
And we will take our next question from John Pancari with Evercore.
I wonder if you give us a little bit more detail on the decline in the securities balances in the quarter and if you could remind us a little bit more about what you are still doing in the securities books and positioning for LCR in terms of what you are buying and what yields? Thanks.
Yes so our security balances if you look on an average basis were really pretty flat were around 40 billion as far as the LCR ratio goes we continue to make great progress we're at 93% we'll probably end the year around the 100% if the rules don't change we get any relief from the final rolls that come out our LCR ratio will be significantly above 100% which actually could be used as an advantage are going forward potentially.
As far as the type of securities we're purchasing as we get cash flow in we are buying tier 1 securities of mainly Jenny Mays and U.S.
Treasuries.
Our duration in the portfolio is a little bit over four years but our new purchases are shorter and that's what we're trying to average down a little bit.
Okay all right.
And then secondly on the loan growth just want to see if you can give us a little bit more color on the strength in the C&amp;I.
I know you gave some good color on CRE and a little bit of a color on the C&amp;I drivers on the call but just want to get some additional detail on what you're really seeing in terms of the pickup in C&amp;I because it definitely came in stronger than expected.
So primarily right now the C&amp;I growth is coming out of our national corporate banking strategy it's very broad base in terms of our various industry verticals we are getting good growth in our energy space but also food and agriculture and other verticals.
Recall that we initiated strategies several years ago we see have a very small share of the national corporate banking market.
I would point out that it's still a very granular portfolio with average deal size about $35 million so we're not taking really big deals we're just getting a lot of number of shares of really good companies in those various verticals.
We are getting good C&amp;I growth in Texas in to community bank as well and so I would say that in the industry there is a bit of a bifurcation today that some people have not yet focus on and that main street America small business smaller into middle market is very very tepid it's still flattish and most of the growth in the country is coming from the large market most of the calls they have international strategies and so we are glad that we are able to participate in that.
Now when the small to middle size market risk begin to move which we hope will happen then you'll see a really big kick coming out of our community bank but for the time being it's largely being driven out of our warehouse strategy and our large national corporate banking strategy.
We'll take our next question from Eric [indiscernible] SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Thanks very much.
I'm afraid I'm just coming back to the efficiency ratio and to the operating expense figures.
In that fourth quarter efficiency ratio target is there a component of the improvement that relates to seasonal expense or is that actually sort of a core run rate figure? No that's kind of a core run rate we don't see the seasonal impact on expenses in the fall we see it a lot in the first and the second but no it's core it's related to personnel expenses it's related to project and process cost consulting cost all of those categories but not lot frankly it's in personnel expenses.
From the FDE reductions? Yes.
And so I guess really my core question is really this you're currently running at around a low 70 kind of core earnings number and the consensus estimates have you kind of coming out of this year at $0.80 and given the commentary on revenue it's sounds then like the entire incremental improvement is coming out of OpEx and I guess my question is is that a forecast that you're comfortable with.
Well I think we're comfortable with the expense forecast we're comfortable with the loan guidance and we're comfortable with our margin but to be honest some of the consensus analysts have not factored in the guidance we've given with regard to margin I think people who have had challenges with regard to dealing with the covered and even though we've been really transparent including graphs it's been difficult for people to factor that in.
So I'm comfortable with what we projected and thank you if you do the math then you'll arrive at the right conclusion.
We'll take our next question from Paul Miller FBR.
Good morning.
This is actually [indiscernible] Paul.
Can you just say what the line utilization's been in the quarter? We saw a couple of banks that had a pickup in utilization.
Yes this is Clark Starnes.
We actually had some nice improvement our utilization was up 700 basis points up to about 39% have been running in the mid-30s so it was as Kelly said higher utilizations and things like our energy portfolio our REIT portfolio mortgage warehouse and several of the initiatives that we already talked about.
So we were quite encouraged about that hope it will continue.
And just a quick follow up.
There was a pretty negative article on auto-lending in New York Times over the weekend.
If that segment started getting sort of increased headline risk or regulatory scrutiny would you guys change your behavior at all in that business? Are you comfortable with the risk you're taking? I saw that article and I think it's probably true for a good bit of the industry.
But it was talking primarily about really the lower end of the used car dealers and the lower end of the sub-prime lenders.
We don't participate in that space.
We're in sub-prime lending but not what they were talking about.
In fact over the last several years we dramatically tightened down our lending standards and our processes.
Our scoring our credit big and scores et cetera continue to improve.
I was reading through some commentary this weekend from our folks that run that business a number of our credit metrics are like all-time lows for those businesses.
So our business is doing great.
Now to your point if the market continues improve deteriorate and become more frothy and if it bleeds over to the market in general what you would see would be our volumes would go down because we'll just keep doing what we do which is good solid quality conservative underwriting.
And if others choose to do a more risky lending they'll take volume that we won't take.
So it will be a function of what others do not what we do.
Then we'll take our next question from Betsy Graseck Morgan Stanley.
Two follow up questions one on expenses and one of the LCR.
On the expenses appreciate the color on where you're expecting the expanses to go in 3Q 4Q the 1.4 billion sub 1.4.
I am just wondering is that a good run rate as we think into '15 I know you're not talking about '15 specifically but is that kind of a normalized number from which we should build our '15 model? Betsy I know you've been around this business a long time as have I.
And talking about 2015 at this point you might as well ask me about 2020.
I don't know what's going to happen in 2015.
But I think conceptually to your point it's not inappropriate to think about that as kind of a base line.
I mean there is nothing that we're doing in the third and fourth to bring expenses down.
That's going to jump up right back up in the first and second.
So I don't think that's inappropriate to think about it in that concept.
But we're not ready to give any guidance with regard to next year.
And then on the LCR Daryl you mentioned that if certain decisions were made you'd be at 100% plus.
Is that a 100% plus LCR or is this 100% of the 70% that you need to be at.
No we would be 100% off the rules that are proposed today we're at 93.
So we're in a really strong position and if we get any relief from the final rules our number will be low north of 100%.
That's well above the ratio that you're required to have.
It is I think we are just proactive in managing our balance sheet we always want to have maintain strong capital and liquidity versus our peers and I think we're doing that.
So there could be an opportunity to move NIM the other way once the rules are finalized.
Potentially that's true; we just need to get some new rules out there.
And we'll take our next question Keith Murray ISI.
Just to ask a question you are talking about potentially stronger loan growth in 3Q? Sounds like other banks have kind of topped down 3Q relative to 2Q a little bit.
Just curious what you're seeing there trend wise.
And are you seeing a pickup in CapEx at all? I'll give you a little color and then Clarke can add some more.
So our momentum was just so strong building through the second and frankly its carrying right over the end of the third.
We just think that the front half of our Q3 is going to be stronger than the back half.
And so that's why we're saying that the Q3 to be a little higher than the range of 35 but you got some seasonality when you head into the fourth and our mortgage warehouse has been driving some of the growth we are expecting that to soften (a bit to change which would be a (good) [ph] factor but we are not expecting the general market to decline but it's just some seasonal factors and some particular product factors that are causing us to give that somewhat conservative guidance.
Keith Kelly's point we ended the quarter strong in the period growth rate was actually higher than our average.
The end of period came in double-digits so that's clearly going to carry us over in the third quarter but to your question about CapEx what we are seeing is some more new money issuance around mostly M&amp;A so a little bit more CapEx overall but more on the M&amp;A front that's driving some of the demand that we're seeing a little less on the capital return.
Okay.
And then just curious if your credit result this quarter included Shared National Credit exam and then you guys have been pretty vocal about what you have seen going on on leverage lending market are you surprised at all that the industry hasn't seen more of an impact from the Shared National Credit review? Thanks.
Yes Keith this is Clarke.
Our results do include full results for our portfolio around our SNC exam so we were quite pleased and not surprised however at our results and certainly think I would just suggest there is more to come elsewhere in the industry because there clearly is a lot of pressure from the agencies on labor twining.
And I think you will see that impacted come out as we move forward.
We will take our next question from Matt Burnell Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning folks may be a couple of follow-up questions.
You have mentioned a couple of times that the mortgage warehouse was a meaningful contributor to the C&amp;I growth.
I guess I am curious as to if you excluded the mortgage warehouse effect what was the annualized growth in C&amp;I lending relative to the reported 10%? So I think our commercial growth was about 9% for the quarter.
If you excluded the warehouse I think we are more in the may be the 6% range in C&amp;I ex the warehouse so we did have a seasonal increase which was certainly a contributor but we still had underlying to warehouse strong growth overall.
Okay and then for my second question.
Daryl you mentioned I think earlier in the call that your duration of the portfolio was down to a little bit more than four years.
That compares to the 5.1 year duration you had at the end of the first quarter and it looks like you've become a little bit more asset sensitive roughly 25% more asset sensitive is that a reasonable way to think about it and could you give a little more color on the duration of the securities portfolio? Yes I think the main driver for our change in asset sensitivity was both we had a large growth in commercial which is mainly floating rate assets and we continue to have strong growth in BDA which is more of a fixed rate funding source.
So those two are the main drivers for the change in asset sensitivity.
From our duration portfolio perspective we continue to make our investments shorter on average of what the portfolio is by just trying to shorten up because get ready for when rates start to rise in next couple of years.
And where would you like the duration to be eventually? I think long term our bank's portfolio duration should probably be anywhere around three and a half years give or take.
And we will take our next question from Nancy Bush NAB Research LLC.
Kelly there was a question earlier about the auto lending business and you are big in auto-lending and I realized you are not low sub-prime but you are in the sub-prime segment you are also in premium finance et cetera.
Could you just tell us a little bit about your interactions and relationship with the CFPB and where do you think any of these businesses are going to draw more attention there going forward? Nancy on the premium finance we have not had any discussions with them or draw it about all.
I don't think they are focusing on that because as you know that's a business -- primarily business type of financing commercial so I don't think they are really into deep.
In the auto space they are really focused on it and they are focused on the dealer activity.
They are focused on whether or not there is discriminatory pricing at the dealer level and as you know the CFP does not have a direct responsibility or part of it regarding the dealer so they're getting out it through the banks.
So we have had discussions with them as have all the auto financiers.
They've not been real transparent in terms of any rule making in terms of what they are looking for.
They just don't want to see discriminatory lending which of course we don't either.
It's tricky with regard to auto lending because in auto financing we don't yet raise in gender information.
It's nonessential information in terms of financing and auto appliance.
So we don't get that information.
So we're going through to be honest a kind of a convoluted process where about we are being required to kind of extrapolate what might be happening out there and to be perfectly launch as I am pretty uncomfortable with it because I'm not sure it's really very accurate and not sure if its really fair.
But nonetheless we are all being required to bring pressure on dealers if there is any apparent discrimination with regard to pricing.
And everybody's trying to figure out how to do that and it's a very-very gray transitory kind of a process.
Thank you that's helpful.
And just as an add-on you mentioned that the builder business is very strong and that you are running -- seeing shortages of lots now which is certainly a different situation than we had a couple of years ago.
But could you just give us some geographic color on that? How are the markets sort of fairing throughout the Southeast? We know that Florida has been strong but everything is cold there it seems to be.
So how are you fairing throughout your other markets? Well it's really beginning it could be fairly broad-based.
As I mentioned earlier the North Carolina which you know was a lag the North Carolina has come back strong; the Triangle is doing well.
Charlotte is doing well.
North Atlanta is booming now.
Now South Atlanta is not because you will still hear some carryover of excess inventory in Atlanta but Nancy what that is the development of lots and Atlanta got way out of control went way south of Atlanta out into the farms and started converting corn fields into lots and it would be a long time before that comes back.
But most of the growth has been and will continue to be in North Atlanta and is doing great.
Texas is doing great.
So I don't think we have any what I would call bad places today.
And some are stronger than others.
But it's mostly around the urban areas.
So you think about what you would expect; urban areas the Charlottes the Raleighs the North Atlantas the Gulf Coast et cetera those areas are not booming.
I wouldn't say they're booming but they're doing well.
And its coming back.
I'm pleased to say in a pretty reasonable fashion.
You're not seeing -- you're seeing more equity and deals.
You're seeing people not wanting to build a 1 000 houses at one time.
So now a lot of the activity is driven by the national players and a lot of their financing is being done in the national credit markets.
So you're not seeing as much of the credit expansion in the banks in the A&amp;D as you would see from the whole volume because of the credit markets.
But it's still now over to where the good solid larger locals who made it through the prices are doing a good bit of activity which as you know is kind of more where our bread-and-butter is.
We will take our next question from Matthew O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Just want to follow up on your comment about loan loss reserve release coming to an end.
I think similar banks have start to suggest this is the case.
But what's kind of the limiting factor or metric.
On page eight of our deck you show all the coverage ratios going up relative to loans that's coming down but obviously the quality of the book overall continues to improve.
So just wondering what's the limiting ratio from an outside perspective that we can be looking on? Matt this as Clarke.
As you know we look at a number of metrics and factors in our model not just a particular ratio -- any one particular ratio so there is not really a binding constraint necessary in one area.
But obviously our reserves stand at 1.27% very strong coverages but where the releases having been coming from has been the liquidation of the older higher yield advantages as Kelly said earlier the fact that our NPAs are moving more toward a normalized level.
We just wouldn't expect substantial or if any releases going forward as our non-performers have more or less moderated and we're down to a more normalized level of absolute reserve percentage so that's really what's driving our thought at this point.
And then just separately Daryl you mentioned the tax rate will go up a little bit in the third quarter where do you expect it to go and is that a good run rate level as we think about next year and beyond? Yes Matt I would probably say we are in the 27% range for the next couple of quarters and as you get out into '15 as our pre-tax income continues to climb our tax rate will climb a little bit as well so maybe in the upper 20% range into '15.
We will take our next question from Sameer Gokhale with Janney Capital.
I wanted to just touch on something that you mentioned earlier Kelly.
I think if I heard you correctly you talked about some of the expense controls and some of the benefits coming from reconceptualizing some of your businesses.
And I was wondering if you could give us a couple of examples of what exactly that means.
Are you changing go to market strategies for example in some of your businesses -- just a couple of examples to help us think about how you are expecting to get those expenses as you reconceptualize these businesses would be helpful? Yes so let me give you a conceptual response.
I don't know if Ricky Brown President of our community banking give you some color in that particular area.
So really going back 2 2.5 years ago I challenged all of our leaders to begin to reconceptualize the businesses into context of the new world.
I mean make no mistake about it we operate in a new world today in terms of regulatory costs in terms of digital banking as there are lot of factors that are changing substantially the way you have to think about banking as we go forward.
So we have simply said we are going to restructure the backroom and the front room to be a major player and driver in the new environment and our business leaders are doing a really good job on that and let me ask Ricky Brown to give you a sense of how he is approaching that and the community bank.
We've been working on this reconceptualization now for several years so it's just an ongoing process this go around in the second third and fourth quarter and we've been looking at every position in the community bank.
It's broad based in terms of geographic dispersion of the reconceptualization.
It's looking at roles what people do it's looking at processes it's looking at how we work with policies and procedures its really looking at how we enable our people to do their jobs better.
And so it is a very significant restructuring.
It will have significant improvement in our cost run rate of the community bank.
But at the same time we feel like we can maintain for us historic high levels of client service quality high levels of engagement from our associates maintain a little level of turnover which we've been managing to and effectively we'll be able to get the revenues that are available in this marketplace at lower cost i.e.
driving a better bottom line.
So we feel very good about what we've been doing.
It's been built from the ground up this was not something that I just said go do we did this from the ground up.
We've been looking at the context of a very difficult revenue environment you've heard that from us and others in the industry.
Yes so we think this is the right thing to do while continuing to be focused on how we do business.
I mean we're focused on client service quality we are a highly consultative company relative to our sales efforts we're very integrated and our community banking model serves us well because it allows us to continue be close to our customers.
So we think that this restructuring and this ongoing optimization effort is a very important aspect of our business and we think we're getting good understanding as we roll this out and we feel very good about our ability to pull this off we've done it several times in the last several years this is just an ongoing effort to find that most optimum mix of how we do what we do the best cost to get the best results.
So we're very optimistic about what's going on.
And then just another question in terms of your<i> </i>C&amp;I loans I mean I would say it's been fairly broad based C&amp;I growth which banks have benefitted from.
But when I try to reconcile that what's going on with yields and net interest margins that's where I have some difficulty thinking about whether that growth is good growth.
So this is where it maybe not just a question directed at you but more generally also how should folks think about C&amp;I growth? Because yes maybe demand's picking up but from the yield and margin compression that suggests that there is innocence in oversupply of these loans relative to the demand.
So what point do you think maybe we should dial back on C&amp;I lending even because the margins just aren't there so how should we think about that? Thank you.
Sameer this is Clarke.
That's a great question.
It continues to be highly competitive.
I think what you are seeing in our portfolio and across the industry is the continual trend of the old one it's running off at higher spreads and the new one's going own at lower spreads so you are exactly right.
For us we are encouraged to some degree in that while we continue to experience the old one run off we are beginning to see some stabilization in our new spreads.
So for example in our C&amp;I business our spreads in 2Q were about 190 basis points were about a 185 basis points in the first quarter.
So for us our belief and hope is that if we stay disciplined in our pricing and our risk selection that as those old managers burn down if we can have some continuity in those spreads quarter-to-quarter then we will see that pick up in choke in our net interest income.
And also remember that does not include any fee income or other ancillary businesses.
So when we look at the returns on these assets we're well in excess of a 15% return on equity probably north of 20%.
Plus these are floating rate assets so that we will benefit as these basically reprice when rates start to go up.
Yes we will take our next question from Mike Mayo CLSA.
Can you elaborate on some of the system conversions specifically the conversion of the general ledger? When is that targeted in the past you said it was going to be done in the summer and how are the prospects looking? Yes Mike this is Daryl.
I can tell you that we converted our first piece of our financial system this summer we actually completed it in the May-June time frame that was our fixed assets accounts payable tax piece.
We are looking at doing the actual GLPs in the next quarter or two.
And then in '15 as we get out there the system that we're doing basically has a database and that will start to be converted throughout '15 and that will take couple several conversion.
So from beginning to end it's probably a two year process.
We had good progress at the start and we're continuing to get ready and we've been working very hard to get through these conversions.
So I think we're making good progress.
So when you say the next quarter or two for the GL by what timeframe? I would say definitely by the first -- end of the first quarter.
Conversions in the fourth quarter have a little bit more risk.
It all depends on how you're testing from UAT goes and if there is any remediations if you have enough time to remediate and still pass stocks compliances.
So we may try to do it by the end of the year.
And if we don't get it done by the end of the year we'll get it done in the first quarter.
And as far as improving the efficiency ratio from 59% to 56%.
Could you say you might go and get there by the third quarter is that still a fourth quarter number? That's still fourth quarter Mike.
And to the extent that the system conversions are little bit letter what gives you the confidence that you can still meet the 56% target even while you won't have done the conversion that I presumably still have some dual systems.
Well that's clearly a good question that's the kind of dynamics we have to deal with when we're trying to make these kind of projections it's really challenging to be as specific as we're trying to be but we're just trying to be helpful and transparent.
But you're right I mean things move around.
So to the extent that the GL doesn't convert in the fourth quarter goes sort of first quarter that pushes upward pressure with regarding to hitting 56%.
But for that reason we are developing some insurance strategies to do some other things that would offset that if that does not occur.
So again I can't guarantee the 56% but we'll try to incorporate some of those contingencies and are thinking as we look forward.
And then last follow up.
More guidance is always better.
But if you were to get three items that help to offset that lack of benefits on the systems side what would those say three items be? Besides personnel costs I think we're pretty confident that our regulatory costs will fall.
Even and will of our GL conversion I still think our professional expenses will continue to fall and discretionary costs I think will continue to fall.
So I think we have enough momentum that we will drive our expenses down through all those items by the fourth quarter.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
King at this time I will turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you very much for doing a nice job.
Thanks everybody for joining us today.
We hope you will continue to be interested in BB&amp;T and again we believe our best days are ahead and we hope you have a great day today.
Thank you.
This concludes our call.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the BB&amp;T Corporation third quarter 2014 earnings conference.
Currently all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
As a reminder this event is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Alan Greer of Investor Relations for BB&amp;T Corporation.
Thank you Tiffany and good morning everyone.
Thanks to all of our listeners for joining us today.
We have with us Kelly King our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Daryl Bible our Chief Financial Officer who will review the results for the third quarter and provide some thoughts about next quarter.
We also have other members of our executive management team who are with us to participate in Q&amp;A session; Chris Henson our Chief Operating Officer; Ricky Brown the President of Community Banking; and Clarke Starnes our Chief Risk Officer.
We will be referencing a slide presentation during our comments.
A copy of this presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental financial information are available on the BB&amp;T website.
Before we begin let me remind you that BB&amp;T does not provide public earnings predictions or forecasts.
However there may be statements made during the course of this call that express management's intentions beliefs or expectations.
BB&amp;T's actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements.
I refer to you to the forward-looking statement warnings in our presentation and our SEC filings.
Our presentation include certain non-GAAP disclosures please refer to Page 2 and the appendix of our presentation for the appropriate reconciliations to GAAP.
And now I will turn it over to Kelly.
Thank you Alan.
Good morning everybody and thanks for your interest in BB&amp;T and thanks for joining our call.
So I'd say recall our third quarter is overall a strong quarter; solid loan and core deposit growth positive operating leverage and we have some very important I think strategic initiatives.
If you look at the highlights on earnings net income totaled $520 million versus $268 million in third quarter '13.
Diluted EPS was $0.71 compared to $0.37.
Now remember the third quarter '13 had tax-related reserve adjustment.
We did have a $0.01 reduction in earnings due to merger and restructuring charges so overall a really solid quarter.
ROA was 1.19%.
Internal tangible common equity was a strong 15.04%.
Net revenues were up 1.7% to $2.3 billion.
T hat was largely due to high mortgage income service charges and other fee income and it did really overcome our seasonal decline in insurance which is always a challenge for us.
Very strong fee income ratio at 44% so we feel good about fundamental earnings.
Loans grew 4.9% versus second quarter led by C&amp;I CRE direct retail sales finance other lending subsidiaries all was really broad-based.
If you x residential mortgages loans grew 8.8% which is very very good.
We did if you noticed in the releases we did sell about $550 million in loans primarily TDRs recorded a $42 million gain which was reflected as a reduction in the provision for credit losses that resulted in unusual net charge-offs of $15 million but it will reduce regulatory and servicing costs going forward.
We also had a significant unusual item and we extinguished $1.1 billion of FHLB advances which were costing 4.15% on average and we took a $122 million pre-tax loss.
We were able to replace that with less expensive short-term funding.
And so that does improve earnings runs rate immediately so another good positive for us.
In terms of our strategic announcements we had a really exciting quarter.
We announced our agreement to acquire another 41 branches and $2.3 billion in deposits in Texas from Citibank.
If you recall that follows the 21 branches that we acquired in the second quarter.
So now we are 13<sup>th</sup> largest bank in Texas.
I think when we started in 2009 we were 53<sup>rd</sup>.
So in five years we've gone 53<sup>rd</sup> to 13<sup>th</sup>.
We've got a long way to go frankly to get into the top five but we love Texas and we are moving and feel very excited about those acquisitions.
Really excited about the agreement to acquire the Bank of Kentucky $1.9 billion in assets; 32 branches in the northern part of Kentucky and really the Greater Cincinnati area.
We're excited about having number two market share in Kentucky; strong market position in the Greater Cincinnati market which as you know is a large fast-growing and for us a very diversified market.
So we're excited about that strategic initiative move as well.
If you go to Slide 4 I just want to amplify on these unusual items so that they will be clear.
So the gain on loan sale did increase charge-off by $15 million.
It did produce $26 million of after-tax gain as well a positive $0.04 impact on EPS.
The loss on the extinguishment of debt which is shown as a separate line item in the non-interest expense category was $76 million after-tax but had some negative $0.11.
We had an income tax adjustment on a negotiated issue with the IRS we showed it in the tax provision of course that was $50 million after-tax so that's $0.07 positive.
And then we had the merger related and restructuring charges which was a negative $0.01.
So you can see the first three items really kind of wash out and then you just have a $0.01 negative impact due to merg.
So a relatively clean quarter once you kind of work through those and really all the changes were positive.
So we felt pretty good about that.
I would point out however with all the changes it does create positive improvement and earnings looking forward from the loan sale and the debt extinguishment which is really good.
If you look at Slide 5 I'll say overall I'm very pleased with loan growth especially given that's a really tough competitive environment out there.
Also we did have some strong seasonal growth.
If you look at commercial loan growth it was very robust in the quarter.
C&amp;I was up $509 million about 5.1% annualized.
That was led by large corporate lending growth and mortgage warehouse.
CRE lending is currently mostly larger participations very competitive so very tight-spreads.
We are holding our guns with regard to our quality.
So we're getting growth but it's challenging out there.
We're not expecting C&amp;I to be strong in the fourth quarter because we'll have continued slowdown in mortgage warehouse lending likely.
Although I pointed out last couple of days yields have been dropping like crazy so who knows it might be up a lot so we'll see how that goes.
If you look at CRE construction and development growth of 16.1% that was led by fundings on the multi-family construction loans.
Really the largest geographical area there is North Carolina D.C.
Atlanta South Florida and the Gulf Coast of Florida.
We do expect that this will continue as we still have just north of a $1 billion on unfunded multi-family commitment.
So we think that will have legs as we go into the fourth.
In CRE income producing increased 8.2% annualized.
This is led by retail property financing for acquisitions refinancings and multi-family.
Saw growth in office and industrial properties for the first time in a while and this is really one of the most balanced quarters we've had in IPP and we feel good about that.
Average direct retail lending continues to have legs and is increasing increased about 12.7%.
Continue to accelerate due to HELOC direct auto lending in the branches so that's really a big fee change for us in the last three or four months.
Wealth continues to make a nice contribution to direct retail lending up substantially.
So we expect direct retail to continue to accelerate in the fourth quarter.
Residential loan were down 5.2% and includes a sale of essentially all of our conforming loans which was the change we made about 90 days ago and the sell of TDRs.
So total originations were actually up $5 billion about 24% over the last quarter and we'll see how they go this quarter again depending on refis.
Other lending subsidiaries was a very strong part for us very strong 25.6% annualized growth.
Seasonally strong performance from insurance premium finance at 36%; Sheffield prime consumer lending up 27%; Equipment Finance up almost 11%; and Regional Acceptance our sub-prime auto lender was up 15.4%.
So we expect these businesses to slowdown in the fourth quarter because it's just seasonally.
We said they would pop up in the third and they'll go down in the fourth it's very very predictable very seasonal.
Looking forward we expect average loans to decline on an annualized basis in the fourth quarter about 1% to 2%.
Now it's largely due to lower residential mortgage balances due to our loan sale and pullback on our part and prime auto lending due to tight loan spreads.
But this may change by but it's just gotten so tight it just wasn't going to -- the yields are just not good enough to be really aggressive out there.
So we're still in the business and we still love the business but we're just trying to be careful about the particular tranches that we're buying because of some tight spreads.
If you exclude the decline in residential mortgage balances we expect annualized loan growth to be a positive 1.2% and we do expect growth in direct retail commercial revolving credit and other lending subsidiaries.
So if you go to Slide 6 just a comment briefly on deposits.
Overall it's another really good deposit quarter improved deposit mix overall total cost.
As you see DDA went up 15.9% which continue to be strong growth in interest deposits and modest growth in retail.
Total deposits were up 3.1% and that's of course down from the DDA because we continue to strategically run-off some of our own time deposits which are just too expensive.
We did keep the interest-bearing cost at 26 basis points.
Total cost because of the mix change reduced from 19 basis points to 18 basis points.
Average DDA very pleased about this it's 29.2% in third quarter versus 26.8%.
So you can see several year strategy of diversification continues to work on the asset side and on liability side.
It's one of the most important things in our business today is diversification.
It's by the way one of the reasons we're having a relatively good quarter and not as worried about all the volatility in the market as some might be just because of having really strong businesses like insurance which just do not track the volatility in the stock market and capital market businesses et cetera so.
Not that we are not concerned about it but we are really glad to have that insurance under our revenue stream no pun intended.
We added $1.2 billion in deposits for Texas branch acquisition which I referred to earlier so nice continued execution on the deposit side.
We are proud of all of our people in the community bank and to other parts of our bank in capital markets corporate banking that are continuing to make that happen.
So let me turn it to Daryl now and he can give you some more detail and some color.
Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
I'm going to talk about credit quality net interest margin fee income non-interest expense capital and our segment results.
Continuing on Slide 7.
We continue to see overall improvement in credit quality.
Third quarter net charge-offs excluding cover increased slightly to 48 basis points.
Excluding $15 million net charge-offs related to the sale of residential loans mostly TDRs net charge-offs were 43 basis points basically flat from last quarter down almost 11% from the same period last year.
Additionally loans 30 to 89 and loans 90 days past due decreased compared to last quarter mostly due to the residential mortgage loans down.
Looking forward we continue to expect net charge-offs to remain between 45 basis points and 50 basis points next quarter assuming no material decline in the economy.
NPAs excluding cover declined 3.6% with a 10.2% decrease in commercial NPLs.
NPAs as a percentage of total assets remain at their lowest level since 2007 at 48 basis points.
Going forward we expect NPAs to decline modestly in the fourth quarter.
Finally performing TDRs decreased 32.5% driven by the sale of $550 million in mortgage loans.
Turning to Slide 8.
Our allowance coverage remains very strong increasing to 1.82x from 1.78x.
We had a reserve release of $17 million excluding covered activity and change in reserve for unfunded commitments and the impact to the loan sale.
This compares to $39 million relief last quarter.
Going forward we anticipate no further reserve releases.
Continuing on Slide 9.
Margin came in at 3.38% down 5 basis points from last quarter and in line with our previous expectations.
Core margin was 3.2% down 2 basis points from last quarter.
The decline was mostly a result of the impact of the covered asset portfolio partially offset by improved funding mix changes.
Core margin declined due to lower yields on new loan volume.
Looking at next quarter we expect margin to decline 3 basis points to 5 basis points due to the covered asset run-off and changes in our forecasted loan balances and yields.
Additionally we expect core margin to be relatively flat.
Net interest income should be down slightly in the fourth quarter which includes the impact of purchase accounting.
We became more asset sensitive from last quarter mainly from the asset and funding mix changes.
This improvement is partially offset by the early termination of the Federal Home Loan Bank advances.
Turning to Slide 10.
Our fee income ratio remain steady at 44% in the third quarter.
Overall non-interest income was up slightly compared to last quarter.
This was driven by improved mortgage banking service charges on deposits investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions offset by seasonally lower insurance income.
Mortgage banking income increased $21 million mostly due to higher production and gain on sale.
Services charges on deposits increased due to one additional day in the quarter and increased commercial account analysis fees.
Investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions increased due to volume.
Insurance income decreased due to seasonality and property casualty insurance commissions.
Overall we expect modest growth in fee income in the fourth quarter driven by insurance commissions and lower FDIC loss share.
Turning to Slide 11.
The efficiency ratio for the quarter was 59.7% as core expenses came in a bit higher than forecast.
Non-interest expense was $1.6 billion relatively flat compared to last quarter.
On a core basis non-interest expense was $1.4 billion.
This quarter included a $122 million loss on the unwind and $1.1 billion at Federal Home Loan Bank advances.
Personnel cost decreased $14 million from the prior quarter due to fewer FTEs and lower equity-based compensation for retirement eligible employees.
FTEs declined nearly 800 compared to last quarter.
This is the result of completion of several strategic efforts to reduce expenses and lower personnel cost.
Other expense and loan-related expense decreased a combined $118 million due to prior quarter adjustments related to the FHA insured loans originated by BB&amp;T.
Going forward we expect expenses to fall below $1.4 billion in the fourth quarter.
The main drivers will be lower personnel and legal cost operating charge-offs and loan-related expense.
We are working hard to reach the efficiency target we laid out a year ago.
The target became more difficult because changes in purchase accounting and slower mortgage revenues versus our forecast.
However as Kelly said at our Investor Day given the number of moving parts we're more likely to be in the 57% area.
We had a favorable development in a tax position with the IRS and recorded a $50 million credit in our provision.
Excluding this our effective tax rate on an adjusted basis was 26.5%.
We expect similar tax rate for the fourth quarter.
We achieved positive operating leverage and expect the same for next quarter.
Turning to Slide 12.
Capital ratios remain strong with Tier 1 common at 10.5% Tier 1 at 12.4% up from last quarter.
Our estimated Basel III common equity Tier 1 ratio improved to 10.3% at the end of the third quarter compared to 10% last quarter.
Looking at liquidity under the final rules our LCR is very strong at 132% substantially above the minimum requirement of 90% by January 1 2016.
And our liquid asset buffer at the end of the quarter was very healthy at 14.3%.
Turning to segment reporting on Slide 13.
Loan demand increased significantly versus last quarter in the community bank with C&amp;I up 6% CRE up 10% and direct retail loans up 13%.
Net income totaled $231 million up from the prior quarter.
Additionally non-interest expense declined $18 million or 11%.
In the fourth quarter we expect to achieve a full run rate from ongoing optimization efforts.
We announced two acquisitions in the third quarter both are expected to close in the first half of 2015.
We agreed to purchase 41 city branches in the Dallas Houston Midland and Odessa markets with $87 million in loans $2.3 billion in deposits.
This continues our expansion efforts in Texas.
We also announced the acquisition of The Bank of Kentucky which creates an entry point in the northern Kentucky and Greater Cincinnati.
That will mean 32 branches with $1.3 billion in loans and $1.6 billion in deposits.
Turning to Slide 14.
Residential mortgage net income rose as gain on sale margins increased to 1.1% in the third quarter from 0.95% last quarter mostly due to a stronger retail mix.
Production mix of refi to purchase was 29% to 71% consistent with prior quarter.
Originations were up 6% to $5 billion versus last quarter and credit quality remained strong.
Looking at dealer financial services on Slide 15.
Net income totaled $51 million for the quarter.
We had strong loan production in prime with 13% average loan growth and 15% for non-prime.
Asset quality for our prime auto business continues to exhibit strong performance by historical standards.
Our non-prime auto business continues to perform well within management's expectation and risk appetite.
Regional Acceptance continues to expand most recently in California Oregon and Connecticut.
Turning to Slide 16.
Our specialized lending segment had an excellent quarter earning net income of $71 million.
We had really strong loan growth in Grandbridge due partly to a new portfolio product introduced earlier this year.
Sheffield growth was strong up 27% annualized versus last quarter despite increased competition.
Equipment Finance and Premium Finance had excellent loan growth of 11% and 36% respectively.
Moving to Slide 17.
BB&amp;T Insurance net income was $36 million in the third quarter a decrease of $21 million compared to the prior quarter.
Non-interest income decreased $37 million reflecting seasonally lower property and casualty and employee benefit commissions partially offset by new business and solid customer retention rates.
Non-interest expense decreased $10 million mostly driven by lower personnel cost.
Turning to Slide 18.
Our Financial Services segment generated $71 million in net income driven by annualized loan growth in corporate banking at 19% and wealth at 37%.
Additionally we saw a transaction deposit growth of 23% and 9% annualized.
Wealth continues to grow setting record loan production for the past two quarters.
For next quarter we see additional modest credit improvement with much higher provision expense due to no further reserve releases negative annualized loan growth of 1% to 2% relatively stable revenues and a decline in non-interest expenses.
And with that let me turn it back to Kelly for closing remarks and Q&amp;A.
Thank you Daryl.
So as you can see overall we had a strong quarter solid loan and deposit growth.
Our fee strategy has been really working.
Approximately flat expenses with nice improvement opportunity in the forward based on strategies that I pointed out that are already in effect.
So we did produce operating leverage and several key strategic initiatives that will yield really good long-term benefits.
It's a tough environment from a long-term perspective.
All of our key strategies are working well so we feel really positive about our business as it is moving forward and we remain very bullish on the BB&amp;T performance from a long-term perspective.
Let me turn it to Alan now for questions.
Thank you Kelly.
At this time we'll enter at the Q&amp;A session.
Tiffany I would invite you to come back on the line and explain how participants on the call can participate in the Q&amp;A session.
(Operator Instructions) We'll go to the first question from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
A couple questions Daryl.
I wanted to just see if we could dig into the actions that you took this quarter on the early extinguishment of debt.
Maybe if you could give us a sense of what kind of benefit you're expecting that is going to drive.
Is it entirely in the 3Q run rate? And then maybe you could talk to as well other impacts from recent rate moves and how you're thinking about managing with what the markets have given us recently? So on the Federal Home Loan Bank unwind that we did that was done at the very end of the third quarter basically had almost no impact in the third quarter results.
If you look out into the fourth quarter if you look at our long-term debt line item that's probably a 13 basis point decline in our cost there.
And overall our interest bearing liabilities line item should probably be down average about 2 basis points because of that unwind.
As you look about the flattening of the curve that's occurred in the last couple of days the long-end of the curve has come down easily 50 basis points since the beginning of the quarter if you look at the tenure maybe a little bit more than that now.
If you look at our balance sheet our balance sheet is pretty well balanced.
From an asset liability perspective we're slightly asset-sensitive but we have about half of our assets that are fixed and about half are floating rate.
So with a flatter curve that does put a little bit pressure on net interest income.
I would say that net interest income would come down maybe in the 1% to 2% range if this persists next year which would be between $50 million and $100 million.
But then you also have the benefit that Kelly talked about in the beginning I mean these lower rates in just two days we've seen refi activity really spiked back up.
So we could have back to what we had three or four years ago going through the recession where you had really strong mortgage activity.
So I believe that we could have potentially offset maybe even benefit with higher mortgage revenues.
Diversification is good.
Our revenue for net interest income is only 55% fees or 45% so pretty good balance which is really why you want to be diversified and balanced overall.
But just two quick thoughts on that; one on the benefit to long-term debt and interest-bearing deposits that's baked into to your 3 basis point to 5 basis point decline in 4Q for NIM? Yes and that's helping keep our core margin stable.
That's correct.
And the LCR final rule was relatively positive for you.
Is there any actions that you're planning on taking differently as a result of that? Yes.
I think you'll see that the benefits bleed out overtime.
I mean that basically we've got a nice windfall with the treatment of public deposits and operating deposits account classifications.
I think the strategy is we basically need to have less the higher quality investment securities HQ1 securities on so we can maybe buy some more Fannie and Freddie versus Ginnie and Treasuries so that should give us some slightly higher yield benefits overtime.
I wouldn't say we would restructure the balance sheet I think we just do it as the cash flows come in.
If you look at what we've been investing in investments over the last several years we've been very diversified our investments.
We've been buying short floaters we've been buying intermediate cash flows and some longer cash flows because we really don't know which way rates are going to go it's a more diversifying strategy and I'm glad that we stayed with this strategy if this longer curve persist rather than trying to keep everything short.
I think we're very low balanced.
We'll take our next question from John Pancari with Evercore.
Could you give us some more color on the expenses in the third quarter and maybe how the number has changed versus your expectation that you gave at the Analyst Day.
I think you had indicated slightly below $1.4 billion in total expenses and that came in just above and how that maybe impacting your outlook for the fourth quarter? And then separately if you could talk about '15 expense run rate? So John as I've mentioned at the Investor Day we try to be very transparent in January because obviously our expenses had shot up in '13 and so we said then which we said repeatedly that we thought that the expenses ratio this year would end in the fourth quarter in the 56% range.
Three weeks or so ago at Investor Day to give a little more transparency I said remember you have numerator denominator.
We have more control over the numerate than the denominator and so whether it's high 56% or low 57% I think it's just not that precise.
That went backing up on the context because in the context I said 56% range but anyway it is challenging to get expenses down today.
I'll be very honest.
I mean it's a really different environment because we happen to invest a lot in technology and regulatory systems and process changes.
On the other hand we've been really aggressive this whole year and it hadn't shown up yet but we've been really aggressive this whole year in terms of making any kind of changes.
Daryl said in the third quarter FTEs is up 800 and that was just kind of executed towards the end of the third quarter which takes it into fourth.
And so that's a big part of why we feel confident and are still saying we'll be down maybe not 56% and probably 57% as the way it looks at this point.
But again if revenue were to kick up we still -- you just don't know it's just not that precise.
We just want to dislodge ourselves a little bit from being so exaggerated.
We tried to say range in the beginning to make that clear but I understand the context of your question.
The third quarter if you take out the extinguishment it was $35 million over the $1.4 billion.
We have pretty big business today.
We have got $5.5 billion all in the expense range $35 million is not that much.
But we feel confident we'll be under the $1.4 billion for the fourth as we go into the '15.
All the strategy that we've put in place will be continued.
They are not something that we did just for one quarter.
That would be continuous.
Now there will be other factors that may impact expenses for '15 for example it's rates really drop you've got some impact on pension expense and so forth.
So it's too early to know exactly what's dropping the expenses.
But those are factors that are not in short-term controllable by management.
What we can control or reconceptualize by restructuring our businesses so that they run more efficiently even in this very tight environment we're in today.
All of the things we said in the beginning of the year have been done.
They are now in execution and it's just about time for the run rate flow through the fourth quarter.
So I understand there is a lot of questions about that but we were confident of what we said in the beginning of the year is exactly what we would executed on and we'll continue that Daryl as just said as we head through '15.
And then with that commentary just how you've reconceptualized everything given the topline environment given the difficult yield curve here can you talk about '15 in terms of efficiency ratio expectation.
Is it fair to assume that we're looking at a 57% full year efficiency ratio for the full year of 2015? Well I think it's fair to say that if everything were constant then I'd say it's 57% for '15.
But as you know John this is -- I mean during the last two days we had some more volatility we've had two years and prior to that it has been really volatile.
So for me to sit here and say a number with regard efficiency at this point would be really maybe not being forthright because again the revenue side I can't control.
I mean if rates were really low we'll get NIM pressure but we'll get fee income increase in terms of mortgages.
I don't expect any material changes in terms of a basic run rate expenses that we control because we can control FTEs and we can control an awful lot of our expense structure.
So given what I know today I would say I am pretty comfortable for the year with kind of a range of 57% but there will be volatility within the course of that given what happens on any one quarter with regard to our revenues.
And then as I said we have -- we do have one unusual fairly large item for us and that's pension.
And the way you probably know that works is based on discount rate at the very end of the year.
If 10 years goes back up then those expenses will be very low for us and if they go really low then they will be spike enough.
To be honest I don't worry much about that as I do how many people do you have and how many branches do you have and fundamental day-to-day operating expenses that you can manage is more of a non-manageable expense.
But I will tell you that I feel very confident in terms of maintaining the efficient structure that we have today and even beginning to see smaller than this year but incrementally improvements even as we go forward.
But the big kick for us and everybody else in this business is getting revenue lift.
So if we can keep expenses next year in the 57% range with a kind of modest growth we're expecting that would be a wonderful thing.
If the economy gets a lot better everything gets better.
Understood.
And we'll go next to John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Daryl I was wondering about the mortgage banking revenues were strong this quarter and you mentioned the better gain on sale margin with the retail mix improving.
Did you see that kind of gain on sale as sustainable? And just on the origination front do you expect things to be seasonally lower in the fourth quarter before any refi impact? Yes.
I mean the gain on sale was really driven by the retail activity plus we had a little bit of increase in our correspondence spreads.
So I would say gain on sale spreads prior to the last couple of days we would have expected to be pretty much consistent in the fourth quarter but the last few days we've had spike up in activity.
We have a lot more refi activity.
If that really comes through rather than having softer volume seasonally in the fourth quarter then you could actually have that as an offset which could be a windfall for us and the industry on mortgage revenues.
It's too early to call but we definitely saw spikes up in refi volume in the last two days.
So I would say mortgage revenue is a wild card right now.
Maybe down a little bit but could be actually better than what we saw in this quarter depending on what happens to refis.
And can you just remind us on the insurance seasonality then when you go from third to fourth you typically get that $40 million to $50 million back.
John this is Chris.
We won't get the whole thing back.
You're probably looking at something like a 2% to 3% bump up in fourth.
The strongest quarter is first followed by second followed by fourth and third is our lowest seasonal quarter.
And just on the credit.
On the credit side Daryl how much of that 40 to 50 basis points change-off guidance is kind of a pickup from seasonality you mentioned? Hey John this is Clarke Starnes.
We always have defined seasonality in the fourth -- really the second half of the year but particularly in the fourth quarter in our non-prime auto business and so really all of the fourth quarter guidance around losses is around the non-prime seasonality.
Otherwise we feel very good about the stability in the credit trends otherwise.
And do you expect to start building reserves if loan growth continues kind of in the mid-single digit pace Daryl or Clarke? We certainly at this point as we said do not anticipate further reserves based on where our credit trends are and so we would assume kind of stable reserves unless we had substantial growth and then we would have to pick up provisioning them.
You mean growth beyond what you've had recently? That's right.
We'll take our next question from Matt O'Connor from Deutsche Bank.
Just a follow up on some of the expense commentary and I guess the pension comments specifically.
It would be helpful if you could let us know what the pension cost were running this year and did you have any sensitivities if rates just stay at these levels just how meaningful that might be for next fiscals? I would say our pension cost this year were basically pretty much zero expense maybe a slight credit due to what happened with rates a year ago.
If rates were to stay where they are today so that would be down basically about a 100 basis points from last year you could probably see about $100 million increase in pension expense next year.
And that could be offset somewhat because one of the other factors in this is when rate truly dropped and the field expectations are down for the next year we're able to put additional funding into our pension program and we always keep it fully funded as much as IRS allows and that could offset that a bit.
Yes that would be actually my follow-up question since you have excess capital and there's not a ton of balance sheet growth it seems like you've got some flexibility to add there.
Yes.
Absolutely.
We'll add to the max.
And then just following up on the mortgage refi comment I realize this is all very real-time but a couple of days ago Wells had said not really any signs of a pick-up in refis obviously since then rates have come down another 20 bps and I am just trying to compare the two I don't know if its just too real time to reconcile or if another 20 basis points decline rates actually makes that much of a difference? It's just a real time.
Daryl sent me out some numbers couple of days ago two days our productions almost doubled.
Say it was up about 30% in the last two days.
Yes right.
So it's incredibly hard to predict right now.
And I think we'll would tell you that it's a long time between Monday and Thursday.
Yes I think most equity investors and banks stocks right now say the same thing.
We'll take our next question from Erika Najarian with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
My first question Kelly just a follow-up on John's line of questioning maybe I'll take the other side of the efficiency equation.
You clearly have been good at controlling things that you can't control.
As we look out in 2015 one of the revenue generating initiatives that you've invested in over the past year that you think could provide a benefit or lift revenues even absent help from rate backdrop? Well I think you've got kind of couple of things.
You've got just a continuing and building revenue lift coming from the community bank it just keeps getting better day by day because overall the markets are getting better.
And frankly a lot of strategies that Ricky put in place are just getting better.
It's kind of independent of a unique strategy that's kind of a general strategy.
Our insurance business continues to get better everyday.
The investment in Crump and all of those businesses are just really really clicking they get better everyday.
The new markets that we're in is really is kind of an exponential thing.
When you go into the market like Texas it takes you while to get your feet on the ground and then you're building on again improving on what you have then you layer in a couple of new investments like the two city tranches.
That gets better.
We'll have the opportunity in the Greater Cincinnati market.
So there are number of topline initiatives that will positively impact that ratio as well.
So I think the final one I would point out is that our wealth strategy is really really working.
I mean it's probably still got another two or three years of legs because we were kind of behind to be honest.
And Chris have done a great job of working with our wealth team and if they integrate with the community bank I mean it is just gaining momentum certainly everyday.
So I'd isolate all those particular ones but there are some others but those would be the main ones.
And my second question is do you think that there could be an inflection point in the M&amp;A environment in terms of seller willingness if the curve continues to be this flat going into next year or said another way do you expect lower for longer to drive the propensity for conversations for potential sellers? I would say lower for longer leads to longing for improvement and that causes people to really rethink everything to be honest.
I think it's an insightful question Erika.
Yes I think that everybody is already feeling the pressure.
I mean if you read commentary from community and midsize bank they will tell you that they are fighting everyday and we're all fighting but they're really struggling because an awful lot of the regulatory and technological costs pushed straight down to them just like they do us.
And they are saying they have really competitive conditions out there in terms of lending.
So I think every time you add one more weight on the challenges and lower longer is another weight it causes people to think more seriously about strategic opportunities.
And I would expect it to stay a little longer that would create -- if not an outright discernible inflection point it will certainly create higher propensity of M&amp;A activity.
Are the regulators thinking as fluidly and that obviously you are able to get some smaller deals done but do you think some of the logged down and some of the more sizable deals can break as well.
Just your thoughts there too and I'll step off.
Yes.
So I'll tell you what I think with regard to what the regulators think but obviously no one knows for sure.
But I believe the regulators are becoming pretty realistic with regard to this.
I think they recognize that the industry needs to consolidate.
I think they recognize that there is a lot of skill issues around a lot of investment companies are having to make to meet the regulatory standards in terms of risk improvement practices liquidity improvement capital stronger etc.
And so yes I think the regulators are beginning to warm up to the idea of the need for consolidation.
I think the key thing is they are not backing down in terms of their absolute expectations with regard to almost a zero-tolerance with regard to risk management and compliance initiatives.
And so if the acquirer has invested the right time and money and has the right attitude with regard to investing in those processes and procedures then I think the regulators will probably look pretty favorably on that acquisition.
If they've not then I think they'll go will kill it dead in its tracks.
We'll take our next question from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Daryl just with the couple of DOs coming on and you guys making some adjustments with debt retirement piece; I just wanted to see if you can help us understand just the total size of the balance sheet and how it should progress.
So you're bringing on a lot more deposits than loans but I'm wondering if that leads to balance sheet growth or are you actually going to continue to mix other parts of the balance sheet from here.
Now that's a good question Ken.
I would tell you from the city Texas branches what we did with the first acquisition and what we're going to do with this second acquisition is you really won't see hardly any balance sheet growth.
We're just going to replace some non-client national market funding with these core deposits.
So it basically just improves our overall client funding and improves our liquidity and everything so all that comes in and we still get a benefit because city deposits were actually cheaper than our deposits so we'll have a benefit there.
And as Ricky gets that done then you get more revenue over time from those new markets that we're in.
With the Bank of Kentucky that is basically is going to come in; I would say our balance sheet won't grow with that probably little less than $2 billion $1.5 billion to $2 billion because that's a full bank with deposits and loans and we have a good loan portfolio that's going to come in to the market.
So the market value on the loan portfolio won't be significant enough.
So it's pretty much going to come in as you see it up for the most part.
So I would say about $2 billion higher after we close both of those transactions.
And then on the securities portfolio side you had mentioned that you'll be able to just kind of use the cash flows to remix in these LCR free-up.
Has the portfolio size also gotten to be around the same level and from here it's more just about the remixing? Yes.
I would say our portfolio is just a tad over $40 billion.
That should probably stay pretty much consistent right now through 2015.
We have very strong liquidity ratios and I think we're fine from that perspective.
So I think we'll continue to invest in the very diversified portfolio some short intermediate and some longer very good diversification but I think the size stays pretty much the same.
So then if I would wrap up then it basically means that x that $2 billion from the Bank of Kentucky deal then your earning asset growth will probably be a little bit lower than your loan growth from here? I mean the earning assets were basically just be a function of what comes in with Bank of Kentucky so that's $1.6 billion.
It mean x that just from a -- like if the portfolio is about the same and basically your loan growth is going to drive your -- loan growth will really drive your earning asset growth from here on.
Yes.
So let's say if we grow loans call it 4% next year our earning assets will be a little less than that because securities are flat.
We'll go next to Gaston Ceron with Morningstar Equity Research.
I just wanted to stay on the M&amp;A theme just for a moment.
I think you gentleman discussed your new position in Texas after this branch deal I think you said you were now looking at being on the 13<sup>th</sup> spot there in Texas and still not in top five.
So I'm just curious if you can look out a little bit further and just comment on your further aspirations in Texas and how you expect to kind of break into a top five and any kind of timeframe that that might take you? Well I think our strategy for Texas going forward will be multifaceted because we primarily focused on organic growth.
We have really good base now of 120 branches and we can grow really fast off of that base organically.
As we have been we will continue to look for partners in Texas.
There are a number of institutions there that would make good partners for us we believe.
But the Texas Bank has done a really good job and it's a really good market and their price to earnings is really high.
And today I would not be willing to pay that kind of price that would be required to buy those institutions.
So I think looking at us in terms of any whole bank acquisitions in Texas odds of that is pretty low unless things change materially which I do not expect.
So we'll look for opportunities like this city.
There could be some more of those in Texas.
We would be very aggressive in that.
But we'll focus at this point primarily organically in Texas.
Now keep in mind we are not unilaterally focused on Texas.
We have other expansion opportunities.
We overtime we will continue to look for opportunities through M&amp;A to expand in Florida and maybe in other core existing markets.
We certainly over time had indicted that we will continue to look at expansions that are natural extensions of our existing footprint.
So you can see that out into the Midwest maybe push it a little North.
We're up there in the Baltimore area and so some areas up around there are kind of beginning to make some sense.
So like we have always done it's kind of a strategic creep.
You're unlikely to see us do something really big and whopping way out away from where we are.
You're more likely to see us do what we've done which is natural creeping.
And you can say we wouldn't have creeped in Texas that was a pretty big leap it was but it came -- it was intuitive because of the way it came along with the Colonial acquisition.
And then once we had that beachhead just decided to take advantage of it.
So the natural extension program is growing incrementally in contiguous markets.
We'll go next to Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Can you guys share with us you mentioned in your prepared remarks that there's increased competition for the participation loans that you've got on your books -- excuse me that you put on your books.
Can you tell us how large that portfolio is and where there maybe some concentrations and where you are seeing the competition being the most intense? Our shared credit portfolio we have about $22 billion in commitment that's a little under $9 billion in outstandings.
And it grew about 13.5% on a linked quarter.
So very nice book for you us good growth.
Nothing has changed around our focus on conservative hold sizes so our average exposures in that book is about $38 million.
So it's really fairly modest relative to our size.
So we are seeing more in the non-leverage space which you know we don't participate in the leverage side.
We're seeing more structural concessions in that area really broad based.
So what's happen is the leverage sides had a lot more attention and there has clearly been the pullback on the bank side.
We're seeing more competition in the non-leverage space that we participate in so we're having to be very cautious and careful about that.
But it's really broad based it's not in any one particular sector as far as the competitive side.
As far as our distribution we don't have any particular concentration.
So for us it's very broad based and diversified primarily around the industry verticals that we cover out of our capital markets area.
Are the agents primarily the New York banks or who puts together the participation that you guys are most often joining? The real larger banks not just the large New York banks that includes large regionals as well.
So we share credits with our peer bank regional partners as well.
So it's really both.
And then a follow-up on the Investor Day you guys were talking about return of capital and obviously with the third quarter results these are the results that you'll put into your CCAR submission in 2015 with a very strong Tier 1 common ratio of over 10%.
Two parts; one what do you guys see in terms of how much maybe you'll ask for? Obviously last year it was around 30% if I recall.
I would assume it would be something higher.
And then second what's your comfort level on your Tier 1 Basel III common ratio? Where you think you could have that eventually get to? Well Gerard as you know we've been cautious in terms of trying to establish absolute because this is still a moving target.
Although I am very pleased that we're beginning to get some specificity we still don't have the topline corporate unsecured debt requirement that's not out there.
We don't think it's been an issue for us because we think we're already where everybody is glad to be and we don't expect any substantial capital charge for us because of the [ph] G50 charges.
So if you assume that the Tier 1 common is around 7% I would say generally we are comfortable in the 8.5% kind of range but we would keep a cushion above that for various reasons.
Today the cushion is because of waiting for things to settle on down a bit more.
The global economic environment is pretty volatile but there is opportunity there.
Now do we use that opportunity in terms of stronger organic growth maybe so but not highly likely to be honest and we will have good growth but then stocks will be enough to absorb capital.
Well we think in terms of dividend increase here but not enough to really absorb the capital so that gets you to M&amp;A and buybacks.
And so I would project or what I prefer would be able to absorb some of that through M&amp;A activity.
So if we can for example like you saw us do in Bank of Kentucky if we can do 80-20 70-30 kind of acquisition where we can absorb capital that way and be a strategic attractive opportunity it's just a win-win.
Will we consider buybacks yes.
Now I try to remind everybody that you got to remember when you talk about buybacks you got to look at absolute price and the internal rate of return on the investment.
So we're not going to go out and buyback just to reduce capital we'd rather hold on little excess capital and buy it on a dip.
But yes I think there is some opportunity there.
I'm hesitant to nail it down exactly whether it's 8.5% or 9.25% it will not be that exact about it because we're going to be flexible and always have opportunity to respond in current conditions.
But I think in here Gerard and your basic question is is there a meaningful opportunity for us to increase distributions to our shareholders through some combination practically M&amp;A and buybacks and the answer would be yes.
We'll take our next question from Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
On Slide 6 you showed a very good increasing average non-interest bearing deposits.
Can you give us some color there because that's some pretty substantial growth? And then with the two acquisitions one in Texas and the one in Kentucky I mean how much more can this grow when those other banks come underneath your ownership? So you're right it is very strong.
It's driven primarily by two general factors.
One is the community bank is doing a really good job in terms of growing non-interest deposits in its structure.
Remember that the community bank independent of the recent acquisition has a lot of new markets Florida Atlanta; all of these are still relatively new for us since every time we're growing in new commercial accounts we are increasing DDA.
And so we've got that we've got the Texas situation we described the Kentucky situation.
So the community bank is going to be continuing to have accelerated non-interest bearing deposit growth because of the older if you will new markets and then Texas and Kentucky.
The other factor that is driving that is a very very well executed national corporate banking capital market strategy.
That strategy we put in place about four or five years ago.
It is just being executed to precision.
We've got to a guy named Rufus Yates is on our executive team.
He is very experienced in that area and he's doing a fantastic job as are all of the members of that team.
And so every time we go into Chicago or Cleveland or San Francisco or New York with our capital market structure and this is people on ground now.
You know we're putting people on the ground pursuing those corporate relationships because as Clark continues to say we are not going to just go out and buy participation we're not going to out and initiate relationships out of market where we don't have people on the ground.
So I now define the corporate banking strategy market as a national market.
But when we are out there picking up those relationships that's adding on a very very low base.
And so the combination of the community bank excellent execution and the corporate bank excellent execution has given us really good non-interest bearing deposits growth.
And I think that will continue for quite a long.
And is there other services coming along is other fee services coming along with these products? Yes absolutely.
Because one of the things Paul that happens in these is it's not always but almost always a credit requirement that go along with these and relatively thinly priced.
But we are very diligent about our total return expectations.
And we're fortunate that we have really really good product offerings.
We have of course all the treasury and all that that everybody else has but we're unique in having really good insurance offerings.
And so we do a really good job in terms of over a two to three-year period of time getting pretty good penetration of those large corporate clients.
We often time start out with credit and insurance and in a lot of cases we found we already have credit and now I mean we already have insurance through our large national insurance deliverer and we add credit and other things to it.
So it's not easy I'll say that but we've been very successful at it.
We'll take our next question from Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
I understand the drivers of the revised efficiency ratio and some of the challenges you're having in terms of expenses in the current environment.
Just looking into 2015 Daryl I know you've got some expenses related to some of the back office improvement that you're doing with some of the systems.
Given some of the headline recently about cyber-security is that an area where you could see some incremental increase in cost over the next year or two or is that largely embedded into your thinking with the newer systems? I'll answer that one for you.
We are investing and we'll continue to incrementally increase our investment into overall cyber-security information security space.
I have been very active on a national level in terms of chairing the BITS the Financial Services Roundtable and have been really concerned and outspoken frankly about the need for all of us to invest more.
So BB&amp;T has been focused on this really for the last two or three years at a very intense level.
But even so just in the last six to eight months Chris Henson and I did a deep dive in terms of our security procedures and what we felt really good about what we were we decided to enhance at a substantially increased level.
So why we won't be doubling for example in a year or something like that it will be one of the few expense categories that's given a pretty green light in terms of making investments necessary because we are not going to take this risk.
There is risk in that I don't care what you do but if there are known risk that we find that we can mitigate we're going to do it.
Daryl a follow-up question for you.
In terms of the loss sharing income with the change in or the expiration of the commercial loss sharing agreement at the beginning of this month.
Should we see a ramp down in terms of that counter of fee revenue item going into 2015 or is that going to stay relatively elevated? You know what I would say Matt is that fourth quarter numbers will start to come down the negative loss share amount.
As you get into '15 I would have it continuing come down every quarter thereafter.
It won't be zero by the end of '15 but it will probably be half of what it is today so that drag really starts to fade away as the pace of that falls off.
Due to time restraints we will turn the call back over to Alan Greer at this time.
Thank you Tiffany and thanks again to everyone for joining us today.
This concludes our earnings call.
Have a good day.
And that concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the BB&amp;T Corporation Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference.
Currently all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
As a reminder this event is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Alan Greer of Investor Relations for BB&amp;T Corporation.
Thank you Kim and good morning everyone.
Thanks to all of our listeners for joining us today.
We have with us Kelly King our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Daryl Bible our Chief Financial Officer who will review the results for the fourth quarter of 2014.
We also have other members of our Executive Management team who are with us to participate in the Q&amp;A session; Chris Henson our Chief Operating Officer; Ricky Brown the President of Community Banking; and Clarke Starnes our Chief Risk Officer.
We will be referencing a slide presentation during our comments today.
A copy of the presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental financial information are available on the BB&amp;T website.
Before we begin let me remind you that BB&amp;T does not provide public earnings predictions or forecasts.
However there may be statements made during the course of this call that express management's intentions beliefs or expectations.
BB&amp;T's actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the forward-looking statement warnings in our presentation and in our SEC filings.
In addition please note that our presentation does include certain non-GAAP disclosures.
Please refer to page two and the appendix of our presentation for the appropriate reconciliations to GAAP.
And now I'll turn it over to Kelly.
Thanks Alan and good morning everybody.
Thanks for your interest in our company.
We really appreciate you joining our call.
Overall I'd say we had a very strong fourth quarter frankly with almost every area being positive.
Solid loan growth strong non-interest -- deposit growth really good fee income very effective expense control and frankly our overall diversification strategy is really kicking in and really making a difference.
We had record earnings for the full year of 2014 and for the fourth quarter.
Net income for the year was $2 billion at 28% over 2013.
I remembered in 2013 we did have a significant tax adjustment.
Fourth quarter earnings totaled $557 million up 3.7% versus fourth quarter.
So diluted EPS totaled $0.76 for the fourth quarter up 1.3%.
Diluted EPS was $2.75 for the year versus $2.19 which was up 25.6%.
Very strong ROA of 1.3% for the quarter so we felt really good about that.
Revenue I was pleased with was $2.4 billion up 9.2% versus the third quarter.
So revenue increase was really due to higher mortgage banking income seasonally stronger insurance record quarter for investment banking and brokerage.
Very pleased at our fee income ratio with a record 45.8%.
In terms of lending our average loans excluding residential mortgage grew 3.2% versus the third quarter.
Growth was led by C&amp;I CRE direct retail and other lending I'll have a few more comments about that in just a minute.
We did announce an agreement to acquire Susquehanna Bancshares as you probably know we’re very excited about this.
It’s a significant merger $18.6 billion in assets $13.6 billion in deposits for 245 retail branches.
I've had the opportunity over the last several weeks to visit a lot of their branches visit a lot of their clients a lot of their community leaders.
I'll tell you it's a really great company strong culture strong community focus looks just like BB&amp;T.
To be honest I felt a lot better about the acquisition today than when we announced in November and I felt really good then.
This is a really good company and is going to work out to be a really really important part of our franchise.
Also the Bank of Kentucky is proceeding very very well.
We're going to really enjoy that opportunity in Northern Kentucky and Cincinnati great opportunity for us.
Also a second group of Citi branches are moving right along in terms of the approval process.
I'll point out that at this point we anticipate no problems in terms of the approvals.
Sort of no guarantees in this world but everything is tracking along very normally and we anticipate no difficulties in that area.
With regard to the expenses I’d just point out that our adjusted non-interest expense was $1.38 billion down 12.8% versus the third quarter.
Our efficiency ratio was 56.7.
I'd like to tell you I was traveling and when the numbers were coming in Daryl sent me an email and said we will have 56 handle on our efficiency ratio and I replied him back and said God is good.
As you all know we were working really really hard to get a 56 handle and we did.
So ex-the unusual items we were below our $1.4 billion target which we had indicated we thought we could do.
So I'm really pleased about where we are with regard to expense focus.
We have a really healthy and intense focus on expenses.
Getting much better at distinguishing between what I call routine expenses which in today's environment you really have to manage very intensely and expense investments which support improved risk management revenue growth.
So we can talk about more of that in the Q&amp;A but I just would say that we are really really maturing into an excellent expense management company.
That hadn't always been our strong suit to be honest but we're really really getting to be very good about that today.
If you follow along on the slides look at slide four I just want to emphasize a couple of special items for the quarter.
We did have a mortgage reserve adjustment which we had mentioned earlier in the quarter.
That settled down at $27 million pretax so it was $0.02 negative impact to EPS.
We did have a franchise tax benefit adjustment which was a positive $15 million pretax which was $0.01.
We did have an allowance release related to a loan sale.
Recall we sold about $140 million of mostly non-performing loans which generated a pretax $24 million increase or gain which was a positive $0.02 and then we did have some regular merger-related restructuring charges which were $18 million pretax and a negative $0.02 with regard to operating type of EPS.
So if you put all that together it kind of washes out with a net of $0.01 negative to GAAP.
In other words GAAP would be $0.01 lower than what we would consider to be kind of ongoing types of earnings.
If you look at page five I want to spend a minute or two with you with regard to a little color on loans.
So in a loan growth area we feel really good about our performance particularly given the market conditions.
It’s a relatively slow economy out there still.
It's growing 2.5% to 3% which is okay better than a few years ago but not robust.
Competition is still tough but we remain where we've been consistently through the whole cycle focused on long-term profitable loan growth with good risk-adjusted returns.
We're just not going to be changing quarter-to-quarter.
You can probably listen to these calls going back over several years and you’d hear me and Clarke say the same thing.
That's what you will continue to hear.
And we're going to make our overall loan growth improvement through strategies and diversification versus changes in terms of underwriting which to some degree is going on in the marketplace.
So if you look at some of the components very pleased.
Our C&amp;I growth was 4.7%.
That's been largely in large corporate mortgage warehouse mostly larger participations which of course are pretty competitive and pretty thinly priced but still improving there for us.
Our CRE income-producing was 3.2%.
CRE construction which we've been really forcing or pushing to try to improve was up 15.2% and I'm pleased that was very broad-based.
Single-family vertical construction is beginning to move after being down flat for a long time; industrial hospitality retail really good.
Multifamily was flat which is think is probably an indication that the market is slowing a little bit in that area which is good.
It was getting a bit too heated.
So if you look at our overall commercial it's 5% for the quarter.
Direct retail is strong at 8.7% and frankly our momentum there is really really good led by HELOC and although wearing some other product focus areas in there.
Rick and his team have done a fantastic job in developing some real strategies.
We feel better about our retail execution in our branches than we felt in 10 years.
So that's going really really well.
Sales finance is down 2.5% but that's just strictly seasonal.
You'll notice the residential mortgage is down 11.8%.
As we telegraphed before we made a decision early in 2014 second quarter to start selling basically all of our conforming loan production and we had the impact of two mortgage sales.
So basically mortgage activity is down about $1 billion for the year.
So that's a pretty big change.
It's strategically exactly where we want to be and we feel good about that.
But it does impact the total numbers; you just need to take that into account.
So if you look at our total growth ex-covered of course which are running off I try to look at kind of how we ought to think about kind of core run rate loan growth and so if you take -- ex-mortgage ex-covered and then if you simply take out the sales finance and after case which are most seasonally affected in the fourth quarter categories we would be growing about 6.2%.
So feel really good about that that level of core growth.
Obviously the total growth matters in terms of the income statement but the core growth is what matters in terms of going forward and how we think about future earnings opportunities.
So I just wanted to point out that in our portfolio there's a lot of questions today about oil and gas.
We have a $1.4 billion oil and gas portfolio.
I would point out that 78% of that is upstream 89% of it is reserve base 17% is midstream and only 5% service -- oilfield services.
And so we viewed at the highest risk part of this businesses is an oilfield services so we're in the least risky part of the business.
We're lending on proven reserves.
We stress tested our portfolio all the way down to $40 and have very little problems even at $40.
So we just don't think oil and gas is that issue for us frankly relative to our total portfolio.
We do expect loan growth in the first quarter to be 5% to 7% excluding mortgage and frankly that's because all of our key strategies are working.
Corporate is up 23% this quarter.
So that's really got legs and has a good bit more potential as we go forward over the next two or three years.
CRE is coming back at 5.6% and that has strong legs.
Retail as I indicated is 8% and gaining momentum.
Wealth is really really strong being driven by a lot of support out of the community bank; specializing business is growing very very well.
We of seasonality there but aside from seasonality they are just doing really really well across the Board.
And plus add to that in terms of our diversification strategy our insurance business is just doing fantastic as Daryl will cover it just a little bit.
So overall I feel really good about our loan execution particularly given the market.
If the market gets better then we will get better.
If the rates go up we'll get better spreads.
That would be good.
But for the time being we're assuming that the year is going to be relatively challenging in the first half probably get a little better in the second half.
We think the Fed will raise rates about the middle of the year notwithstanding what's going on globally and we think there will be some positives kicked in oil prices pretty soon.
And so we are thinking as we head into second half of the year that there will be some upward pressure on interest rates and that will serve us and the industry as well.
But even if that doesn’t happen we are hunkered down and assuming that it is relatively tough year and we are focusing on execution on our diversification strategies and their working.
If you look at page six just a brief comment deposit growth continuing to work really really well non-interest bearing DDAs up 10.7%.
Some good category performances personnel business and public fund DDA growth was 11.8 12.3 and 16 respectively versus the fourth quarter of 2013.
So we feel good about that.
I would point out that our non-interest bearing deposit mix is up to 30% from 21.1% and I think about five years ago it was about 15%.
So we've made dramatic improvement in that area over the last several years.
Again I’d just point that out to illustrate that our diversification strategy is working on asset side and on the liability side.
Importantly our cost and total deposits was 0.25% in the fourth versus 0.28% in the earlier period and so we are continuing to bring our cost down which we feel good about.
So that’s a little color with regard to loans and deposits.
Let me turn it to Daryl now to give you some color on some of the key areas.
Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
I'm going to talk about credit quality net interest margin fee income non-interest expense capital and our segment results.
Continuing on slide seven.
We are pleased to report a very strong fourth quarter.
This was partly driven by the improvement we saw in credit quality.
Net charge-offs were better than expected coming in at 39 basis points down 18%.
Excluding Regional Acceptance charge-offs were 21 basis points.
Loans 30 to 89 and 90 days past due decreased mostly due to loans acquired from the FDIC that were performing low.
By the way the commercial loss sharing agreement expired last quarter so we don’t refer to them as covered loans any more.
However we continue to have 654 million of mortgages covered under our consumer loss share agreement for the next five years.
We expect net charge-offs to remain between 40 and 45 basis points next quarter assuming no material decline in the economy.
NPAs declined 16.7% versus third quarter primarily due to residential mortgage loan sale and a decrease in commercial NPLs of 10.1%.
NPAs as a percentage of total assets remained at the lowest level since 2007 at 42 basis points.
We completed our second loan sell this quarter selling 140 million of mostly non-performing mortgage loans.
We received excellent pricing on the transaction.
The sell also improve servicing efficiency going forward.
Turning to side eight.
Our allowance coverage remains very strong increasing to 3.2 times from 2.8 times last quarter.
Let me highlight our core provision since we had some noise this quarter.
We recorded provision of 84 million excluding loans acquired from the FDIC and the provision was reduced by a pre-tax 24 million from the loan sell.
Our core provision was a $108 million compared to charge-offs of $102 million a modest build.
Going forward we continue to anticipate no reserve releases.
Continuing on slide nine net interest margin was 3.36% this quarter down two basis points a bit better than our expectations.
Core margin was 3.20 stable compared to last quarter.
The small decline in GAAP margin resulted from lower loan balances and lower yields on new loans offset by stronger interest recoveries lower funding cost and a change in a funding mix.
Looking at next quarter we expect GAAP margin to decline in the mid-single digits given that rates have fallen plus continued runoff of loans acquired from the FDIC.
Core margin should remain fairly stable in light of our ability to offset lower new loans yields with improved funding mix.
We expect net interest income to be down a bit due to margin decline and two fewer days.
We remain slightly asset sensitive and continue to be in a good position to benefit when interest rates start to rise.
Turning to slide 10 we had a really strong quarter from a fee income produced in businesses.
Our fee income ratio improved to a record 45.8% for the quarter.
Total fee income exceeded $1 billion; a 29% annualized increase compared with last quarter.
This performance was led by insurance up $24 million primarily due to seasonal strength in property and casualty commissions.
In addition mortgage banking increased $21 million driven by the revaluation of MSR higher gain on sale spreads and stronger commercial mortgage volume.
BB&amp;T Capital Markets had a record quarter led by both equity and fixed income businesses resulting from a $17 million increase in investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions.
Turning to slide 11 our adjusted non-interest expense totaled $1.38 billion for the quarter down 13% compared with adjusted expenses from last quarter.
This excludes relevant items that Kelly discussed on page four of our presentation.
Expenses benefited this quarter from lower insurance related costs lower FTEs and a decrease in IT expenses.
Combined with solid growth in revenues we achieved our goal of efficiency ratio of 56.7% for the quarter.
Looking at taxes our effective tax rate was 27.9% and should increase to about 30% in the first quarter.
This increase will be driven by the adoption of new tax credit accounting the first quarter which will show higher non-interest income and income taxes.
Looking forward the first quarter is seasonally challenging driven by two fewer days higher fringe costs and higher pension cost due to lower interest rates.
Turning to slide 12.
Capital ratios remained very strong with Tier 1 common at 10.6% and Tier 1 at 12.4%.
Our estimated Basel III common equity Tier 1 ratio was strong at 10.3%.
Capital ratios were affected by the expiration of the commercial loss share agreement which increased the bank’s risk weighted assets.
Looking at liquidity our LCR was very strong at 130% substantially above the minimum requirement of 90% by 2016.
And our liquid asset buffer at the end of the quarter was very healthy at 13.6%.
Looking briefly at our segments.
On slide 13 community bank had a very good quarter with segment net income up 10% compared with last quarter.
Largely due to lower credit and personnel cost.
On slide 14 the mortgage segment performed better versus like and linked quarters driven by improved gain on sale margins better MSR performance and lower provision due to loan sales.
On slide 15 the dealer financial services had a decline in segment income due to higher provision expenses driven by seasonally higher net charge-offs in Regional Acceptance.
On slide 16 specialized lending was down versus linked quarter driven by seasonality in Sheffield and premium finance.
On slide 17 insurance had a strong quarter due to strong insurance commissions at Crump Life at McGriff Seibels &amp; Williams plus improved operating margins.
On slide 18 financial services segment net income was up driven by BB&amp;T Capital Partners and Investment Banking.
In summary we had a really strong quarter driven by credit quality fee income and lower expenses.
We continue to make investments in systems and processes which will pay off in a long run.
Now let me turn it back over to Kelly for his closing remarks and Q&amp;A.
Thanks Daryl.
As you've heard it really was an excellent quarter solid loan growth and very strong fee income.
Very pleased about our expense control focus.
All of our key strategies are working.
We are very excited about our mergers.
To be honest relative to the market I feel really good about our future performance and look forward to discussing that you as we go forward.
So I will turn it back to Alan for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Kelly.
At this time we will begin our Q&amp;A session.
Kim if you would come back on explain how our listeners can participate in this session.
Absolutely.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from John McDonald of Sanford Bernstein.
Yes hi.
Good morning.
Wondering about the efficiency ratio Daryl and Kelly do you have a target for this year and kind of how you are thinking about the revenue to expense relationship for 2015? I know you said that first quarter Daryl you've got some seasonal pressure on the efficiency ratio.
How are you thinking about it in terms of goals for the full year? So John I want to give you -- and I appreciate that is the first question because I wanted to kind of address that philosophically.
To be honest last year we spent a lot of time and focus on efficiency ratio because we had the unusual situation where our expenses had popped up at the end of 2013 and there was lot of concern that our efficiency ratios will go on to 59 60 whatever.
And we knew that was not going to happen and so we set a target of in the 56 range for the year and we ended up making it.
But as you know it was a little up and down and this is as you just pointed out it’s a tricky ratio because you can manage your expenses more carefully than you can manage revenues and revenues vary a lot and that impact from a denominator point of view really makes thedifference.
So we’re not going to set an efficiency ratio for this year because I just don’t want to spend that much energy worrying about exactly whether it’s 56 or 57 or 58.1.
I mean it’s just too much energy on that.
But what I would say to you having said that is our intensity focus on expenses will remain to the extent that revenues grow more rapidly and that will put downward pressure on the efficiency ratio to the extent that it doesn’t put upward pressure on it.
What we are going to be focused on is absolute level of expenses.
So we think expenses this quarter can be roughly flat.
We've got a little challenge covering that $72 million all of them in pension expense but we’re going to target to try to cover that and so that would argue that we would have a relatively attractive efficiency ratio.
Long-term we still have a target.
I will say that in the 55 range I don’t think at this year it could be at that level.
But certainly better than the 59 60 kind of level but probably in the middle area but I'm not going to give a particular number.
Okay.
And just a quick follow-up to that I guess the other side of relationship.
Just in terms of -- on the revenue side what are your expectations for the ability to grow net interest income this year? And Daryl are those helpful on the first quarter outlook for the margin? How do you think about margin for the full year? So John if you look at net interest income rates have fallen in the last three to four weeks.
I would tell you that net interest income we’re planning for it to be up slightly on a year-over-year basis a lot of it is really determined by what happens by the Fed.
The Fed impact will impact us more than what we are seeing on the long end of the curve.
As Kelly said we are still expecting the Fed to increase middle of the year.
And if Fed with their announcement in March takes the word patience out you’re going to see LIBOR rates start to increase in the second quarter which you’re going to see that starting to flow through into the net interest income in the second quarter just by LIBOR rates increasing.
As far as margin for next quarter we expect it be down about three to five basis points couple of basis points on purchase accounting maybe one or two basis points on core but thereafter what we think a relatively stable margin maybe margin actually going up a little bit for quarters two three and four.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
And we will take our next question from Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
Hi Betsy.
Clarification question just all the guidance is based on BB&amp;T today not including any acquisitions? Correct.
Okay can we talk a little bit about how you are thinking about how the acquisitions will impact? Big picture we can -- if you don’t want to get too much more detailed on that and how you are expecting it’s likely to drive the overall company as they get integrated? Yeah.
So the first acquisition will be Citi and hopefully that will close at the end of this quarter.
That acquisition will basically increase our core deposits.
We really won't have any impact on the size of the company.
We’re just going to pay off national market purchases from that perspective but we will add to run rate because their cost of funds is actually lower than our cost of funds.
So that should start to help.
The Bank of Kentucky we plan for that to close in the second quarter.
That will be a good transaction.
On a size basis it’s a couple of billion dollars.
But you will start to see a little bit impact positive there just because our earnings assets balance sheet growth is a couple of billion dollars.
And they have a lot of good momentum going on there good market in Greater Cincinnati so that should actually be a really strong transaction over time.
And then Susquehanna we are expecting that to close some time in the third quarter and as that closes in the third quarter you’re going to see a nice lift in net interest income fee income from that acquisition.
And then expenses will start to fade away over the next year or so.
So I don’t want to get any more definitive than that.
But that’s kind of the timing that we are looking at.
And so then the improved funding mix Daryl that you talked about in the prepared remarks is that in part a function of the Citi closing or what else is there that you are thinking about? If you just look at what's happened what Kelly talked about early in our remarks we are really growing our core deposits from DDA and our non-maturity deposits and it’s just outpacing all of our rather funding.
And what Kelly said was exactly right.
We've doubled our percentage of DDA in the last five years funding our company and we still expect to have strong momentum there.
I mean all the investments that we've made in wealth and corporate banking is really paying dividends and our company is really becoming advantaged from a funding perspective.
And Betsy I would add that depending on how it goes my personal prediction is that as I said earlier I think rates will start rising as I said in June and as Daryl alluded to LIBOR going up in advance of that.
And then I think you’re going to see institutions lagging in terms of deposit cost increase going up just because of the narrow spreads we’re already operating under.
And so if all that happens then that will bode well for net interest margins as we get through the year.
Sure.
Got it.
Okay thank you.
You bet.
Our next question comes from Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
Good morning Kelly and good morning Daryl.
Good morning.
Hey Gerard.
Kelly when we look at your ROE this quarter it came in strong a 130 basis points.
And when you go back to the pre-recession periods you guys regularly reported 140 150 I think one year even 170 plus basis points return on assets.
Now I recognize the efficiency ratios are higher today than where you were back then.
But when you look out over the next couple of years what do you think BB&amp;T could get to on an ROA basis? What's something that you think comfortably you guys can report in terms of profitability in an normal interest rate environment? Yeah.
We spend a lot of time thinking about that Gerard.
And obviously you well know the ROA depends a lot on what's our level of equity is.
But we cannot think given the projected levels of equity we've talked about that ROAs will be in the range of 130 to 150 and that will probably kick out ROEs of 13 to 15.
I think that’s kind of the way it would go.
It depends a little bit how the mix works out in terms of equity levels in any given short term period of time.
But -- so I think you get back to kind of where we were on ROAs but that’s because the relatively stronger equity.
This could be a little challenging to back to the kind of ROEs we had because we just got a lot more equity.
Now that argues well for multiples in my view with regard to the stock because you've got a less risky and more conservative and more resilient type of forward looking earnings theme.
And so -- but I think for us and for the industry you think about good ROAs more like the old days that we remember so fondly and ROE being somewhat less but still 13 to 15 with a low risk kind of company.
Relative to the other alternative investments I think it’s pretty attractive.
Great.
Thank you.
And Daryl you mentioned your LCR ratio was about 130% in the quarter obviously well above where it needs to be.
Will you guys think you will manage to on that ratio? How much lower will it go if it will go lower? And when do you think you will get there? So we are still learning about the LCR ratio.
Our daily reporting starts to go live later this quarter and we are just going to see try and see how -- what it is.
Our best guess is right now that we want to manage about 20 points over what our threshold is.
So we have to be at 90 by the end of -- next year and then 100 following year after that.
So I think long-term we should be in the 120 range give or take.
We actually are continuing to buy Tier 2 securities.
It’s just our funding mix continues to improve which is helping from a liquidity perspective that’s offsetting that.
So we've shifted away from our Tier 1 securities and are buying more your Fannie and Freddie now.
But it’s just that our funding mix is also moving to positive direction for us.
So that’s why you didn’t see it really move a whole lot this quarter.
Thank you.
Okay.
And we will take our next question from Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Hi good morning guys.
Just one follow-up on the expense cycle your general context of trying to keep expenses flattish this year.
Can you just clarify you are talking about trying to manage that on an operating basis on the way you would ex those couple of big items you had mid-year.
And does it also contemplate the pension up increase and also the run off of the FDIC add back? Yeah all of Kelly comments really incorporated all the pension impact.
We are talking about a flattish non-interest expense number on a GAAP basis.
If you back out some of the two large items that we had in 2014 specifically the FHA charge and the Federal Home Loan Bank unwind we’re probably up maybe 2% at most on a year-over-year basis.
Still able to be little bit under the revenue growth that we are forecasting.
Understood.
But that doesn’t take away that we are still talking about flattish this year Daryl just making there clarifying point that if you adjust to more normalized level 13 we would have there.
What I'm trying to focus Ken is flattish kind of expenses for this year.
Because -- in terms of the expense management all you can really do is focus on what's happening in terms of absolute level of expenses.
And so if we can do that even though it’s on adjusted 2% kind of increase over the no adjusted lower level of 13 I feel really really good about that for 14.
Understood.
And my follow-up is just -- can you just talk about a couple of a bigger fee categories and what you are outlook is? Notably insurance and investment banking? Let me let Chris give some color on that because it’s very positive story.
Yeah I think insurance we finished this year -- year-over-year about 8% or so.
And I think we do have the end of the year pricing is beginning to -- it really flattened out than the last quarter.
So you will see pricing down a little bit.
You should see as economy continues to improve a bounce in exposure and just new business.
And so we would expect to probably be up in the six or so range I would say for next year.
And in terms of investment banking I would say in the 5% to 6% kind of range is well.
We had really good equity activity at the end and we see M&amp;A pretty active right now.
So I think we have good continued opportunities as we look forward.
Okay got it.
Thanks guys.
And we will take our next question from Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Some of the investors with whom I've spoken recently have a less optimistic view on the trajectory of rates than you all do and I do quite frankly.
So I guess the question is that given how stable the core margin has been and is predicted to be can you grow core NII in 2015 even if the Fed doesn’t move this year? So when you look at interest rates Erika we’re -- about half of our assets are floating rate and the other half is fixed rate.
The fixed rate portion of our assets for the most part reprice for the yield curve five years and end.
So I know lot of people focus on a 10-year but the 10-year really just impacts more the mortgage market little bit in prepayments from that perspective.
When we ran our models we basically used current rates and what was in the forward curve and all that and I will say that net interest income will be challenging to grow.
But I still think depending how we grow our loans and our funding mix continues to improve.
I think we still have a good chance of actually growing NII little bit.
Got it.
And just -- the second follow-up question is -- thank you for the comments on charge-offs for next quarter.
I was just wondering as you think about an improving U.S.
economy is 40 to 45 basis points a good bogey for the rest of the year for BB&amp;T? Erika this is Clarke I think it is.
Keep in mind Daryl’s comments.
We do have a large -- relatively large contribution losses from our non-prime auto business which is really well run.
But it -- is producing a core level losses.
So we’re not going to go dramatically lower.
So I think in that 40 45 basis points range is probably a good number as we look forward for the year.
Got it.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Mike Mayo of CLSA Investment Bank.
Hi.
Hello.
My question relates to efficiency and Kelly I guess if I could get you to commit a little bit your efficiency ratio in 2011-2012 was around 55% and for the last years 2013 and 2014 it was around 59% including a 59% in 2014.
So could you guys at least the efficiency ratio below that 59% given that the ratio was 57% or even 56.7% in the fourth quarter.
So doesn’t seem to be a too big of a bar.
And related to that when is -- you moved to SAP you started to move little bit ago and what is your schedule for the conversion of the general ledger.
I thought that was going to be some time in the first half of this year and could that help control your expenses? So Mike I think your -- see your logical deduction around the math is reasonable.
All I'm trying to do math -- and Mike you know you've been around business long time and I just don’t like to have so much attention focused to one number because obviously there are times when your efficiency ratio going up is improving EPS and return to your shareholders.
So you don’t want to get the market too polarized and focus on that.
But that having been said I think your logical deduction between we were 55 we got it to 59 somewhere in the middle is probably reasonable phase to be.
So I think in terms -- and Daryl can comment.
But I think with regard to project one we feel really good about where we are on that.
We are in parallel.
Everything is balanced to penny of a day.
So it’s working really well.
We are working on fine-tuning the processing times to get the efficiencies and so we’re trying to decide right now to be honest how we go live in mid-February or maybe mid-April.
But that’s not about the quality of system it’s just we want to get the efficiencies of the system running.
So that to your second point when this system gets running and just to be efficient then we will ratcheting down the expenses that are running to parallel all the system and then over the next 12 to 18 months we will get efficiencies that this system is really designed for which is to be able to go out and extract information from cost system on a much more efficient basis.
Now it’s lot of work to make that happen but we know that there are lot of system improvements and design of how we extract information of those is going to make a system much more efficient as we go forward.
Okay.
And I guess having asked a question about the core efficiency ratio I guess in the end we on the outside won't really know because can we unscramble the egg you have an acquisition.
Seems like you have Citi in the first quarter and Bank of Kentucky in the second and Susquehanna in the third so at the end of the year we won't really be able to unscramble that egg I guess.
So how can we monitor your progress on a core basis this year? Well we will unscramble it for you as we go along Mike as best as we can.
As you know it is a scrambled egg.
But as -- you know the Citi and the Bank of Kentucky won't have material impacts the big change will be Susquehanna which will be in the third quarter.
And so we will build it pretty clearly identify for you then what the run rate for BB&amp;T will be for the rest of the year and we will be able to be pretty clear about what the Susquehanna numbers will be.
So I don't think it will be as confusing as it may appear at this point.
All right.
Thank you.
You bet.
And we'll take our next question from Geoffrey Elliott of Autonomous Research.
Thanks.
I've a question on the LCR.
What would that 130% look like once you cross the $250 billion asset threshold from being A modified LCR back to a full strength LCR back? So we're running actually both numbers right now Geoffrey and for us right now it's about 40 points.
So 130% LCR for us under $250 billion.
Once we cross over $250 billion would be 90 from that perspective.
So we're managing we're monitoring that in case we ever did get over $250 billion in the next couple of years.
So we won't be surprised or caught off guard.
It's -- we're actually doing the calculations and monitoring it today.
And what calculations you have done on the impact of crossing the $250 billion the LCR dipping down to 90%.
You want to run with 120.
So 30 percentage point of LCR build what would that do to your profitability? It really depends on how you get over the $250 million Geoffrey and where you are in the environment.
The acquisitions that we have this year both Citi the Bank of Kentucky and Susquehanna all should improve our LCR because of the core finding that these institutions bring to our company and how we plan to basically put the balance sheets together.
So it's hard to say today what the financial impact is.
Obviously it won't be a positive impact but how negative it will be it really depends on how you get there.
And as we continue to grow and our core funding continues to strengthen and get stronger we may not have much of an impact at all.
It really depends right now.
Great.
Thanks very much.
And our next question comes from John Pancari of Evercore ISI.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I want to give a little bit more color on your loan growth expectation for the full year of 2015.
I know you give us the link quarter expectation and it does imply a good amount of acceleration.
And I want to get your thoughts on what that could mean for the full year growth on an organic basis excluding the impact of Susquehanna.
Yeah John this is Clarke.
We think roughly total 4.5% to 6% in that range that's including mortgage.
So ex-mortgage maybe more than 6% to 7% range.
Okay.
And then just the drivers of that.
What would you say are going to be the strongest contributors? Should it remains C&amp;I and large corporate like we've seen or do expect steady pick-up in some of the other areas including commercial real estate? As we talked a little bit about earlier it will be pretty broad-based which is why I feel very confident about over the course of the year and our large corporate is growing at 23% growth rate.
That will continue at a very nice double-digit type of growth rate I think certainly for this year.
Our retail is coming on really strong at 8.7%.
That momentum will continue and maybe even build as we go through the year.
Small business has been the challenge but to be honest I think that's the bright spot for BB&amp;T as we go forward because the guest effect across Main Street America is likely to be very positive and that will cause more economic activity in the smaller credit area which will really work to our advantage because we have a huge market share out in that space.
And so when you look at overall loan growth it's pretty diversified especially lending businesses all of that will be very very positive.
So we feel very confident.
Okay.
And then on new production loan yields just want to give some color and where you're bringing on new money at this point.
Either overall book or if you have the detail by C&amp;I versus anything real estate oriented? Yeah.
John this is Clarke again.
As far as our C&amp;I spreads a little pressure this quarter but relatively flat about 178 basis points on new production on C&amp;I on the spread basis.
Our CRE income property 258 and then our construction development about 340.
So a little bit of pressure but I think given where we're holding on our risk tolerances they held up relatively well for the quarter.
Okay.
And my last thing is just around energy.
Did you allocate any additional reserves over to energy? And do you have what the reserve is for the energy book as of the end of the year? Thanks.
We don't disclose that level of segmentation.
But I can tell you we have a robust overall methodology for our allowance and certainly the energy segments included in that analysis and we do believe that at this point in time for what we know we've allocated appropriate reserves for that book.
I will tell you just to explain what Kelly said we've done very thorough sensitivity analysis on our book down as low as $40 looking at coverage on proven producing reserves-only realize that we have other collateral and liquidity sources other than that and we're going on a name-by-name basis.
So I feel good about where we are.
We don't anticipate even as we look forward to next quarter.
So any material increases in our reserved related to the energy book beyond what we've already done.
Okay.
Thank you.
Sure.
(Operator Instructions) And we'll take our next question from Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning folks.
Just -- Daryl I wanted to ask you about the loss share amounts that are included in fee income with the exit of the commercial loss share agreement.
Should we expect that number to move lower over the course of 2015? Is that potentially they help to your total non-interest income? Yes Matt.
I think that's accurate.
This past quarter we had a negative $84 million in our loss share account and fee income line item.
I would expect that to trend down probably in the $10 million to $15 million range every quarter over 2015 probably ending around $40 million to $50 million negative.
So that should be lift.
And if you couple that with the change in the tax credit accounting you're really going to see really strong fee income numbers for us next quarter.
Okay.
And then just on the loan sales you've done a couple of those.
I'm presuming that the environment for those sales is a little bit better than you saw maybe earlier in 2014.
Are you planning at this point further mortgage sales? And Daryl your comment about the servicing efficiency that might occur from the loan sales is that something might actually be visible in the operating expenses next year? Or is it at this point too relatively small to matter? Yeah Matt on the first point the market is still very liquid and the pricing is very attractive.
And so we were opportunistic and felt like it was a great risk trade-off given the pricing.
And Daryl's point about the efficiency just to give you some context I think between the two sales there were over 2 000 loans or so.
So those would be TDRs and non-performer so those are very servicing-intent.
I do think over time you will see that bleed out into some improvement in the cost structure down in our service and operation and that's really why we're doing it.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Sure.
And we'll take our next question from Eric Wasserstrom of Guggenheim Securities.
Thank very much.
Thank.
I'm sorry.
Can you hear me okay? Yeah.
All right.
Thanks.
Sorry about that.
I just wanted to follow-up without asking any specific point about your CCAR submission.
Can you kind of help us kind of think through your stance on capital return over this CCAR cycle given obviously what's going on with your acquisition activity? Yes.
Eric we've said pretty consistently that when we think in terms of capital deployment we're always focused on organic growth first because that's the most efficient utilization of capital.
Dividends are a clear number two for us and strategic opportunities are number three and buybacks our number four.
And so I think as we think about 2015 we clearly are going to be asking for an increased total payout.
We expect to ask for a modest increase in our dividend.
And so you would expect to see a request in the neighborhood of 6% kind of range.
We'd still be low compared to a lot of folks but we're still very conservative and we just don't want to -- we just don't want to get ourselves strained at all on capital because you never know when opportunities are going to come along.
So we'll be relatively conservative but still that will be a nice increase relative to 2014.
Yeah.
The only thing I would add to that Eric is that we also incorporate the acquisition into the [inaudible] and the acquisitions to use up capital.
So it's really the acquisitions plus the 60% total range that Kelly talked about.
Great.
Thanks.
And just to follow-up on a comment from earlier Kelly when you referred to the benefits of some of the technology implementation that you've done in terms of extracting information more efficiently and that kind of thing where do we see that evidenced in the income statement? Is it in lower technology headcount or where do we actually see the benefits of that? So where you will see it it will be hard for you to see to be honest Eric because it's enterprise-wide.
So think about it this way.
Our current systems have to go out and extract information from like 83 different places to pull together information on a monthly and quarterly basis and doing our CCAR preparations.
And today frankly an awful lot of that is very manually extracted.
And so this system eliminates a lot of the manual extraction.
It's automatic computer-to-computer extraction of information.
And so in every line of business you will see less staffing requirements because all of these data have to come out on these various lines of business so loans and deposits and other areas across the bank.
So it will be very widespread very hard for you to see but it would be very easy for us to see in terms of the aggregate processing cost and as sort of will be as I said a downward indicator with regard to overall efficiency ratio.
Good.
Thanks very much.
And we'll take our next question from Kevin Barker of Compass Point Trading and Research.
Good morning.
Could you talk about the adjustment you made on the MSR given most of your peers have been marking down their MSR significantly this quarter? And you already have a relatively low discount rate and low CPR rate compared to most and thinking about your MSR valuation.
Kevin this is Daryl.
Every quarter we go through and we look at our MSR valuations.
We compare it against a couple of other services and peer information.
And our MSR valuation has been trending lower than the others for the last several quarters.
It's at a point now where it's so far under that we had to rebalance it up and when we did that we adjusted our prepayment models and the prepayment model changes basically was a positive to the valuation.
We are still well under our survey peers.
We use a PWC survey we use FDIC survey and Mountain View are the services we use.
And we're still significantly under those from an MSR servicing perspective.
So are you assuming prepay speeds below 9% at this point? Well I mean the adjustment we made to get the $11 million increase was really in the prepayment models.
But there's a lot of assumptions that go in to how you come up with the total valuation.
It's hard to say exactly which assumptions make us lower than all these other surveys because they are an average of a lot of other services combined together.
But I think we feel very comfortable that our valuations are adequate and on the conservative side.
Okay.
And then overall mortgage banking are you saying this is one of your bigger opportunities in 2015? If you look at mortgage volume since rates have come down our application volume is up.
It's hard to know how far this is going to play out but it's definitely a positive bent for income.
I mean you're seeing refis now approaching two-thirds of our business right now which is positive spreads widening out.
So that could continue into the year really depends on what happens with the longer end of the curve.
But it's definitely a positive event from the mortgage perspective.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we have time for one final question which we'll take from Paul Miller of FBR.
Thank you very much.
On the origination side I think you made a comment in your commentary about you're seeing good loan growth out of HELOC portfolios.
We -- just from a couple of other banks that they're getting some decent growth out of HELOC portfolios especially in some of the hardest hit states like Florida and Georgia.
Are you saying the same thing? Is that were most of the HELOC growth is coming from? This is Ricky Brown Paul.
We're seeing HELOC growth kind of broadly applied across our footprint.
We've done some programs and it's enabled us to not only get notional increases but we're actually getting some nice fundings in those lines as well.
And we feel really good about where we're getting the growth.
As I said it's broadly across all of our markets.
In addition Kelly mentioned earlier we have developed a good auto program at our branches.
We're going to introduce a very good unsecured program that allows us to get some good yields.
We're working on a boat program.
We've got our QM [ph] lending in the branches redefined and we think that a nice uptick for 2015.
And then of course our partnership with wealth continues to be outstanding.
Last year we made 25 000 referrals are one of our community bank into the wealth area which is very significant both from a deposit fee income and loan perspective.
So we see it pretty broad-based right now which is good.
And can you talk about a little bit what's your average balances? Are they mostly line of credits or are they somebody adding additional bedroom to the house? What we're seeing is the HELOC is obviously lines of credit but people are using that money they're using it for a variety of reasons from building onto their homes to paying educational expenses to refinancing credit card debt whatever it might be.
So it's a wide variety.
But these aren't huge lines.
They are -- I don't know the exact average line size.
But it would be probably less than $50 000.
Okay.
Guys thank you very much.
You bet.
Thanks Paul.
And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Alan Greer for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you Kim.
And we appreciate everyone joining us today.
If you have any other questions please don't hesitate to call Investor Relations.
Thank you and have a good day.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for joining us.
Greetings ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the BB&amp;T Corporation First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference.
Currently all participates in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
As a reminder this event is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Alan Greer of Investor Relations for BB&amp;T Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Amber and good morning everyone.
Thanks to all of our listeners for joining us today.
We have with us today Kelly King our Chairman &amp; CEO and Daryl Bible our Chief Financial Officer who will review the results for the first quarter of 2015 and give you some thoughts about the second quarter.
We also have other members of our executive management team who are with us to participate in the Q&amp;A session Chris Henson our Chief Operating Officer; Ricky Brown the President of Community Banking; and Clarke Starnes our Chief Risk Officer.
We will be referencing a slide presentation during our comments today.
A copy of the presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental financial information are available on the BB&amp;T Web site.
Before we begin let me remind you that BB&amp;T does not provide public earnings predictions or forecasts however there may be statements made during the course of this call that express Management's intentions beliefs or expectations.
BB&amp;T's actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by those forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the forward-looking statement warnings in our presentation and our SEC filings.
In addition please note that our presentation includes certain non-GAAP disclosures.
Please refer to page two in the appendix of our presentation for the appropriate reconciliations to GAAP.
With that I will turn it over to Kelly.
Thank you Alan good morning everybody and thanks for joining us on our call.
I hope you are enjoying a nice spring day.
While this first quarter is seasonally a challenge for us as most of you know I believe it is a very clean and solid quarter.
And while the environment is challenging we are really well-positioned for the rest of the year and for the long-term.
The reason I say that is because we are building a business which has a very strong diversified and resilient balance sheet.
It produces steady revenue less volatile earnings and we believe long term less volatile steady growth in shell [ph] as well.
Relative to the world we are really excited about the future and will explain to you why as the course of the conversation.
If you're following along on deck 3 our net income totaled $488 million in the first quarter.
Diluted EPS was 67.
We did have a penny in MRC charges so we would say core at 68.
Revenues totaled 2.3 billion which was up 1.5% compared to the first quarter of 14.
Had a strong performance in fee businesses and particularly in insurance where we had a record quarter.
Our fee income ratio is up to a very strong 45.8% versus 43.6% in the first quarter of 14.
ROA was 1.18% ROE was 9.05% and important our return on tangible common was 14%.
With regard to loans which I'll give you a little bit more detail on in just a moment excluding residential mortgage they did grow 5.4% which is pretty good in this environment.
It was led by C&amp;I direct retail and sales finance.
If you look at slide four we'll give you – in just a moment I'll come to slide 4.
Let me stay with slide three for just a moment.
On some strategic points we did announce an agreement to significantly increase our partnership interest in AmRisc which is MGU underwriting risk not taking risk and to sell American Coastal to the AmRisc management team.
This is a de-risking transaction no material impact on results and it does eliminate some exposure we had to hurricane exposure there so we feel really good about that.
Successful completion of the Texas branch acquisition just to remind you we did an earlier tranche of about 21 branches a few months ago.
We just a few weeks ago closed 41 branches.
Our combination of that is over $3 billion in deposits.
It's a really good way for us to expand our franchise on a cost effective basis in Texas and when we started in 2009 we were 53rd in market share and this moves us up to 12 in market share.
So we still have a long way to get to number five – or top five but we have come along way.
So we feel really good about that.
I mentioned I was in Dallas twice in the last few weeks in a meeting with our people and some community leaders and I will just tell you the positive momentum of our people in that market and in Houston and the other parts of Texas is really fantastic.
We are being very well received the Texas and we are very thankful for that.
We did have a successful conversion of our general ledger system which was a big deal.
And now we're looking forward to benefits of the efficiency and flexibility of that new system.
We continue to move down the path that would evolve to the mergers for Bank of Kentucky and Susquehanna moving through the approval process moving as expected.
We expect Bank of Kentucky to close in the second quarter and Susquehanna in the last half likely in the third quarter.
Both are going very very well.
We have huge opportunities there.
Ricky and I spent a lot of time at both of them and we can give you more color in Q&amp;A if you would like.
But I will just say that both opportunity are fantastic and at it this point we feel more excited about them than we did the day we announced it.
With regard to expenses it was a good quarter for us non-interest expense was $1.4 billion.
We did say in our guidance that we would have seasonally higher expenses which we always do.
The first quarter includes $18 million increase in pension a $22 million increase for payroll taxes.
And so our efficiency ratio was 58.5% but it's important if you x out these two items the pension and the payroll our GAAP expenses were lower this quarter.
That's the overall kind of summary Now I will take it to slide four with a little color with regard to the lending area.
In the C&amp;I area growth was strong.
Average C&amp;I was up $1 billion which was 10.7% annualized.
That was led by corporate mortgage warehouse and government finance.
C&amp;I I would tell you is mostly in large participations but that's what you would expect given that we are still fairly new in that whole space.
And so we are able to get good participations in old names that just have been out there for a long time and we just haven't been a part of the lending group.
So that is working very well for us.
I will that it is very competitive out there.
Spreads are tight.
We have done well in terms of its impact on our spreads because we are still pretty picky but it is tough out there.
We do expect C&amp;I to grow in the second quarter.
It would be modest – a little bit slower though because we will have less growth in mortgage warehouse but that depends on rates but that's right now what we'd do.
CRE in construction and development declined $38 million down 5.6% annualized.
That was due to several large payoffs primarily.
We are seeing growth in single-family construction and modest growth in office and retail.
Multifamily was down but here again we are being careful in multifamily.
We think it is kind of peaking and so we are being careful in underwriting and certainly in some markets we have really curtailed lending because we think it is overheated.
We do expect CMD to be seasonally stronger in the second quarter.
CRE income producing was flat.
We have some production in multifamily hospitality and industrial but again offset by a lot of large payoffs.
I think everybody knows with these extremely low protected interest rates there are a lot of actors out there looking for assets with any kind of yield and so we and I think for everybody in the industry are seeing abnormally high runoffs which will of course separate when rates adjust but for right now we are seeing that happening.
The market we think in multifamily is improving but again we think it's kind of at the top.
So it's not a problem today but we just think we need to be careful where we're going.
We expect income producing to be seasonally stronger in the second which will be good.
Average direct retail was a strong quarter increased $106 million or 5% annualized.
It continues to perform really well.
I've got good volume in HELOCs direct auto made out of the branches.
Our wealth production is still very strong record production every month.
It just keeps building and we do expect the direct retail to grow at a faster pace in the second maybe in the double-digit period.
Average sales finance which is again as a reminder largely prime auto order for us grew $251 million almost 10%.
That was our normal production and some acquired portfolios.
We expect it to be a little slow in the second as we're being careful about tight underwriting.
We mentioned last time that this is an area also in prime auto where there's a lot of money chasing these assets and spreads are getting to be really really tight so we are just not willing to take growth at unacceptable spreads.
And so we can expect that to be a little slower in the second.
Average residential mortgage was down $619 million or 8% annualized.
This is consistent with our strategy of selling off essentially all of our conforming mortgages and the impact of last year's quarters sale of $142 million of mostly non-performing mortgage loans.
That whole portfolio is performing exactly the way we want it to.
In terms of production we had $4 billion versus $3.9 billion in the fourth.
I will tell you the applications were up substantially in the last quarter and that should flow through as we head through and into the last year and the application flow was stronger than any quarter last year.
Of course rates were way down but we will see what happens with rates as we go forward.
I am pleased that the gain on sale margins were up at 1.54% versus 1.18% for the last quarter so we are improving our margins and still getting pretty good applications so that is pretty good.
We do expect to some decline of residential mortgage based on the strategy though even though applications and productions are good.
Other lending subs were down $33 million or 1.2% annualized.
This is as you know a seasonally slower quarter but we did have strong performance in equipment finance Regional Acceptance and Grandbridge.
The second quarter will be seasonally stronger for Sheffield and afrokeso [ph] so we can expect probably double-digit growth in this category in the second quarter.
So overall ex mortgage as I said grew 5.4%.
We think that is very good.
With regard to the second quarter we'd expect loans to grow 3% to 5% but if you ex mortgage we would expect a pretty strong 7% to 9% which is a little increase in our guidance with regard to loan activities so our strategies of very very diversified are working very very well.
If you look at slide five with regard to deposits there is another very good quarter in deposit performance.
Our non-interest bearing deposits grew $571 million or 5.9% annualized.
Interest checking was very strong $1.3 billion up 27% annualized.
The accounts we really wanted to grown were up 8.7% which we feel really good about.
So total deposits were down 2.4% but again that's because we are managing our mix and our costs and we will continue to do that.
I really am very pleased to say that our non-interest bearing deposit mix was 30.6% the first quarter of 2015 up 200 basis points from 28.2% in the first quarter of 2014.
So making a lot of progress in that area in terms of mix and our costs continues to come down 0.25% in the first quarter versus 0.27% in the first quarter of 2014.
So it was a solid quarter and positions us very well in terms of this protracted low interest-rate environment.
And again we think we look good going forward even though this is a tough environment because our non-bank businesses generally aren't feeling the same kind of spread pressure the community bank is and our mergers provide excellent opportunities for efficiency improvement as we go forward.
While the market is challenging we feel relatively bullish.
Let me turn it to Daryl now for some color in some additional areas.
Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
This morning I'm going to talk to you about credit quality net interest margin fee income non-interest expense capital and our segment results.
Continuing on slide six.
As Kelly stated a few moments ago we are pleased to report a solid first quarter.
Our performance includes outstanding results in credit quality.
Net charge-offs were better than expected coming in at 34 basis points down 13% and well below our long-term normalized range.
Excluding Regional Acceptance charge-offs were 18 basis points.
Loans past due decreased a combined 20% showing continued improvement in almost every lending category.
Going forward we expect net charge-offs to remain below 35 and 40 basis points in the second quarter assuming no material decline in the economy.
NPAs declined 2% compared with the fourth quarter.
NPLs declined 8%.
NPAs as a percentage of total assets remain at the lowest levels since 2007 at 40 basis points.
We expect NPAs to remain stable for the foreseeable future.
Turning to slide seven our allowance coverage continues to remain very strong to 3.6 times from 3.2 times net charge-offs last quarter grew quarter provision of $99 million for the quarter compared to net charge-offs of $101 million.
During the quarter we completed a full review of our energy-related credit portfolio.
The allowance includes an adjustment related to this review.
Even with this our criticized and classified ratios declined this quarter.
Going forward we continue to anticipate no reserve releases.
Continuing on slide eight.
Net interest margin was 3.33% this quarter down three basis points and well within our expectations.
Core margin was 3.18% down two basis points compared to the last quarter.
The small decline in GAAP margin resulted from lower yields on new loans runoff of acquired assets offset by improved funding mix.
Looking forward to the second quarter we expect GAAP margin to decline six to eight basis points driven by lower interest rates and runoff of acquired assets.
Core margin will likely be down a couple of basis points mainly due to lower yields on loans and increased competition.
We expect net interest income to be flat next quarter.
We became a bit more asset sensitive in the fourth quarter due to funding mix changes.
This positions us to benefit when interest rates begin to rise.
Turning to slide nine.
Effective January 1 we adopted new accounting guidance related to qualified affordable housing investments.
So you will see some reclassifications in 2014 related to this new guidance as well as a couple other immaterial reclassifications to conform more closely with industry practice.
We had a strong quarter from our fee income producing businesses.
Our fee income ratio came in at a very healthy 45.8% for the quarter.
Total fee income was $1 billion for the quarter down $25 million compared to the last quarter.
The change in fee income was driven primarily by a decrease in mortgage banking income mostly due to lower net MSR income a decrease in investment banking and brokerage fees driven by a decrease in capital markets activities and lower service charges on deposits due to fewer days and higher compensating deposit balances.
We did however experience seasonal growth and employee benefits commissions resulting in a record quarter for our insurance business.
For the second quarter we expect growth in all major fee categories.
Turning to slide 10.
As expected our non interest expenses were up due to seasonal factors.
Personnel expense increased $36 million.
This was mostly due to a $22 million increase in payroll taxes and an $18 million in pension expense offset by a slight decline in FTDs.
In non-interest expense loan related expense decreased mostly due to a $27 million charge in the fourth quarter.
Other expense increased $42 million due to prior period benefits for franchise taxes and insurance related expenses.
And professional expenses declined $14 million due to lower legal fees and costs associated with strategic projects.
Looking at taxes our effective tax rate was 30.6% for the fourth quarter and should remain at a very similar level in the second quarter.
Looking forward we expect second-quarter expenses to increase 2% to 4% driven by annual merit in increases production related incentives professional and IT services expenses and the impact of the Texas branches and the Bank of Kentucky.
We expect to achieve positive operating leverage in the second quarter.
Turning to slide 11.
Capital ratios remained very strong with common equity tier one capital at 10.5%.
Fully phased in common equity capital was 10.3%.
Looking at liquidity our LCR remains very strong at 130% and our liquid asset buffer at the end of the quarter was very healthy at 13.7%.
We were very pleased to receive a non-objection to our capital plan.
Later this month we plan to increase the quarterly dividend by $0.03 per share to $0.27 a 12.5% increase.
Additionally we are approved for share buybacks of up to $820 million beginning in the third quarter of this year.
Our capital plan also included the Texas branch acquisition the Bank of Kentucky Susquehanna and the AmRisc deal.
Looking briefly at our segments on slide 12 the Community Bank's net income was down $41 million compared with last quarter due to seasonally lower revenues.
The segment had very good loan production.
Compared with the same period last year commercial loan production was up 5% and direct retail lending was up 50% due to an increase in home equity lines of credit.
Additionally Bancorp production increased 9%.
Non-interest expense decreased 3.1% compared to like quarter.
The Community Bank successfully converted the branches in Texas.
Finally we are preparing for the upcoming acquisition of the Bank of Kentucky planned for the second quarter and Susquehanna for the second half of 2015.
Turning to slide 13.
Residential mortgage banking net income declined $18 million.
This was driven by the runoff of the mortgage loan balances and lower production volumes sold offset by higher gain on sales spreads.
On slide 14 dealer financial services had net income of $43 million an increase of $9 million compared to last quarter driven by lower provision expenses and continued strong loan growth.
Asset quality indicators for regional acceptance continued to perform very well within our risk appetite.
Turning to slide 15 our specialized lending net income declined $7 million to $57 million compared to last quarter due to seasonally lower loan production.
Like quarter loan growth was up 19% due to Grandbridge Sheffield and Commercial Finance.
On slide 16 insurance had a strong quarter with segment net income of $72 million up $7 million linked quarter.
Revenues were up 3% for retail 2% for wholesale and 3% in total.
Additionally insurance enjoyed strong like quarter new business growth of 32% for retail and 23% for wholesale.
Regarding the transaction with AmRisc and American Coastal we expect to have a $30 million $40 million merger-related charge next quarter.
Remember that this transaction eliminates our exposure to underwriting risk and enhances an investment in a high-growth business.
And lastly on slide 17 the financial services segment experienced excellent linked quarter loan and deposit growth driven by corporate banking.
Wealth also had record lending production an increase of 39% compared to the fourth quarter.
In summary we had a strong performance in a seasonally challenged quarter driven by excellent credit quality record insurance income and controlled expenses.
We have great momentum going into the second quarter with a stronger outlook for loan growth and fee income.
We are excited about our two upcoming bank acquisitions the Bank of Kentucky and Susquehanna.
Now let me turn it back over to Kelly for closing remarks and Q&amp;A.
Thank you Daryl.
So overall again I think it was a very solid quarter.
Relative to the market we had really good loan performance excellent deposit growth good fee income record quarter for insurance expenses were lower exile [ph] seasonal in pension expense.
Most importantly we are well-positioned for the rest of the year and going forward.
Our non-bank businesses have really given us diversified income which is less volatile.
Efficiencies in M&amp;A are really going to begin to pay off for us.
In this environment it's really about consistent strategies and excellent execution.
That is what BB&amp;T is good about.
Alan… Thank you Kelly.
Amber at this time if you would come back on the line explain how are participants can call in and ask a question.
Thank you.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We will go first to Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Morning.
Morning.
My first question Kelly is on your updated outlook on the rate environment.
I remember last earnings call you were optimistic about potential fed actions this year and I think investors in the market are a little less so if you could give us an update on how you think rates are going to trend for the rest of the year? and then Daryl maybe as a follow-up to that if rates don't go up in 2015 what the trajectory is for BB&amp;T's core name both on the stand alone BB&amp;T basis and then overlaying Susquehanna? Erika that is obviously the question of the day I think for every.
So I tell you what I personally think.
I think the Fed is going to raise short-term rates in the June to September time frame in spite of all their rhetoric about the recent changes and so forth.
The reason is because I think they believe they need to get started on moving off the zero-based level.
The economy is not great but it's not bad.
They really need to begin getting to psychology for a movement in rates because at some point you've got to get rates up so when you go down you have some cushion.
Now having said that I don't think you can expect a quarter every time they meet.
And so it is going to be a quarter that kind of signal's that its started and I think they're going to be very cautious about their wording and maybe even they'll say give you a quarter and kind of take it back you know? Don't spend thins come right back.
My point is they will start the process.
So I don't think over the next year and a half or so you should expect a material change in rates even though there will be a change in the direction.
That means the rate environment will still be challenging for us and everybody else.
And so you know our plans in general are we keep hoping and it would be nice if rates went up a lot.
We're not counting on that.
We're planning on running our business assuming that the environment about like it is and we think we've got strategies to enable us to do that.
Erika on your second part of your question the guidance that we gave for margin even though Kelly believes the rates are going up we always use the forward curve when we model our projections.
And we ran our models this month we basically had no rate increases for 2015.
It was really the month of December which basically had no impact for our company and margin.
So to answer your question you know I would expect our core margin to probably drop about three basis points in the second quarter.
From that standpoint you are assuming we are able to get our loan growth targets projecting for the next several quarters we expect core margin to be flat.
GAAP margin will probably be about 10 basis points higher than that for the next couple of quarters.
As Susquehanna comes online in the second half of the year that will improve our GAAP margin probably in the neighborhood of 10 to 15 basis points potentially and as that gets closer we will probably give a little bit more color by then.
Great.
Just my follow-up question you have been open in terms of potential consolidation activity going forward and we've seen in some of the small and midsize peers in your footprint we are starting to see credit trends create even outside of energy and I guess the question year is do you think the willingness to sell or least the willingness to negotiate a more reasonable price is sort of the issues in credit – is that going to change the tone of your conversations in 2015? I think Erika everybody is experiencing the same environment Eric the interest rate you just alluded to has challenges in terms of technological costs going up a lot.
Regulatory costs are going up and you can't beat that environment by making poor quality loans and low priced loans.
It is a very challenging environment.
In to be honest in this kind of environment it is a cost control game.
You can't do so much in – that looks like adding scale.
Do as much as you can organically but you can't push that because you might get scale and expenses but you lose it on net income as a provision.
Our answer is mergers make more sense for us.
I do believe to your point Erika others are beginning to see the same thing and I don't think that's a sign of witness for them.
I think it's just a sign of scale advantages in a tough environment that's going to persist for some time.
I expect the conversations to be more kind of practical and realistic about M&amp;A going forward because I think everybody is settling into the recognition that is going to be a protracted tough environment.
Thank you.
We will go next to Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Thank you good morning guys.
Kelly can you share with us you were talking about some of the lending areas where the competition is really intensified and more actors have come into play here.
Is a non-bank competitors you are seeing more of for more just traditional depositories? Could you compare to the last time you saw this type of competition? Was at 06 or 05 for that time period? Gerard you have been watching us a long time Mike I have.
This time it is tougher and the reason is because there are more actors out there.
What we've got going on globally is obviously an extended period of really low interest rates and what's that is doing is causing assets all around the world to be chased by a lot of money.
The U.S.
has relatively higher yields anywhere except in China.
Money from everywhere is – higher-yielding assets in the U.S.
ensure enough in private equity funds and hedge funds and business development corporations all kinds of factors out there competing with us – this environment is tougher than it was before.
Bank to bank competition first time versus last time it is probably a little tougher – this kind of long-term extended – I think everybody is reacting to a really tough environment.
I think some frankly of getting a little overzealous in terms of trying to chase – and taking a look bit more risk than they ought to.
Everybody says everybody else does it and we don't do it so I'm not trying to be critical.
I'm saying it is a tough environment and everybody is trying to do the best that they can do.
At least for us we have said consistently we are not going to chase loan volume and expense for quality.
'S loan volume as I tell our board is extraordinarily good relative to the environment we are experiencing.
Thank you.
Too follow-up you guys have obviously converted over to a single general ledger.
Maybe Daryl can you share with us how much further do you have to go for updating your systems and second how big of that acquisition could you do at the systems with the systems that you adjust implemented? What's the capacity of those systems? Gerard the system we went to is an SAT general ledger system.
It is a very proven ledger system and the industry.
Not as much in the U.S.
but around the world in Europe and other countries.
I think this is very scalable and easily double our size and maybe much more.
One of the large competitors in the U.S.
one of the top four banks also just converted to this general ledger system and they are a trillion plus company so I think it is very scalable.
Gerard to prove that point Chris and I about three weeks ago went to Australia in Sydney and Melbourne and visited three banks using SAP and we got extremely confirming feedback in terms of quality – we could certainly double easily our size with this foundation.
Kelly are you looking to expand your footprint into Australia? I really like Sydney Gerard but it might be a few years before we get there.
Okay thank you.
We will go next to Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
A couple of questions.
One was on the expenses you know you called out where we are expecting to see them go one of the reasons it was acquisitions.
I was wondering if you could give us some color as to which are thinking there especially with Susquehanna – and maybe if you could speak to acquisition impact on revenues in the various lineups you called out? So for the acquisitions and the second-quarter impact B etsy if you take the 2-4% increase I would attribute 1.5% of that to city and the bank of Kentucky.
It is real there and it is mainly in line items and personnel and occupancy are the main drivers for that category.
As you get into third quarter Susquehanna will have a much more significant impact.
If you look at their expense base today it is about $500 million on an annualized basis.
In the – days we have phased in going over 12 to 18 months so it's going to have an impact initial on our run rate.
I think it will update that a little bit better next quarter as we get closer to that acquisition closing but you can kind of look at Susquehanna's numbers they released yesterday and use that as a gauge and layer in expenses.
We say we get a 32% – we think that is definitely doable over a 12 to 18 month period peak.
On the revenue side – you didn't call out the acquisitions impacting revenue so just wondering if it just wasn't as big of a benefit that you see in Q2 and more of it Q3 event or two hard to parse it out? The city deal is one that is in for the second quarter for the whole amount and that is basically there is not a real difference between the revenue expense pretty much matching each other.
I think over time is where we get the accretion.
The loan growth and the headcount growth over time that is how we get that accretion and we have been very successful.
We expect this went to be on track so that is how that will be accretive.
For bank of Kentucky we do get a loan portfolio of about $1.3 billion that were going to get towards the second quarter and that will have an impact on the first quarter from a revenue perspective.
Betsy remember file there is a little bit of a lag time in all three of these cases we think the light will be shorter than typical.
The reason is because in all three cases we are entering very large markets with very very low market shares with more products more services our strategies are very effective in this kind of market.
Rick and his team think that and I totally agree that will would be able to ramp up the revenue side of all three of these acquisitions very quickly relative to other traditional mergers.
To get some positive operating leverage in the second quarter but it should accelerate from there as the revenues come through from these deals That's right.
I think you know these deals close Betsy and as we achieve cost saves you know positive operating leverage for the next six to eight quarters should be very achievable.
Okay thanks.
We will go next to Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning folks thanks for taking my call.
Daryl maybe just a question if you can sort of on a BB&amp;T standalone basis with the general ledger system now up and running is there much in the way of cost benefits that you're getting from that conversion or are you still running sort of dual systems at this point and you don't expect to see much in the way of savings in the next few quarters? We converted over Presidents' Day weekend in February.
We ever really decommissioned the old system that is going to take place later this quarter or into the third quarter.
I think that will phase in over time.
I would say the efficiency of the system plays out as we continue to automate and improve our manual processes to automated processes.
It's going to take time for that to happen.
The real benefit of these systems is there is any efficiency play for automation but it's really the more you can attach to the systems so now we have basically a work horse general ledger system.
The key now is to try to get all of our other systems onto this system to get more efficiency to scale rather than have lots of other ancillary of the systems that support and convert more to the SAP environment so we have better control and more efficiencies and more automation.
So that will play out over probably the next two to three years.
And maybe a question for Clarke in terms of the delinquencies those were down quite nicely both in an early-stage and 90 plus basis yet you were still suggesting no additional reserve releases going forward.
How are you thinking about the trend in delinquencies and criticized assets going forward? Great question Matt and I think our view is that we're operating more or less at or below normalized levels in a very benign current performance environment.
While we feel really good about that and that's an opportunity to outperform and hopefully have a lower provision if our losses are lower at the same time we are growing our loan book nicely particularly in large corporate and other areas and we want to make sure we are properly and adequately reserved so that is why we said we don't believe it's appropriate right now to be releasing but we still feel good about the opportunity to outperform on credit in the near-term here.
Thank you very much.
And we will go next to John Pancari with Evercore ISI.
Good morning.
Back to the margin Outlook on the core margin what gives you confidence that the core margin flattens out in the third quarter excluding rates and excluding deals following the compression you do expect in the second quarter and the compression we saw this quarter? John we have talked about this before over the last year or two.
For us too have our core margin flattens out we are really hoping and getting – loan categories.
We need to get to the loan growth in our specialized businesses and our CRE businesses and those businesses to actually outgrow.
But we are slowing their growth – lowest spread businesses.
We are slowing the growth in prime auto which is also a slower spread business.
As we slow that growth down and increase the growth in the others it is really the asset mix that is really what is driving the quarter stabilize.
On the liability side there really isn't a whole lot of room to come down.
That is really what we need to have happen for the core margin to stabilize.
And I can happen without commercial real estate really picking up all that much because buyer tone – We believe it is so with the forecast we have.
Okay.
Thanks for the color on the margin trajectory.
I am wondering what is your margin guidance particularly with the back half of 15? What does that imply in terms of your spreading – expectations? If you just look at the core bank we would expect – income to start to rise as our loan growth kicks in.
As bank of Kentucky basically comes in towards the end of the second quarter and have the full effect in the third quarter that would also be a benefit there.
As Susquehanna closes sometime hopefully in the third quarter that would also have a huge benefit.
But just all core basis by itself we believe and are I will start to grow from second to third to fourth.
Okay all right.
Lastly Daryl based upon your earlier answer around – mortgage abatement is it fair to assume the declines – portfolio should continue here? Yeah we have projections – it came down a lot this past quarter about 8% but that was driven partially by the loan sales as well as the refi and everything.
I think the pace of it coming down will be slower the next couple of quarters that it should also shrink.
So you will see a pretty good Delta between the core portfolio as well as the portfolio excluding mortgage.
So I would expect it to continue to shrink not as much.
Okay thank you.
We will go next to John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Hi good morning.
I just wanted to see if there's any more precise estimate of the timing of the Susquehanna close Daryl? In terms of our modeling should we think about that you're open to close right at the beginning of the third quarter or is it just still very uncertain? John this is Kelly.
You know this environment is a different environment than any other we have played in.
In the old days you could predict with a lot of positioned exactly when things could occur.
It's really not that predictable today.
As I said in the opening remarks we have a lot of confidence that will close in the second half.
In all honestly at think it will close in the third quarter but I can't be precise enough whether it is July or August I just can't be that precise.
Okay.
Maybe Daryl you could help us think a little bit now I know you said you would be more details later about the initial impacts in the first quarter when you do close that deal.
Is it dilutive upfront before you get these saves? Just any sense of the timing of these saves and also the merger charges how should we think about those as the first close the deal? Thanks.
The merger charges obviously will be pretty heavy in the first quarter two when we close it.
I would say from an earnings per share basis in the first quarter it's probably not that accretive Tom a maybe a penny or two.
Early on it is getting the cost saves and getting the businesses to perform and getting the growth engines and getting all of our products and the people in Susquehanna trained.
When Ricky does his magic with the community bank that really plays out but it doesn't happen in the first quarter.
It takes a year or two.
Okay but it could be accretive by a penny or two – even in the first quarter or two? It's possible yes.
Okay and then one follow-up question on deposit service charges.
What did you see this quarter in terms of seasonality pressure on that line and how much are you seeing in maybe behavioral changes with folks managing their balance is better and having less overdraft and fewer deposit service charges? This is Ricky I think you answer your question.
Obviously seasonality – but balances increasing or offsetting analysis service charges so they are using balances to pay for service challenges instead of hard fees.
Certainly overdraft behaviors are becoming more managed by our people.
I think a lot of that is the – benefit they are getting.
They are using this savings to not necessarily spend more but manage opportunities in their existing lives so that not over drafting as much.
Those impacts together had the decline you saw in service charges.
We are still seeing great deposit growth.
Balances are continuing to increase.
That momentum continues and that could continue to put some pressure on service charge income as those behaviors continue.
Certainly want to continue to try to grow accounts and with the increase in accounts you get the potential for more service charges based on volumes – as we go into the second third and fourth quarters of the year.
Okay thank you.
We will go next to Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Thank you very much.
On the mortgage banking side you talk about this segment the mortgage income was down to to lower servicing costs – I'm a little confused about why was down wax.
In the fourth quarter we had a reevaluation in our MSR assets see take that revaluation away I would say mortgage banking was essentially flat which is actually pretty good because usually the first is a weaker quarter.
It is really set up to have a pretty strong second quarter after good start so we have pretty good momentum in mortgage revenue right now.
And secondly a couple of your competitors are saying the purchase market especially in Florida is doing very very w ell probably better than most people but given the purchase world was a disappointment a couple of years ago I'm just wondering if you could – at any color to that? Paul this is Ricky again.
Paul – we spent a lot of time down there the early part of the year visiting our regions there and in every market we are seeing very strong active purchase activities spanning be price ranges from low to high.
Another thing we will see – would heard a lot about the weather in the Northeast causing people to say I'm coming to Florida and I'm going to be there.
That impact is probably anecdotal but I think it shows you that Florida is back and people are again moving to Florida.
They are buying homes – particularly in South Florida with – coming in buying condos.
We see Florida just as you describe it a much bigger more robust purchase market.
Thank you very much guys.
We will go next to Geoffrey Elliott with Autonomous Research.
The context of assets you're looking at essentially buying how do you think about the assets of the businesses the GE capital selling – BB&amp;T ? Jeff we think the asset sales – are frankly going content in your especially – optimize the use of capital.
We think that is a good thing for banks like us because as we talked about organic growth on a good quality basis is challenging so we're looking at everything that's available out there in the marketplace.
Obviously we would be interested in any huge megadeals like Wells Fargo as has been talked about but we look at deals that make sense for us.
We are fairly positive that some of those acquisition opportunities will come to fruition.
And then just shifting a little bit on expenses I'm kind of curious in the divergence between personal expense up 6% year on year and full-time employees down 20%.
I understand – with all of this if you could just explain why those trends are so different? Besides pension we had an increase on – quarter pension and seasonal factors but on a like quarter basis it is mainly the – is the main increase or decrease.
We also and strong insurance revenue which tends to payout higher incentives so it's probably Ward incented related and pension related.
We maybe had an uptick probably in health expenses and flex benefits from that perspective that would probably be the other driver.
Thank you.
We will go next to Nancy Bush with NAB research.
Good morning.
Two questions here.
Could you expand a little bigger discussion of the am risk transaction? I think you said you significantly – and significantly increased your partnership interest at the same time the got rid of a lot of risk so assorted missing a piece here.
Could you just explain that? And also if you could repeat the merger charges that will accompany that? Nancy this is Chris Henson.
We owned a portion of am risk.
Am risk is the underwriter that underwrites wind catastrophe coverage.
That gets place with many underwriters throughout the world one of which was our own America coastal which we owned 100% of.
What they did was underwrite condominiums in the state of Florida.
We took real underwriting risk in America coastal.
Both of these businesses were started up back in the 2006-2007 timeframe.
Am risk as a general underwriter – both have performed exceptionally well.
– has risen to the third largest in the U.S.
High margins and a very high growth business and we just thought prior to what I call sort sword of the New World being and underwriter might've been okay.
Sort of in the world operate today – being in the underwriting business is probably not a place for us to be long-term.
It might've been okay for our performance but probably not the best place for us.
More importantly and risk is really key to our franchise.
If you think about it we have the second largest wholesale – business in the country.
What they really focus on is placing hard to place coverages.
One Kigo to partner in this is am risk in this whole underwriting wind cap coverage.
What am risk really brings us is higher-margin high-growth no risk of loss and it behaves within the wholesale segment as an underwriter almost because it's really about large underwriters outsourcing – so it is a bit of a hedge in the wholesale business.
It is key to franchise long-term and we thought it made much more sense to increase our interest there.
It is the same management team run the – the one that has been running America coastal.
This is Kelly – as Chris said we did the American coastal thing about nine or so years a go.
We did it at a time if you recall that most of the underwriters had left Florida and we were doing Florida and we want to show market support so without there was an opportunity to provide a bit of capital in that market and we have these really good underwriters in am risk that new that market extremely well but we only put $50 million in it.
– we actually made a lot over the last seven or eight years and we frankly redeployed that into the – unit Chris described.
We made some good money and decided not to be grieving took it off the table and we put it into the core part of our business that does not take risks..
I would think other really as a trade.
– into more of a broker.
Okay so are you a minority partner in am risk if I could get you to discuss your partnership interest? Absolutely.
We are majority holder of am risk a clear majority.
I call it a significant partnership interest.
In terms that you ask about the balance sheets we really experienced again on the transaction.
It is just from a goodwill impairment perspective we have to look at it from the context of the entire wholesale segment.
When you take that into account we had a small impairment.
But I think Daryl had said something can you tell me what you said the charge was going to be in the second quarter? The goodwill impairment is probably going to be between – call it $35 million give or take.
And it's all good well.
It's a non-cash charge.
No we had a positive economic gain because the overall proportion of that business in the overall insurance business.
We have 90% ownership in am risk and that is a really good position for us because it is a very good business.
Okay.
My follow-up question I think you cited a 1.5 per% gain on sale and the mortgage business is quarter.
That's a bit behind some of your competitors which I think are reporting in excess of 2% gain on sales.
Is a mixed issue for you guys? What do you expect that 1.5% to go in the second quarter? It is really a mixed issue.
If you look at the pieces retail spread was 3.62 and correspondence spreads were 36.
Correspondence was about two thirds of the business which is really why it was down lower.
We expect going in this next quarter to have stronger purchase activity and stronger retail so it should move into the other direction this next quarter.
Thank you.
We will go next to Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Good morning guys.
You alluded a little bit to the Ricky Brown magic in retail but I'm – on the Susquehanna side.
You mentioned 10 to 15 basis points a potential increased to the – post- close.
They had a – when I look at the numbers.
I know you're going to give us more detail later on but can you help us understand what you were saying that would be incrementally beneficial because that implies maybe a four-port 5% – is it residual lease accounting or just where rates are relative to announcement? Any color there would be helpful.
Thanks.
Typically what we do an acquisition – what we always do is we basically taken all the client activity so we taken the client owns inclined deposits.
We were very hard to X out any non- claim borrowings – and other opportunities there.
And in the investment portfolio decision is really a decision on whether we need they liquidity or not.
If you don't need securities or liquidity and also helps razor margin.
There are a lot of things you were to optimize the overall piece so it fits into your total organization but we will give you more color next quarter on that.
I guess if that math is right the type of earnings accretion you could get relative to that 3% indicated could be decently larger? It's going to be off a smaller base because you have smaller earning assets… That's a fair point.
Okay.
Secondly on the insurance business.
You guys have been talking about 6% – organic growth and you had some – I was wondering if you could just elaborate there were some changes in the seasonality.
Could you talk about this organic opportunity and if we should see a better year over year trajectory from your? It's Chris again.
If you look on a same-store sales basis it would be about 3% quarter over quarter kind of common view.
What we expect is a better second quarter than we had first.
Generally this is busy the second quarter is going to be the strongest followed by the first followed by the fourth and the third.
What you are referring to is most of the EB business as Daryl alluded to earlier hits in the first quarter.
We still believe to the balance of the year we're going to have enough strength out of the business to – five to 6% core growth year over year.
So we feel very good about that.
What you're seeing right now because we haven't had large loss periods the retail businesses are sore – we are seeing very strong strength in the retail business.
As Kelly alluded to retails new retailers new business growth was 32% wholesale was 23.
The new business growth was about 26%.
Okay thanks guys.
We will go next to Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim securities.
Thanks very much.
Just a couple of questions.
Versus the foreclosure inventory on the legacy portfolio excluding the FDIC sales it's the members but it's ticked up pretty consistently over the past few quarters.
Can you indicate what's driving that trend? Eric this is Clarke.
That is mostly in our prejudicial mortgage in some of the – and getting the foreclosure is done and also we had some delays and closings frankly in the first quarter because of the weather but we feel really good but we look out on the pipeline.
I believe you will see that stabilize to strike him down a bit so were not concerned about it.
It's mostly working for residential stuff but we feel good about it.
Great thank you.
And/or brokerage commissions line item was down a bit in the period which is a little bit different from peers.
Were using just a different trend activity than the broader markets? We just had really strong equity deals in the fourth-quarter that in fact strongest in our history.
We had the biggest – so we are just bouncing back from that.
If you look at the core business it is still doing very well.
– the retail broker commissions have grown about 9% so it's really nothing more and we have a strong fourth-quarter.
Got it.
Lastly as I think about your common equity Tier 1 it seems like there are several puts and takes.
There is an issue is coming and also some buyback on the numerator and the denominator you've got assets coming on potentially some relating as those assets move to the fully phased-in basis which may be Susquehanna is it may be doing today and all that kind of thing.
Net of all of that which be our expectation about your resulting common equity tier one add year and your and versus where it is today? Is that higher or lower? For the – if you looked look at the dividend request that we had and the buyback and the four acquisitions we had embedded in there we have well over 100% use of our retained earnings over this five quarter period.
So if you look at our common equity tier one call it 10 and a half now transition basis it's probably going to end up a little better 10 call it 9.8 give or take 10 basis points so we'll probably going to use 60 basis points of capital over the next five quarters.
Excellent thanks very much.
We'll go next to Marty Mosby with Vining Sparks Daryl I went to ask you a little bit more and maybe even challenge on the sale of the mortgage residential and running that portfolio down.
If you look the use our three to 3.5% on new originations and if you get rid of that the only thing you can put it into is securities.
Kelly didn't think rates were going up that quickly so I'm just curious what's driving the overall thought process here? I know Marty you are an old CFO finance guys so you understand all this stuff but if you look our match funded basis and you look at these assets these assets have a credit spread we are putting on the books well north of 100 basis points if you actually try to fund these assets call it 80 basis points.
The negative complexity you have an rates eventually do go up these assets will really start to extend out and it's just a really tough asset to fund properly over the long term.
I think selling as much as we can out and getting the revenue that we can is the right thing for our company right now.
All about overload businesses are growing really well.
We are growing even with this running off so I think that's positive.
We are stabilizing core margin with basically flat interest rates which is really pretty good in this environment.
Marty you have to keep in mind our primary driver in this is diversification.
Even if it's – were just not – not consistent with our long-term diversification strategy.
We wanted to bring it down some.
It's not dramatic but we wanted to bring it down some to get it in line with our justification plan.
Daryl just pulling that altogether what you are substituting out is the extension risk for shorter securities which is that is really what is making more asset sensitive so when you're looking at that each quarter asset sensitivity getting a little bit stronger is that what is driving that needle there? Is one part of it but the other piece is really the unbelievable strong growth we have gotten in core deposits.
Core deposits they are strong for the industry.
Our core deposits growth and community bank and corporate banking has been phenomenal.
If you go back six or seven years ago the percentage of DDA to our funding was in the midteens.
We are now over 30% DDA funded.
That is just a completely different BB&amp;T.
And then just lastly Kelly you talked a lot about the pricing pressure on loans.
As we do see rates starting to move up slowly can you envision with all the liquidity which is driving like you were saying be chasing of assets maybe being the opposite and allowing a little bit more room once you get some relief with rates moving even modestly higher to be up to re-create some deposit spreads? Absolutely.
I think that's an area that will create the training of the deposits in the system.
I think it will create an opportunity for this asset investors to – and all of that will create asset pricing increase with the banking segment.
What about deposit spreads? The deposit spreads – but I personally think is – simply because we have given up a lot of deposit you are things like NSF's and other actors over the last two or three years.
I think all of that will be Incorporated into decision-making which will cause a lag on the deposit pricing as we go up.
Thanks.
We will go next to Chris Distacio with KBW.
Good morning Kelly and Daryl how are you? Good morning.
Most of my questions have been answered but I wanted to go over the accounting change in the quarter.
That improves are operating leverage overnight correct? – the offset is not an expense – That's correct.
We basically move a negative income item out inputted in the – item.
We also restated 2014 financials so if you go back and compare numbers versus last quarter you're going to see the 2014 change.
This is proportional accounting we had to do for our tax credit businesses.
Okay I appreciate the color on page 18 of the supplement in terms of what it would have been in the past.
If I were to average those numbers both on the other income impact and the tax impact that would be roughly the same for the quarter? In other words you would've benefited from the change – injured taxes would've been up by about $40 million on the accounting change? That's right Chris.
That concludes today's question and answer session.
I would turn the conference back over to Alan Greer for additional or closing remarks.
Thanks Amber.
Thanks would joining us today.
This concludes our call.
Greetings ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the BB&amp;T Corporation Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference.
Currently all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
As a reminder this event is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Alan Greer of Investor Relations for BB&amp;T Corporation.
Thank you Tracy and good morning everyone.
Thanks to all of our listeners for joining today.
We have with us Kelly King our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Daryl Bible our Chief Financial Officer who will review the results for the second quarter of 2015.
We also have other members of our executive management team who are with us to participate in the Q&amp;A session Chris Henson our Chief Operating Officer; and Clarke Starnes our Chief Risk Officer Ricky Brown our Community Banking President who is normally with us on these calls is not available today.
He is having some shoulder surgery so we wish Ricky well with that.
We will be referencing a slide presentation during our comments today.
A copy of the presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental financial information are available on the BB&amp;T website.
Before we begin let me remind you that BB&amp;T does not provide public earnings predictions or forecasts.
However there may be statements made during the course of this call that express management’s intentions beliefs or expectations.
BB&amp;T’s actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the forward-looking statement in our presentation and our SEC filings.
In addition please note that our presentation includes certain non-GAAP disclosures.
Please refer to page two and the appendix of our presentation for the appropriate reconciliations to GAAP.
And now I will turn it over to Kelly.
Thank you Alan.
Good morning everybody.
And thanks for your continued interest in BB&amp;T and thanks for joining our call.
So we had a really solid quarter frankly with excellent start [ph] strategic results revenues were up linked and like quarters and I might add in a relatively tough revenue environment excellent credit quality capital and liquidity so overall a very solid quarter.
Net income was $454 million in the second quarter; diluted EPS totaled $0.62 but if you exclude the non-cash loss on American Coastal and merger related charges it was $0.69.
Fee income ratio continued to improve to a very nice level of 46.3% versus 45.8% in the first quarter ‘15 and if you ex the American Coastal non-cash loss and the AmRisc [ph] our ROA 1.17 ROE was 9.06 and importantly our return on tangible common equity is 14.05.
From revenue point of view we were very pleased.
Our revenue totaled $2.4 billion up $23 million or 3.9% annualized; revenue increased 1.3% versus second quarter of ‘14 kind of lot of fee income positive is particularly in mortgage banking and investment banking.
Our fee income ratio continued to be strong as I said and we think that is a continuing positive for our company.
In the lending area our average loans grew 3.9% versus first quarter but if you exclude our planned residential mortgage run off it was 7.8% which was very good in this environment.
That area was led by C&amp;I Direct Retail Sheffield and Regional Acceptance.
As I said we had some very strong strategic developments during the quarter.
We did complete the sale of American Coastal and significantly increased our ownership in AmRisc but it basically in concept it eliminates the small underwriting risk that we had in American Coastal.
We reinvested that in AmRisc which increases our ownership in a really solid fee-income business so some net real positive from a quality point of view.
We successfully closed and converted the Bank of Kentucky on June 19th.
It’s going great.
I was out there last week for a visit with the groups and a whole day with them had breakfast with a group of tellers and associates.
And they were very excited to have meeting with the senior leadership team and then had a meeting with all of their officers and Board members.
And I’ll say although very early it’s off to an extremely positive start and Northern Kentucky Greater Cincinnati market is really fantastic for us.
Very excited about the fact we’ve got approval for Susquehanna with a planned August 1st acquisition and a conversion later in the fourth quarter.
This whole process is going very- very smoothly.
The receptivity in the markets has been great.
I was up in Lancaster last week Susquehanna was a key sponsor in the LPGA a golf tournament and so had a chance to meet a lot of clients a lot of associates and attitudes were extremely positive.
This is a great company.
You may have noticed they got number one in client service quality by J.D.
Power in the Mid-Atlantic region recently.
By the way BB&amp;T was the best number one of large banks in that period.
It’s a huge opportunity for us in really good markets.
These markets are a lot like a rest of our footprint kind of a combination of some good solid rural and mid part of the state good medium sized cities just like we’ve always operated in excellent large market in Philadelphia excellent wealth opportunity really strong core banking opportunity.
So it’s going be really really good for us.
And don’t forget this is a really big scale opportunity for us with regard to expenses.
If you are following along on the deck look at slide four.
We always like to point out a few selected items that affect earnings.
So we did have a positive income tax adjustment of $0.15 on an after-tax basis.
So we did extinguish about a $1 billion of federal home loan bank debt which had $0.15 negative EPS impact.
So they are just kind of washed out.
We did have a non-cash loss on sale of American Coastal of $0.05 and we had $0.02 in merger-related restructuring charges.
So the way I look at it that was about $0.07 negative impact to recurring earnings.
If you follow along on slide five I’ll give you a little more commentary with regard to the lending business.
Our C&amp;I loan growth was very strong.
Average C&amp;I loans were up $1.1 billion or 10.6% annualized.
We had strong growth in corporate lending mortgage warehouse lending and government finance.
I will tell you the C&amp;I lending is currently mostly in larger participations and it’s very competitive so spreads are very tight although I’m proud of the fact that our spreads were basically flat compared to the first quarter which is a big achievement given the environment.
We do currently expect C&amp;I to continue to grow in the low double-digit range in the second quarter if you exclude our pending acquisition of Susquehanna and after you’d include Susquehanna C&amp;I will likely see 30% annualized.
CRE in the construction and development area increased $33 million or about 4.8% annualized and the period balances were up more than $200 million but about 40% of that was from acquisition of Bank of Kentucky.
Organic growth was strong based on a very positive change and then we had a material decrease in pay-off activity that we saw last quarter.
We are seeing strong growth in fundings of multifamily construction and hospitality projects.
Spreads on C&amp;I lending in this case actually improved during the second quarter and our expectation is that C&amp;I growth to be a bit stronger in the third quarter.
CRE income producing increased $50 million or 1.9%.
This was strong growth in industrial retail property segments.
And the period balance was up almost $400 million but most of that most due to the Bank of Kentucky.
Market fundamentals generally continue to improve.
This is a really good market now.
Spreads continue to tighten but on a net adjusted basis risk adjusted basis they’re still very solid.
So looking next quarter we expect C&amp;I TP [ph] to show strong growth due to continued organic success and the impact of full quarter of Bank of Kentucky and remember we’ll have a partial quarter of Susquehanna.
If you look at average direct retail lending it’s a really really strong story for us.
A lot of work has been done on that last year and a half and it’s really beginning to pay-off.
We’ve increased $258 million almost 13% annualized primarily due to HELOCs and direct auto lending in the branches.
This is the sea change from the last 25 or 30 years they are really beginning to make a lot of good auto loans in the branches which is outstanding.
Wealth’s contribution to the direct retail lending continued here at record levels on market [ph] basis really good production from the community banks.
So the wealth strategy just continues to be an outstanding success which continued to have significant momentum in direct retail lending in the third quarter and we expect direct retail to grow at a faster pace part of that’s due to full quarter impact of Bank of Kentucky but most of that strategy is really working.
And average sales finance which is largely prime auto lending for us we grew modestly in the second quarter slow and significantly from the first quarter.
We’re trying to be really careful with regard to frankly pricing in that market is extraordinarily competitive and the prime space spreads are really really thin.
It’s our lowest yielding asset.
And we’re really just kind of turning it back in terms of our volume expectations.
So unless the spread opportunities change you would expect to see that decline for us.
But on the risk adjusted capital adjusted basis that’s a net positive change.
Average residential mortgage loans were down $565 million 7.4%.
Remember this is our plan of letting that run-off because we’re essentially selling all conforming production.
Our positive retail originations into the quarter were 5.5 billion up from 4 billion in the first quarter.
They were modestly versus last quarter but stronger than the second quarter of last year.
Gain on sales declined due to slight -- our correspondent channel mix.
So looking ahead we continue to expect contraction in our resi portfolio; we hope to continue that strategy and we think we will for some period of time.
So in the third quarter absent the impact of Susquehanna that will continue to decline.
If you include Susquehanna the residential mortgage will likely grow.
But remember that’s not a change strategy that’s just bringing on the Susquehanna balances.
And other lending subsidiaries grew $383 million or 13.6%.
This was a strong seasonal quarter for us.
Strongest components were Sheffield Grandbridge AFCO/CAFO it’s called our insurance premium finance business and Regional Acceptance.
Third quarter also reasonably strong; that will drop-off some in the fourth quarter but we do expect third quarter to have double-digit growth in this category.
So to sum up we expect average total loans from investments held to be an annualized 3% to 5% in the third quarter on organic basis; excluding residential mortgage we expect it to be 6% to 8%.
Obviously if you include all the deals we’ll have growth that will be probably in the 30% range.
And we would expect at the end of the third quarter end of period loans to be $135 billion.
So if you will turn to the next slide we’ll give you just a little bit of commentary with regard to deposits.
That story just continues to be outstanding excellent deposit growth really continued to improve deposit mix.
Overall our non-interest bearing DDA grew 18.2%; if you exclude acquisitions it’s still a very strong 13.7%.
Personal business and public funds all grew 12.8% 15.3% 8.8% respectively versus second quarter ‘14.
DDA deposit mix was the strong 31.5% versus 28.3% in the second quarter ‘14.
And our cost of interest-bearing deposits continues to come down steadily to 0.24%.
So we made excellent progress over last couple of years in that area.
So it’s a solid quarter as you can see.
We’re very excited about the growth opportunities and the efficiency gains that we’re going to experience heading into the next year.
Before I turn it to Daryl I just want to emphasize we are really focused on efficiencies.
The market is good; we think it’s growing at a solid 2 to 2.5 growth rate which is better than most of the world but it’s not a really robust growth rate.
And so we believe in that environment that experienced management continues to be extremely important.
We have laser focus on organic expense management and we will absolutely gain efficiencies and expense management through the combination of Bank of Kentucky and Susquehanna.
Let me turn it to Daryl now to give you some more color on some other areas.
Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
This morning I am going to talk about credit quality net interest margin fee income non-interest expense capital our segment results and the impact of acquisitions on our results continuing on slide seven.
As Kelly said a few moments ago we are very pleased to report a solid second quarter.
Credit quality was excellent; net charge-offs were 33 basis points down 3% bit better than we expected.
Excluding Regional Acceptance net charge-offs were only 20 basis points.
Loans past due increased 4% due to seasonality in Regional Acceptance.
Going forward we expect net charge-offs including Susquehanna to be between 35 and 45 basis points in the third quarter assuming no material decline in the economy.
NPAs declined 5% and commercial NPLs declined 12% from last quarter.
We expect NPA levels to remain stable including acquisitions.
Turning to slide eight our allowance coverage remains very strong increasing to 3.7 times from 3.6 times net charge-offs last quarter.
The allowance includes the impact from the recent SNC exam.
[Ph] We recorded a provision of 97 million for the quarter compared to net charge-offs of 98 million.
Going forward our provision will likely be driven by actual losses incurred and loan growth.
We currently expect third quarter for provision to increase 15 million to 30 million to allow for the impact of the acquired portfolios and retail loan seasonality.
The fourth quarter provision is expected to be 25 million to 40 million greater than the second quarter.
Continuing on slide nine.
Net interest margin was 3.27% down 6 basis points and within guidance we provided you last quarter.
The decline resulted from runoff of acquired assets and lower yields on new loans and securities offset by funding mix improvement.
Core margin was 3.16 down 2 basis points.
Looking forward including Susquehanna we expect GAAP margin to increase about 4 to 6 basis points in both third and fourth quarters resulting in a GAAP margin in the mid 3.30s by year-end.
We expect core margin to remain relatively flat in the third and fourth quarters unless interest rates start to rise.
Looking at our sensitivity table we became slightly less asset sensitive in the second quarter mostly due to the Federal Home Loan Bank terminations and investment and deposits funding mix changes.
However we will definitely benefit when the Fed starts to raise interest rates.
Turning to slide 10 our fee income producing businesses had a strong quarter.
With fee income ratio increasing to 46.3% total fee income was $1 billion up $22 million compared to last quarter.
The change in fee income was mostly driven by these factors: First mortgage banking increased $20 million mostly reflecting higher net MSR related income and higher commercial mortgage volume.
Second investment banking and brokerage fees increased $14 million mostly driven by higher capital markets activity.
This growth was offset by $18 million decline in insurance income mostly due to the sale of American Coastal and a seasonal decline in employee benefit related revenues.
Finally other income decreased $25 million due to the loss on sale of American Coastal.
Looking forward we will have a seasonal decline in insurance revenues in the third quarter plus softer mortgage revenue.
We will gain a partial quarter benefit of $25 million to $30 million from Susquehanna.
But overall fee income for the third quarter is expected to be flat to down 2%.
In the fourth quarter fee income is expected to increase 3% to 5% both versus second quarter.
Turning to slide 11.
Non-interest expenses increased consistent with our guidance.
Personnel expense increased due to higher production related incentives acquisitions annual merit increases and higher equity-based compensation for retirement eligible associates.
FTEs were up 489 mostly due to acquisitions.
Excluding the loss on debt restructuring and merger charges expenses were up $47 million driven by personnel related costs which include new Texas and Kentucky branches.
Looking at Texas our effective tax rate was 13.8% due to the STARS recovery.
The adjusted tax rate was 32.2%.
Going forward we expect our effective tax rate to be around 30%.
Excluding the loss on debt restructure and merger charges we expect non-interest expense to increase 3% to 5% due to the upcoming Susquehanna acquisition.
In the fourth quarter we expect 6% to 8% increase versus second quarter in non-interest expense due to the full quarter impact of Susquehanna.
Excluding merger related costs our fourth quarter core expenses are expected to be approximately 1 550 million.
We also expect 60 million to 80 million in merger charges for both third and fourth quarters.
We are very confident we will improve our efficiency and reduce these expenses.
We are already on our way to achieve our targeted savings for Susquehanna by the end of 2016.
At least 32% of their expense based will be driven out of the run rate.
Turning to slide 12 capital ratios remain very strong with Basel III common equity Tier 1 capital at 10.4%.
Bank of Kentucky and AmRisc transactions use 18 basis points of our common equity Tier 1 capital.
Looking at liquidity our LCR declined to 118% due to increases in interest rates affecting mark to market on securities non-operating deposits at wholesale funding.
Our LCR was well above the minimum required 90% which starts in 2016 and our liquid asset buffer at the end of the quarter was strong at 13.3%.
Looking briefly at our segments starting on slide 13.
Community bank’s net income was up $24 million from last quarter driven by deposit growth and higher funding spreads on deposits partially offset by lower interest rates on new loans.
Loan production was very good commercial was up 10%; direct retail was up 35% and revolving credit was up 22%.
The conversion of Bank of Kentucky was a big success and we are preparing for third quarter closing and fourth quarter conversion of Susquehanna.
Turning to slide 14.
Residential mortgage net income totaled $72 million up $8 million from the first quarter.
This is driven by higher loan production and an increase in net MSR income.
And credit quality continues to remain strong.
Turning to slide 15.
Dealer financial services continues to generate strong loan growth with average loans up 6% for dealer finance excluding wholesale and 10% for regional acceptance.
Dealer finance launched a flat-fee dealer compensation program on July 1st.
This approach eliminates pricing discretion in a consumer transaction.
Asset quality indicators for dealer finance and regional acceptance continue to perform well within our risk appetite.
Regional Acceptance opened a new office in Kansas City and additional office in Northern Virginia is planned for later this year.
Turning to slide 16.
Specialized lending net income totaled $70 million up $13 million from last quarter.
Drivers include strong loan production for commercial mortgage income solid loan growth in small ticket and consumer loans from Sheffield and strong production from mortgage warehouse.
Credit metrics remain strong with charge-offs at 16 basis points.
Moving to slide 17.
Insurance services net income total $53 million down $19 million from last quarter mostly driven by a seasonal decrease in employing benefit insurance commissions and the sale of America Coastal.
Year to date new business growth was very healthy at 14% for retail and 17% for wholesale.
Same-store sales achieved growth of 2%.
As a reminder the AmRisc transaction eliminates our exposure to underwriting risk and enhances our investment in high growth business.
Insurance services acquired NAPCO a wholesale broker with commercial property catastrophe insurance coverage.
On slide 18 since last quarter financial services generated significant corporate loan growth of 17% and wealth experienced 13% loan growth.
June was a record month for wealth lending in both dollars as well as units.
And corporate banking’s average deposits grew 38% on an annualized basis.
Turning to slide 19.
Let me recap the impact of our acquisitions.
Including Susquehanna we expect total loans of approximately $135 billion and securities of approximately $43 billion at the end of the quarter.
In terms of credit we expect third quarter provision increase of $15 million to $30 million and a fourth quarter provision increase of $25 million to $40 million.
These estimates are both compared to this quarter and depend on loan losses and loan growth.
We will update these numbers post acquisition at our next investor conference.
Looking at net interest margin we expect Susquehanna to result in an increase in GAAP margin of about 4 to 6 basis points in both third and fourth quarters.
Fee income is expected to be flat to down 2% in the third quarter.
And the fourth quarter fee income is expected to increase 3% to 5% versus second quarter ‘15.
The impact of the AmRisc investment will reduce controlling -- will reduce non-controlling interest expense in the range of $5 million to $15 million per quarter depending on seasonality.
Finally looking at non-interest expense excluding the loss on debt restructuring and merger charges expenses are expected to increase 3% to 5% in the third quarter and 6% to 8% in the fourth both off of second quarter ‘15.
We are on our way to achieving targeted savings for Susquehanna by the end of 2015.
At least 32% of their expense base will be driven out of the runway.
In summary we produced a solid quarter including very strong loan growth revenue growth and excellent credit quality.
We look forward to executing the opportunities of our merger partners in the coming quarters.
Now let me turn it back over to Kelly for closing remarks and Q&amp;A.
Thanks Daryl.
So just to hit a couple of points that Daryl made and sum it.
I think it was a really solid performance organically.
As I said we had excellent strategic execution outstanding credit quality capital and liquidity positive revenue forecast expense efficiency opportunity.
And it’s a tough environment but overall for BB&amp;T actually we’re pretty excited about the future.
So let’s go Alan to Q&amp;A.
Thank you Kelly.
Tracy at this time if you would come back on the call and explain how our participants can participate in the Q&amp;A session? [Operator Instructions] And we’ll go first to Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Two questions on the acquisition; one is -- and first of all thanks for all the details very helpful on slide 19.
The question is just on the timing of the cost saves -- I think on the merger and integration charges you are pretty clear that there’s going to be peak in 4Q ‘15.
How do you see the timing of the cost saves over the course of -- starting in a couple of quarters to the 4Q ‘16? So Betsy the cost saves goes essentially here up [ph] in fourth quarter look what we had though but I’d say that the cost saves will start occurring immediately and will be pretty basically completed by the end of ‘16.
Okay.
But that should be like linear or there is going be a bump… It will be a negative curve linear.
[Ph] I mean it will come off fast early on and then slower as you go towards the end of the year.
Okay.
And then pulling it altogether the accretion you’re looking for from the deal is it still in that 2% to 3% range? Yes.
We’re still targeting 3% what we originally said and we’ll just see once we close on Susquehanna and see how we go forward and see how the loan portfolio performs and how we can efficiently find ways to run the company at future points.
Absolutely.
Betsy based on what we know now versus what we knew when we announced that thing and having spent a lot of time out there I’d be marginally more positive than I was to start with.
This is just a -- it’s a really good company and the great markets the receptivity of that company has been outstanding.
Cultural integration is really smooth.
So it will be a great merger.
Alright so it sounds like 3% plus.
Okay thank you.
Yes.
And we’ll take our next question from Ken Usdin from Jefferies.
Thanks a lot.
Daryl just one follow-up on the balance sheet.
Thank you for giving us the period ends on the loans and the securities.
And I’m just wondering is there any other mix shift changes that we should consider when we’re thinking about the size the total size of the balance sheet going forward.
Are you mixing out of cash or any other assets or is that going to be a pretty good read on where the earning assets should be? I think the earning assets should pretty much be what we told you.
On the liability side we are extinguishing the Federal home loan bank advances and you’ll see us starting to call some of their trust preferred and other sub debt obligations as we’re allowed to get those calls.
So those will come off the balance sheet to help with run-rate.
So does that kind of get us in the 180 range on earning assets? Yes that would be correct.
I mean that’s right.
Second question just on fee income there is always a couple of moving parts and especially this quarter with insurance side.
So can you just give us an update on how much that’s influencing the fee guide here in terms of the seasonality the loss of the -- absence of the sold revenues and what you’re looking for in that part of the business looking ahead? This is Chris Henson I’d be happy to do that.
It is a bit confusing.
Last time I think mentioned we would be up about 3.3%; we did not at that time have approval to move forward American Coastal.
So that happened subsequent to that guidance.
So in fact what happened what you should kind of look forward in third quarter is you would see fee income insurance drop in the 13% 14% range about 10% of that would be tagged to the loss of American Coastal the balance would be seasonal.
And then from there you should see fourth quarter sort of moving up in 7.5% to 8.5% range to finish off the year.
So you have overall loss of revenue due to American Coastal in 2015 would be in the 90 million 92 million kind of range.
So what you ended up with is seasonality.
Those introduced just a bit more seasonality into the picture.
On a go forward basis if you were to kind of rerun this over ‘15 numbers and assuming the deal happened first quarter comparing with the deal without a deal look at pure seasonality.
First and second quarter are going to be relatively flat maybe a 1% or so different.
In a typical seasonality on a go forward basis you’re going to be down in the third -- in the 8.5% kind of range and you should be up in the 4% 5.5% 6.5% kind of range something like that.
So seasonality in insurance will be relatively flat with first a little stronger first and second then it falls in the third and then fourth quarter will be back up.
And we’ll go next to Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Kelly can you really give us some thoughts on your outlook? Obviously you have two successful deals here particularly the Susquehanna deal which is a good size win.
What your view is on M&amp;A for maybe next year especially in light of the fact that some of your bigger competitors seem to be getting their internal systems upto a level that I think is acceptable to the regulators to maybe allow them to start to do bigger deals in the second half of next year and into ‘17.
So maybe give us how you see the landscape developing over the next 12 to 18 months? Gerard we’ve said for some time now that of course our M&amp;A strategy is a supplement to our organic growth strategy and it remains so.
I consistently say we would like to do 5% to 10% of our asset size in good quality acquisitions; we did that this year with Bank of Kentucky and Susquehanna.
So that’s $10 billion to $20 billion in a year I feel confident in that same category range for next year.
There are a number of institutions let’s just say in the $5 billion to $20 billion the range that I think are considering their strategic opportunities and may present some availabilities.
The fact that there may be some other competitors out there to me is not something I have spent a lot of time worrying about.
The partners that we talk to are ones that we’ve known a long time and our cultures are very very similar our strategies are similar.
And so I think that -- I mean there are some great other competitors out there in terms of acquiring companies and we won’t get them all; we don’t want them all.
So I think there’s a very high probability that’s going be what we like to do.
As a follow-up Daryl any commentary on -- you’ve obviously converted to single general ledger.
Did you -- I know Bank of Kentucky was a small deal; Susquehanna will be a better test for you folks on the integration.
Is there a possibility you could get better expense savings because of better execution due to the newer systems you have? I would say that the newer systems down the road could give us some expense savings.
We’re still trying to get all the general ledger to be connected to the SAP system there are other pieces that we’re adding on to it this year and into next year.
I would say that just -- opportunities that will walk you [ph] right away.
So Gerard the way this works it won’t be specifically around acquisitions.
The efficiencies in the system currencies [ph] when you really put all the technical out of the GO [ph] out through all they have disparate systems and when you’re drawing information in to the GO CCAR purposes and other management purposes the host of information becomes much more seamless and efficient.
So it’s not specific but it doesn’t mean when you do an acquisition you are more efficient.
But as Daryl said we’ll continue to peel that out and it will take a little while before we get to the optimum state.
But it is definitely a long-term efficiency improvement.
We’ll take our next question from John Pancari from Evercore ISI.
Regarding a margin outlook I know you have indicated stable for the core margin in third quarter.
That implies I guess that Susquehanna has no real benefit to the margin despite having a somewhat higher margin I guess.
So is that the case or is there any other factor impacting that? John when we bring Susquehanna in we’re going basically mark-to-market the balance sheet.
So in essence their loans and their deposits come over to our company.
Our best guess is core remains stable and then when interest rates start to rise when the Fed starts raising and our core gets some expansion.
We do get GAAP accretion on purchase accounting with Susquehanna that’s in the neighborhood of over two quarters; that will be 8 to 12 basis points.
Right okay.
But the core doesn’t benefit much? Not until really the Fed starts raising rates.
And then separately also on Susquehanna can you just give us your updated thoughts on the plans for the Hann auto lease subsidiary? I know that was kind of on the table but what you do with that? And then secondly on Susquehanna I just wonder if you could talk a little about revenue enhancement opportunity not that we’re out here trying to model that out but it just seems like given their product breadth versus what BBT brings that there could really be opportunity to drive upside to that 3% accretion from the revenue side? John this is Clarke Starnes.
I’ll take the Hann question.
We’re working very closely with our partners at Susquehanna to evaluate how we integrate that platform and how we think about it going forward.
We’re fairly large in the sales finance business so we believe the merger gives us an excellent opportunity in the Northeast and Pennsylvania and New Jersey markets.
And so certainly Hann and the platform they have there around sales finance will be a benefit for us but we’re still evaluating what our appetite is for the leasing -- the consumer leasing component of that and we’ll make those plans as soon as we can subsequent to the purchase.
John just one point John and then Chris can take a point.
On revenue they have a really good start retail strategy.
So we won’t change that dramatically frankly.
But the two big areas are going to be huge left one is in corporate where we have a broader range of products and larger size these two larger deals that they couldn’t do and then others as well which Chris will talk about.
John there is two I’ll focus on insurance and wealth.
They have a retail insurance franchise called Addis Insurance and so we’ll be converting that over in early fall.
And that will give us a good beachhead start.
And we typically don’t get in these type acquisitions.
And then we will look to acquire our way in and around their footprint.
So we clearly have upside revenue there; timing is uncertain.
We’re already beginning to talk to potential opportunities over there.
Secondly we have a really nice opportunity in wealth.
They had two subs ones is Valley Forge that will plug into our wealth insurance business and we’ll bring all of our products to them to be able to deliver to the client which I think is really helpful.
And then they have a business called Stratton Management this is asset management.
We will plug that into our serving capital business.
And we think a lot of opportunity again to provide more distribution to our company to help them move more far.
So there are couple of additional good opportunities we believe.
And we’ll go next to Stephen Scouten with Sandler O’Neill.
Question for you about the insurance fees and just the guidance moving forward there specifically with the American Coastal and AmRisc.
If I’m understanding the guidance there about the loss of revenues and the potential benefit is that like a net negative to overall insurance for overall revenues by about 60 million a year? Well it’s actually going to be -- it actually could be a bit more than it.
let me if I could just step back again and sort of read to the concept of why we did this because I think it’s pretty important.
We had two businesses one American Coastal which we disposed off we owned 100% of and then AmRisc which is a faster growing business we own just a little less than half but have control.
So given we have control we already have consolidated 100% of their numbers into ours.
So you won’t see a move up at the top line from AmRisc what you will see to Daryl’s earlier point is you’ll see a reduction in controlling interest which thereby means we will report more profitability out of that business by like amount.
So don’t expect to see any improvement or increase in revenues as a result of AmRisc although it is a higher margin business and is a faster growing business and it is critical to the long-term piece of our enterprise because it interacts directly with our wholesale business and we’re the second largest wholesaler in the country.
So it was integral to the long term franchise to repayment.
Unlike an underwriting business that frankly is not to have but it presented risk.
Then actually the benefit of moving Am Coastal out is it reduces risk.
So to answer your question it’s actually about 140 million revenue company that would come out in terms of Am Coastal.
And all I was saying earlier is that in last quarter’s guidance we did not know when it was going to close.
So we actually closed it June 1st.
And so we have about 11 million in revenue this quarter and then it will drop in the third quarter we think about total revenue about 13% or so percent.
And about 10% of that would be Am Coastal.
Thereafter fourth quarter we bought [ph] back up in the 7.5% we 8.5% range.
The other thing to remember is that the whole business is gone.
So it’s not just revenue that correlates it’s expenses; it’s earnings.
So I think in short term it be might dilutive a penny or so but long term AmRisc was growing a lot faster American Coastal was more of a stable cash cow company.
So we think over the next couple of year we’ll actually turn from being slightly dilutive to being accretive.
So how we see it -- that is exactly right we see it being sort of a dilutive penny year one; roughly flattish year two and then growing thereafter.
Because keep in mind it’s directly tied to the second largest wholesaler in the country so very critical long-term.
And then one other question about the capital deployment timeline; are there any changes to that or you still expecting to start implementing the buyback in 3Q or would there be changes to that still with the potential announcement of incremental MK&amp;A there? So Stephen remember that we’ve said consistently that our strategy with regard to capital deployment is our organic growth dividends M&amp;A and then adjusted forward buyback.
We did have request and was approved for about $820 million or so of buyback and/or alternative uses of capital in our CCAR plan.
We did recently have the board approve 50 million shares of that so we have functionally approved.
But we actually consider what we do buyback on a day to day kind of basis based on our projection of acquisition opportunities.
And frankly the price of our stock and return in terms of applying stock backs.
So we can’t tell you what that decision will be the decision we will be making on a real time basis based on opportunities as they present themselves.
So the implication there would be if you’re not buying back stock aggressively towards that 820 million in say 3Q then the likelihood of M&amp;A is probably higher.
Is that fair assessment? That would be a rush on induction.
And we’ll take our next question from Geoffrey Elliott from Autonomous.
I’ve got a question on the expense side.
Could you give a bit more color on the 7% increase in personnel expense year-on-year just how we reconcile that with the overall decline in average employees over the period? So I mean if you look at the expenses we noted in our deck that expenses were up due to our higher key businesses which tend to pay out higher incentives so that would be in mortgage Grandbridge and investment banking.
So that’s a big driver.
On a year-over-year basis AmRisc kind of washes other out.
we did have higher cost in our healthcare oriented.
And if you look at pension on a year-over-year basis that’s higher.
So those are probably the main drivers.
We also have Citi and Bank of Kentucky that came in.
Those actually are adding not just FTEs there but they do have other run rate expenses.
When I look at the delta I look at more on a linked quarter than on a year-over-year quarter but on a linked quarter it’s about 9 million higher but absolutely in the second quarter it’s about 12 million just Bank of Kentucky and Citi so far and cost us more expenses in the second quarter before we start getting cost savings from Bank of Kentucky.
And we’ll go next to Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
On the federal loan bank borrowing extinguishment does that clear at all your federal loan bank borrowings? Is there other opportunities to lower your borrowing costs by getting really some more other stuff down the road? Paul we still have a little over $2 billion of what I would call long-term federal home bank advances that have average cost of over 4.5%.
Right now the plan is to keep those on the books unless we have other opportunities to offset that.
I think you saw us do a debt issuance as well.
So we’re still keeping long fixed rate but we re-price the long-term debt down well over to 200 basis points.
And then the other question.
You talked about this in your opening comments about the competitiveness of lending out there or what not.
And we’ve seen some of your competitors talk about the middle market commercial businesses are being really overbanked out there.
Can you add some color? You’ve seen the same stuff in the middle market and how do you define middle market at BB&amp;T? We define middle market generally companies with revenues up to about a $0.5 billion or so; everyone has a different view.
So we probably own more.
The lower end of the middle market is where we play those prominently and certainly in that space as well as the larger in shared credit space is extremely competitive.
My personal opinion is some of the leverage lending guidance and push down around or limits around that is pushing the whole market more towards the middle market space and there is even more effort to bank those clients.
And I think it’s highly competitive.
And as Kelly said though we’re doing really well there and we’ve done excellent job particularly in the last quarter or two in maintaining our spreads in a very very difficult environment.
[Operator Instructions] And we’ll go next to Vivek Juneja from JP Morgan.
Hi couple of questions one is I want to confirm the 3% accretion from Susquehanna that already includes some revenue enhancement right? I would say it was really driven more by cost saves.
We do have fee income increasing over a five year time period but I would say the accretion out of the blocks in the first year or two is really more driven by cost saves Vivek.
And that over time is [indiscernible] thing and community bank and for us to get it perform the BB&amp;T standards and we really get higher lift in lending as well as in our fee income areas.
Second thing: The efficiency ratio.
Can you talk a little bit about why it’s up linked quarter? And when I look at the efficiency ratio this is where it was in the fourth quarter it’s been a bit jump; it’s up I think looking at your own calculations of adjusted for non-recurring it’s up 300-400 basis points.
That’s a big change.
Can you walk through why it’s gone up this quarter linked quarter and what’s the plan for that? We said at the beginning of the year that we are not going to be spending as much time talking about efficiency ratio just probably as you pointed out it’s [indiscernible] kind of question.
And when you get so tightly focused on that one number it gets to be misleading often times because it moves up or down based on what happens to the expenses and/or the revenues.
So generally right now though what’s happening to us is that our expenses are elevated as we talked about all along in terms of our systems investments risk management investments and some pre-investments with regard to some of the M&amp;A activity.
So all of that’s kind of driving some of your expenses up.
And so what we think now in terms of the general level of efficiency ratio given what I said in terms of the -- and ability to be real precise about it is that it’s kind of peaked.
And we think as we hit through next year it will be slowly coming down.
We still have an intermediate term target of 55% and we feel confident we’ll be move ahead in that direction as we heads towards the end of next year.
And one last thing so going back to acquisitions versus buybacks it sounds like you are ready to do -- look at further deals Kelly right away.
Is that -- is there a plan to just -- if you have to hold-off buybacks sort of quarter or two till you figure that out or is that -- is the approval based on a per quarter basis what you’re supposed to get done? Well the approval is basically based on kind of how you earn the capital.
So we -- those spread on a linear basis over the course of the year.
But we have availability in the current quarter to do buybacks if we choose to.
And as I said earlier it’s a function of our expectations around investment opportunities and our evaluation of our price relative to return in terms of acquiring our own stock.
So you’re not going to be able to judge precisely exactly what we’ll be able to do with that because we’re not going to tell you exactly.
We don’t know exactly it moves along.
So what we really have to do is to judge the probabilities of investment opportunities and that’s not a science; this is more of an art.
And I’m optimistic over the next 12 months or so we’ll do -- have additional investment opportunities.
Whether or not they coincide in a timeframe such that it would preclude us doing buybacks or not is we’re unable to tell at this point.
And we’ll take our next question from Terry McEvoy from Stephens Inc.
Daryl I was wondering if you could talk about your thoughts on purchase accounting accretion in 2016 specifically when does it peak; is it earlier in the year? And then what type of run-off or decline are you thinking about as the year progresses? For Susquehanna -- Bank of Kentucky really doesn’t have a huge amount of purchase accounting.
So I’ll just deal with mainly Susquehanna.
I would say that with the credit mark that we have which is about 4.5% there will be approximately little under $600 million of accretable purchase accounting income that basically goes through net interest income over the life of the assets.
At the same time though we will have more loans that we take losses on and those loans will increase provision.
And the timing won’t necessarily match up.
It’s too early to say what the losses will be in the Susquehanna portfolio but know that we pretty much locked down the $580 million over life of the assets to call it five plus years.
But it would be more earlier on and then it would tell off towards the end of the five-year period.
And the losses could be sporadic over that same time period.
The other thing to note is the portfolio of Susquehanna has to put it on the book; doesn’t have an allowance to it.
As new volume comes on from Susquehanna we have to provide for an allowance there.
That’s why we are talking about potential growth impact also of that portfolio on the provision.
Thanks and then as a follow-up service charge is down 2.5% year-over-year.
How much of that is a function of consumer behavior versus any specific actions you’ve taken internally? And as you look ahead anything to make you optimistic that that line of business will stabilize? And as it relates to Susquehanna are there practices as it relates to these types of fees consistent with BB&amp;T’s? I think it is largely consumer behavior.
I mean clients have more access to information technologically and their overgrowing list and… We have higher deposit balances so our clients are carrying larger balances now on hand which seems they pay less in fees and just more with compensating balances.
And we’ll take our next question from Nancy Bush from NAB Research.
We’ve had some kind of mix commentary on economic outlook in the past couple of days.
Richard Davis has been kind of bear on the economy came out and made some very strongly positive statements yesterday.
But we’ve had some other companies that were a little bit more subdued.
Could you just give us your outlook and particularly with regard to the Southeast? Yes Nancy I suppose between some of the commentary you heard I would be -- where I have been which kind of in the middle of the road nothing -- economy has done a really solid 2% to 5% -- I mean 2% to 2.5% real GDP growth.
I see very little risk of any downside on that.
I see very little opportunity it could be substantially better than that until we get closer to election math you get some real positive leadership information out of DC and there is some upside opportunity.
But for the next 12 months I think you will be pretty solidly focused on 2% to 2.5% which is actually pretty good for you.
This is nominal at about 4.5% to 5% in terms of motion as a whole.
I think [indiscernible] Nancy can probably beat that a bit because you’re not talking about every year this actually clearly took it on the chin.
And everything go devalued but it has been -- values have been reset; activity slows and Florida back to grow and 800 people a day including Texas 1 000 people a day but Atlanta’s [ph] turned finally and the coastal markets of Carolina have tuned.
So I’d say the Southeast will be net positive to the national growth rate not dramatically but if the national is 2.5% I wouldn’t be a bit surprised to see the Southeast has 3.5%.
And sort of ancillary to that the outlook for the mortgage business how do you see your mortgage banking activities proceeding over time here? Are we in sort of last -- great wave of purchase activity or how do you see BB&amp;T proceeding in that business over the next couple of years? I think it will be steady to slightly up.
The refinance it is kind of last of that I think that’s on dramatic international events.
But look purchase activity is really picking up; new home construction is up substantially and new home purchases is up; we’re seeing a shift toward high percentage of purchases versus refis.
So I think you can think about it in terms of the steady to up not dramatic up steady to up.
We are out of time for questions.
So this concludes today’s question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the call back to Mr.
Alan Greer for any closing or additional remarks.
Okay.
Thank you Tracy.
And thanks again everybody for joining us today.
If you have further questions feel free to contact Tamera or myself in Investor Relations.
Thank you and we hope you have a great day.
This does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Greetings ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the BB&amp;T Corporation Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference.
Currently all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
As a reminder this event is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Alan Greer of Investor Relations for BB&amp;T Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Eric and good morning everyone.
Thanks to all of our listeners for joining us today.
We have with us today Kelly King our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Daryl Bible our Chief Financial Officer who will review the results for the third quarter of 2015.
We also have other members of our executive management team who are with us to participate in the Q&amp;A session Chris Henson our Chief Operating Officer; Clarke Starnes our Chief Risk Officer and Ricky Brown our Community Banking President.
We will be referencing a slide presentation during our comments.
A copy of the presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental financial information are available on the BB&amp;T website.
Before we begin let me remind you that BB&amp;T does not provide public earnings predictions or forecasts.
However there may be statements made during the course of this call that express management’s intentions beliefs or expectations.
BB&amp;T’s actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the forward-looking statement in our presentation and our SEC filings.
In addition please note that our presentation includes certain non-GAAP disclosures.
Please refer to page two and the appendix of our presentation for the appropriate reconciliations to GAAP.
And now I will turn it over to Kelly.
Thanks Alan.
Good morning everybody.
And thanks for joining our call.
We always appreciate your interest in our company.
I’d say overall we had a strong quarter with higher revenues improved net interest margin continued excellent asset quality very strong capital and liquidity and importantly we had three significant strategic developments which I will discuss.
Net income was $490 million up 8.4% versus last quarter on a GAAP basis.
Our diluted EPS totaled $0.64 up an annualized 12.8% versus second quarter of 2015 and 3.2% versus last quarter.
Excluding $77 million of pretax merger-related and restructuring charges our adjusted diluted EPS totaled $0.70 up an annualized 5.7% versus second quarter 2015.
And importantly our adjusted ROA was 1.13% and adjusted ROTCE was 14.4%.
So we feel very good about that.
In terms of revenues revenues totaled $2.5 billion up $122 million largely due to Susquehanna which we closed on August 1 that is an annualized 20.4%.
If you exclude the acquisition revenues were lower due mainly to insurance seasonality soft insurance pricing in that market and the sale of American Coastal which I’ll remind you was in connection with our substantial increase in our ownership of AmRisc which is a really steady and promising fee income business.
Our fee income ratio was 42.1% versus 44.3% for the last third quarter.
Net interest margin did increased eight basis points to 3.35 primarily due to purchase accounting.
In the expense control area if you exclude the impact of acquisitions non-interest expenses are modestly lower for the quarter versus the second quarter.
I will point out though that the environment remains very challenging and we remain very tightly focused on expense control.
I am very pleased that we have the opportunity to rationalize the expense basis from the Bank of Kentucky and Susquehanna acquisition.
This is an important part of our expense strategy and gives us the real lever that would be available if we were not in the acquisition business.
In terms of the lending area just a couple of highlights and then I’ll give you a little bit more deep dive.
Loans and leases held for investment totaled $130.5 billion third quarter versus $120 billion into second and if you exclude acquisitions average loans grew 3.2% annualized versus second quarter or 6.7% excluding residential which is really kind of the run rate that you can – I want to think about because we are consciously running down our resi portfolio.
Organic loan growth was really kind of focused on the C&amp;I CRE Direct Retail Sheffield and Grandbridge.
So you can see it was very broad based.
We had three what I consider to be significant strategic developments during the course of the quarter.
We did successfully closed Susquehanna on August the 1st.
I would just tell you that the merger is going great.
We expect the conversion in November.
Rick and I have now visited all of the four regions that come through Susquehanna three in Pennsylvania and then our expanded Maryland branch.
The client reaction has been fantastic.
We often times get clients just really excited because a lot of these folks have winter homes in Florida and they really like being able to get in down and not having to change the banks and so that’s been a real positive hits for the clients.
So it’s been real real positive.
Associate engagement is superb.
They really like our culture and they embraced it really really quickly.
I will imagine Susquehanna had the best client service quality in their market and so it’s a really high quality plan and service quality for a company just like ours is.
I will just say overall this is just going to be a fantastic merger.
We did also announce agreement to acquire National Penn Bancshares.
Just as a reminder it’s $9.6 billion in assets $6.7 billion in deposits 124 branches.
It’s a really good institution.
It has deep relationships with its clients.
It also has very good client service quality very community-oriented.
If you combine these two together we will move up quickly to a number four market share in Pennsylvania which is a really big market to have a number four market share in a short period of time.
And not only the market share but we have excellent efficiencies coming out of the combination of these two institutions in that marketplace and more importantly we have outstanding market potential going forward.
So it’s a great place to be where you already have big market share with lot of efficiencies and you have huge opportunities in places like Philadelphia and really throughout the entire mid Pennsylvania area.
So we are really really excited about Pennsylvania.
It’s a good market it has got a lot of wealth and it offers us a huge amount of potential in all aspects but I would particularly call out insurance and wealth management.
And finally we are very excited about the fact we introduced U to the marketplace.
This is our new digital platform.
It is innovative.
We think it’s the best in the marketplace.
The two big cornerstones of U and we use that is the letter U to represent the fact that we are focusing on the client is that it is an integrated platform which allows the clients to bring together easily all the information in BB&amp;T and other information from other financial intermediaries and they can customize the offering on their device.
And they have single list of consistent information across all devices.
And so we would say it’s really uniquely different.
I’d recommend you try it.
It’s really good offering in the marketplace.
Now a little bit of a deeper dive into lending.
C&amp;I loan growth was strong in the quarter.
Average core C&amp;I loans were up $715 million which was 6.7% annualized.
This was led by large corporate lending but solid production in the branch network as well.
I will point out the C&amp;I lending still is significantly in larger participation and that market is still very competitive.
Spreads are very tight.
So we’re being cautious even though we are growing it.
We currently expect C&amp;I to grow in the fourth quarter but more modestly when you exclude acquisitions.
I just want to point out again that our oil and gas portfolio reserve base lending is small at $1.1 billion less than 1% of our outstandings.
It’s very conservative 90% upstream 10% mid to midstream practically no exposure in service and supply.
And I would just point out that we did review our portfolio in the last quarter and we currently have absolutely no non-accruals in this portfolio.
So it’s really really good portfolio.
We’ve been conservative.
We are been conservative and we feel good about it from a long-term point of view.
In CRE construction and development it includes $128 million or 18.4% annualized if you exclude acquisitions and the period was a little bit slower but organic growth has driven the single-family construction hospital projects.
So pretty diversified.
Our expectation now is that C&amp;D growth be a little seasonally softer in the fourth quarter which you would expect.
CRE income producing increased to $127 million or 4.7% annualized this quarter again if you exclude acquisitions.
In this portfolio growth was broad based and included increases in multi-family office hospitality industrial.
The fundamentals in all of those businesses in the marketplace continue to improve but I would tell you that the spreads in the marketplace continue to tighten.
I keep asking our lending folks when is it going to get better and they say well as of yesterday it hadn’t gotten better.
So it’s still a tough marketplace out there.
And again we are being careful because we don’t want assets that don’t produce good risk-adjusted returns on capital.
So we expect core C&amp;I IPP to slow and be about flat for the fourth quarter.
Direct Retail Lending is having a really good movement in our company today.
It’s performing very well.
Increased $253 million or on the 12% annualized.
Lot of growth in HELOCs home equity lines and direct auto lending in branches has got really strong momentum at this point.
Wealth continues to really move market share for us to make some major contribution hitting new records every month.
And the community bank is really growing this direct retail book.
So we have great momentum in the direct retail lending heading into fourth quarter and we currently expect the direct retail lending to continue to grow be a little bit of seasonal slowdown but still good growth in that market in the fourth quarter and if you exclude acquisitions and sales finance which is I’ll remind you largely prime auto lending for us it declined $278 million or 11.6% in the quarter for two reasons; one is we continue to be very careful in these tighter spread paper offerings with unacceptable terms that we are seeing that marketplace.
It’s just not – it just didn’t give you a decent risk-adjusted return on capital.
And so we are being very very careful on that and related to that is we did transition to a flat rate compensation model for our dealers.
We think this is a better program for our dealers long-term.
The overall feedback from our dealers is they like it.
There is little confusion because it’s new but the more time we have to get out and explain it to our dealers we think it will settle in to a very profitable level.
It maybe a lower volume level but it be a more profitable level which is what we are really focusing on.
So we would just say this area to see a similar decline in the fourth quarter.
In residential mortgages recall we allow in our portfolio to runoff so they were down $548 million or 7.3% linked-quarter annualized.
That includes the sale of all of – essentially all of our conforming production.
In terms of production originations in the quarter were $5 billion which was 8% lower than the second quarter and applications were down but higher than the third quarter of last year.
So it’s kind of stable in terms of applications and production today.
Gains on margins were about flat.
So looking forward in this business we expect contraction in the resi portfolio by design absent the impact of Susquehanna although it might be a little slower next quarter.
In the other lending subsidiaries good quarter.
We grew $609 million and 20.6% annualized.
As you know this is always a seasonally stronger quarter for us strong performance in Sheffield Grandbridge.
Our insurance premium finance businesses in AFCO / CAFO and Prime Rate Regional Acceptance had another very strong quarter.
Remember the fourth quarter is seasonally slower in these businesses and so we’d expect growth to be slower next quarter.
So to sum up in total we expect average loans held for investment to be essentially flat on a core basis excluding acquisitions given the seasonal decline that we always experienced in the quarter for us.
So there is nothing new about that if you - excluding mortgage less modest if you include.
Including all the deals obviously our growth rate will be significantly higher and annualized loan growth is expected to be in the low double-digits including acquisitions.
I will point out to you that while we try to when we can point out the difference between GAAP and adjusting for acquisitions the fact is we are acquiring assets that are income producing and takes a lot of work to – these loans on the books.
So from myself it is real growth and so we try to make sure you understand both that we are very excited about these new assets and think that be really productive for us as we go forward.
Taking a look at deposits on Slide 5 it’s just another really strong deposit performance quarter.
Non-interest bearing deposits or DDA was up 6.9% on a linked-quarter adjusted and so we feel really good about that.
Third to second annualized it’s actually 25%.
If you look at the total deposits on third quarter to second quarter 2015 that’s 3.6% and so the deposit portfolio is performing well.
Our costs are remaining low at 0.24% on the total deposits and excluding acquisitions our average non-interest bearing deposit mix was 31.7% in the third quarter versus 31.5% in the second quarter.
So modest improvement there but at a very very high level for us.
So let me turn it over to Daryl now for some more color in a lot of detail areas.
Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
Today I am going to talk to you about credit quality net interest margin fee income non-interest expense capital and our segment results.
Continuing on Slide 6.
As Kelly said we are very pleased to report a strong third quarter.
We met much of the guidance from last quarter and the closing of Susquehanna has gone very well.
Credit quality remains excellent; net charge-offs were 32 basis points down 1 basis point.
Excluding Regional Acceptance net charge-offs were only 15 basis points.
Loans past due 90 days or more were higher due to the acquisition.
Excluding Susquehanna loans 90 days past due decreased 10.5%.
Loans 30 to 89 days past due increased 9% due to the acquisition and seasonality.
Going forward we expect net charge-offs including Susquehanna to be between 35 and 45 basis points in the fourth quarter assuming no material decline in the economy.
NPAs increased 2.1% in total and 0.5% excluding Susquehanna.
Looking forward we continue to expect NPA levels to remain in a similar range.
Looking on Slide 7 our allowance coverage ratios remains strong at 3.44 times for net charge-offs and 2.49 times per NPLs.
The total allowance to loans ratio was 1.08 on a GAAP basis which includes $12.8 billion of acquired loans marked at 4.45% with no related allowance.
Excluding Susquehanna the allowance as a percentage of loans remained at 1.19%.
We recorded a provision of $103 million for the quarter compared to net charge-offs of $107 million.
Looking ahead we expect fourth quarter provision to be based on charge-offs and new loan growth in Susquehanna regions.
Continuing on Slide eight.
Net interest margin was 3.35% up 8 basis points on the impact of purchase accounting and better than our guidance.
Core margin was 3.15% down 1 basis points.
In the fourth quarter we expect GAAP and core margin to be relatively flat compared with third quarter assuming no Fed rate hikes.
We continue to be slightly more asset-sensitive this quarter mostly due to acquisitions that drove favorable changes in net free funds and deposit mix.
We will definitely benefit should the fed begin to raise interest rates.
Turning to Slide 9.
We experienced a seasonal decline in insurance and mortgage banking income offset by higher service charges on deposits and other income.
The fee income ratio declined to 42.1% reflecting that these declines and the impact of Susquehanna on our revenue mix.
Remember Susquehanna’s fee income ratio was only 20%.
A bit more on that detail.
First insurance income declined $68 million compared to the second quarter due to more seasonality and the sale of American Coastal.
Additionally the insurance market has experienced pricing softness which slowed our light quarter same-store sales growth to about 2%.
Second mortgage banking income decreased $19 million reflecting lower net mortgage servicing rates income and a decrease in commercial mortgage volume offset by an increase in residential income.
Third service charges on deposits increased $13 million driven by new accounts and increased activity.
And finally other income increased $27 million due to higher income on private equity investments of $22 million partially offset by $19 million of lower income related to assets for certain post-employment benefit expense and pre-tax loss in the second quarter due to the sale of American Coastal.
Looking on Slide 10 non-interest expenses totaled $1.6 billion in the third quarter.
Expenses excluding merger-related charges and last quarter’s loss on the early extinguishment of debt increased 4.2% including Susquehanna which is consistent with our guidance.
If you exclude the impact of Susquehanna on our total non-interest expenses we were down slightly.
So we are doing a good job of controlling core expenses.
The primary contributors to the change in non-interest expenses were personnel expense increased $18 million due to Susquehanna related personnel cost of $37 million offset by lower post-employment benefit expense of $19 million.
FTEs were up 2400 excluding acquisition FTEs remained almost flat.
Occupancy and equipment expense increased $17 million mostly due to acquisitions.
Merger-related and restructuring charges totaled $77 million.
Susquehanna and the Bank of Kentucky totaled $69 million and $5 million respectively.
Our effective tax rate was 29.4% and we expect the effective tax rate of about 30% in the fourth quarter.
We expect merger-related charges to again to be in the $60 million to $80 million range in the fourth quarter.
We remain confident in achieving our targeted cost savings from our announced acquisitions and we will improve our efficiency throughout 2016.
Turning to Slide 11.
Capital ratios remain very strong with Basel III common equity Tier 1 capital at 10.1%.
The acquisition of Susquehanna used 60 basis of common equity Tier 1 capital.
Fully phased-in common equity Tier-1 capital was 9.8% Looking at liquidity our LCR increased to 136% due to the Susquehanna acquisition causing a decrease in wholesale funding and increases in high quality securities.
Also our liquid asset buffer at the end of the quarter was strong at 13.3%.
If we begin to look at our segment results on Slide 12 please note that these results exclude Susquehanna.
Once we complete the system conversion in November we will incorporate these results.
Susquehanna results from the first two months show we are off to a good start and are exceeding expectations from an earnings perspective.
The community bank’s net income was up $30 million from last quarter driven by growth in commercial lending retail lending and deposits as well as higher funding spreads partially offset by lower rates on commercial production.
Loan production continues to be very good with total commercial loans up 13% and Direct Retail up almost 17% linked-quarter.
Turning to Slide 13.
Residential mortgage banking income totaled $60 million down $12 million from last quarter.
This was driven by a decrease in net MSR income and it’s partially offset by mortgage loan production.
Production mix in the quarter was two-thirds purchase one-third refi.
Turning to Slide 14.
Dealer financial services income totaled $43 million down $6 million from last quarter due to higher provision.
Asset quality indicators for dealer finance are performing very well.
Regional Acceptance continues to perform within our risk appetite.
Turning to slide 15.
Specialized lending net income totaled $62 million down $8 million from last quarter driven by lower commercial mortgage income and lower gains on finance leases.
Sheffield which finances equipment for consumers and small businesses experienced solid loan growth up 28.5% linked-quarter.
Credit metrics experienced some normal seasonality with charge-offs at 27 basis points.
Looking at Slide 16.
Insurance services net income totaled $21 million down $32 million from last quarter mostly driven by a seasonal decrease in commercial property and casualty insurance and lower insurance premiums due to the sale of American Coastal in the second quarter.
Like quarter same-store sales achieved 1.4% growth as the market for insurance pricing is softer.
Turning to Slide 17.
Financial services segment had $83 million in income up $15 million from last quarter.
Corporate banking generated significant loan growth of 26% and deposit growth of 32% wealth experienced 28% loan growth.
Non-interest income increased $15 million linked-quarter due to higher SBIC partnership income and investment advisory fees.
In summary we produced a strong quarter including very strong broad based loan growth revenue growth due to Susquehanna acquisition and excellent credit quality.
We look forward to executing opportunities with our merger partners in the coming quarters.
Now let me turn it back over to Kelly for closing remarks and Q&amp;A.
Thanks Daryl.
So again just to reinforce a couple of points it was a strong quarter higher revenues increased margin excellent asset quality strong capital and liquidity focused expense management three really important strategic developments.
Really great opportunities in several large markets particularly including Texas and Pennsylvania.
So I would say overall given that it is a challenging environment out there we remain very optimistic about our future at BB&amp;T.
Alan I will turn it back over to you for Q&amp;A.
Okay.
Thank you Kelly.
Eric at this time if you would come back on the line and explain how our listeners can participate in the Q&amp;A session? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we’ll go first to Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Hey Betsy.
Two questions one on the loan growth.
I realize there is a lot of puts and takes with the acquisition but it does seem relatively strong especially compared to what we are seeing from other institutions and what we are hearing about in the headlines with regard to investment activity.
So and I also realize that the third quarter is a seasonally strong quarter for the specialized lending group but could you just give us a sense as to whether or not you feel that this is a one-off or if the underlying demand for borrowing is actually stronger than what we are seeing from other folks because your region? Betsy I’ll give you a general comment then Clarke can add some color.
So clearly as you pointed out we did had seasonal positive impact in the third but remember that we do have these diversified businesses that are really helping us in terms of ongoing growth while they are seasonally stronger in the third they don’t go away completely into fourth.
So that’s just our ongoing strategic advantage we have.
We have lots of these new markets where we have tiny market shares.
So while the markets may not be growing very fast we are able to get some real tractions and turn some market share movement.
So the challenge for us is that there is a lot of opportunity for us because we are in a lot of new markets.
But we are very careful and conservative in terms of underwriting and pricing and so we could be growing a lot faster not because of markets growing that fast but because we have some tine market shares in these new markets.
But I don’t expect us to grow tremendously faster than we are growing now because we remain very disciplined but Clarke you may want to add more color to that? Yes I’d just echo what Kelly said a big driver of the third quarter always is the seasonality in our subsidiary businesses.
So I wouldn’t say that demand was materially higher it was just a typical seasonality we see on – particularly on the C&amp;I side.
I would just remind you Betsy that we are still relatively under penetrated in the larger middle market area in our corporate lending group.
And so again we are just moving up to our reasonable share of the market there.
So I think that necessarily new demand in the overall market is just our penetration there but I think one bright spot for the quarter that was unique is we had the strongest growth in C&amp;I and our community bank portfolio than we’ve seen in a long time.
So Ricky you might want to comment.
Yes thank you Clarke we did.
We had a very good quarter production linked-quarter was up in C&amp;I well it went almost 20% and that was really strong for us.
We had growth in C&amp;I for the quarter linked which was solid it bucked the trend of what we've been seeing because of this Main Street Wall Street kind of dilemma where Main Street has been very slow.
I don’t think it really sends a message that things are significantly different.
I think it just sends a message that we’ve been working really hard as Kelly said our opportunities in Texas and South Florida and Washington DC and Atlanta are all giving us good opportunities.
And in fact that’s where the most of our growth did occur in the larger regions in Texas and Florida and DC and Atlanta.
We continue to be in pretty good shape with our pipelines.
They are holding up fairly well.
Our CRE business had a good production quarter as well.
Growth was not quite as robust part of that was just we had some paydowns with some construction projects but good activity.
So we look at the third quarter of this year as one of our very very best quarters but I think it is not necessarily market it’s just the fact we’ve been working really really hard.
Okay some market share gain that’s really helpful.
The follow-up is a little bit of an unusual question but it has to do with U mobile app kind of that you mentioned you launched.
One of the questions I get from investors is how do you measure the ROIC on things like this and it feels like the mobile app that you have critical for gaining new customers in millennial et cetera.
I am just wondering how do you determine the value and how do you measure its success over time? Betsy this is Ricky.
Thank you for that question.
What we think is that this really has three prongs that we hope to be able to exploit.
First is that we think it can be a real driver for new household acquisition and particularly in the Millennial space it should really be attractive for Millennials and the early returns they really really like it.
Secondly we see this as a big opportunity to reduce attrition.
So if we can get our existing clients to put more of their financial lives on our application integrate with more products we get them to be stickier and attrition goes down.
And then thirdly we hope to be able to launch more cross-sell activities because they are going to be able to see things more clearly be able to use their products more effectively and the good news about this platform as Kelly said is it’s integrated it’s not built at a private that has an in lock that it will iterate over time or be able to add new products to it.
Clients will be able to choose what they want they’ll be customizing the look that they want for themselves.
So we think it’s pretty pretty unique and we feel really really good about it.
We are about one month into all regions having access to the product in terms of clients.
All of our new clients that we are signing up for our online services are going through our U platform.
We are beginning the process of converting existing clients through an up-sale and or a request process.
So far we’ve got approximately 70 000 users on the platform and that’s only in about a three or four week timeframe.
So we think it’s really being adopted very well and the response to the application has been exceptional that’s what we are getting from our people in the field that what our people are driving this program getting feedback is it’s been very very good.
As we said it iterates and we hope that through our next release we will be able to have the ability for folks to have stock reports on their application.
They will be able to get weather and news and we also are very hopeful that we’ll have a FICO score that would be refreshed every quarter for our clients to be able to see.
So that we think that’s the important for them to understand credit and financial literacy and that’s a way we can help do that.
So we are very excited about the platform and we hope we will continue to get good growth.
And Betsy one final point.
With regard to the analytical part of your question on the ROIC as you alluded to it is really hard to measure the specific ROIC on any individual products particularly in the case of the SORC platform because what will happen here is to return on capital will bleed over into all of the areas.
So your deposit profitability will go up because you have higher acquisition and lower attrition and so forth.
So it’s practically impossible to measure it but I would point out that on a product like this because in terms of putting it up it’s actually a very people-sensitive strategy.
It didn’t take a huge amount of actual capital in terms of equipment et cetera to put it out.
So it’s not a huge investment of capital.
I am quite confident long-term to implicit total return is outstanding but I’d be really really be hard pressed to try to prove it exactly.
Okay now that’s helpful and the point about attrition is importance of being a first mover is critical in the space.
So I appreciate them.
Right.
Thank you.
The next question is from John Pancari of Evercore ISI.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Wanted to see if you go – on the loan growth front I appreciate the color you gave on the seasonality and then the outlook for next quarter.
But I wanted to see if we can get a little bit more color on – into the 2016 outlook.
Kelly I think you had indicated that that 3% annualized level that we saw this quarter maybe a fair way to think about it.
So is that how we should be thinking about 16 that it could be at the lower end of that 3% to 5% range? Hey John this is Daryl.
We are right in the midst of our planning period right now and we typically update everybody on 2016 what’s going to happen in our January earnings call.
So we are kind of lay low on any 2016 guidance right now.
Okay and I guess then if we could kind of talk a little bit more about the components.
If you can give a little bit more detail on your strategy around mortgage I know you have indicated that you are pairing that back and letting some of that run-off what is the strategy there as we move through the next couple of quarters and the rationale behind it.
Is it more at a rate-sensitivity? John this is Clarke and Daryl could kick in on the rate-sensitivity I think for us.
We just think those were very low margin assets for us with long duration and so we are – we would prefer to focus on being an originator and creating in the mortgage making income and just not use our balance sheet so extensively there.
So we are very focused on volumes and originations but it’s more in a form of producing the fee income.
Yes John this is Daryl.
If you look at the credit spread that we make on mortgages if we put it on balance sheet because of the long tale in a negative convexity that mortgages have – you are less than a 100 basis points about 85 basis point credit spread.
So it’s really hard to get any good long predictable returns in that business and we’ve been doing this strategy now for several quarters and what we are seeing in our balance sheet is that we are basically originating less fixed rate and more floating rate which is what you would say more about 50-50 mix now.
So it’s been significant move on our sensitivity to a little bit asset-sensitive less tail risks but we really are capturing all the revenue and volume because we are originating everything we can do on our markets which is choose to securitize and all the conforming products.
So it’s not going on balance sheet.
And then finally John I would just point out that we and I suspect everybody today are looking much more carefully at the components of our balance sheet in terms of risk-adjusted returns.
Remember that there’s been a dramatic increase in capital and liquidity in the banking business today certainly true for us.
We believe that’s going to remain to be true and so historically you kind of look to the bank and have strong loan growth kind of feels good about that.
It’s not quite that clear today.
Strong loan growth does not inherently means improvement in shareholder returns and so if you can grow loans that have good asset quality and have really good returns relative to the rates you can get that’s a good deal but if you originate narrow spread loans that have a low return on equity you either need to build originating sale or you shouldn’t be in that business.
So you will see us like in dealer finance and in mortgage today you’ve seen us tweaking our strategies and you may see more of that as we go forward.
Okay that's helpful Kelly.
That leads me to my very last thing for you is that you kind of alluded to that same theme on C&amp;I to a degree you indicated that you are seeing spreads continue to tighten.
Is there a bit more cautiousness that you are dialing into your C&amp;I production as well? Yes absolutely.
I mean that market I keep waiting for it to turn because as I just alluded to everybody has got some capital out there and so at some point the industry really had to turn on this but it hasn’t turned yet and so this – I think what’s happening John is that everybody is struggling with the fact that the economy is growing slowly expenses are going up and you naturally think that growing loans is the way out of that trap But we’ve kind of concluded that that growing loans just by growing loans is not a good strategy and so yes we will be very careful in that marketplace and based on today’s pricing you would not expect to see that grow at a very fast pace.
Okay thanks Kelly.
Yes.
The next question is from Gerard Cassidy with RBC Capital Markets.
Thank you.
Hi Darryl hi Kelly.
Hey Gerard how are you doing? Good.
Kelly can you give us some thoughts on acquisitions? I think in your prepared remarks you used the expression you are in the acquisition business and you have already come out and said that your deals are currently underway will prevent you or you have chosen not to do any more deals until possibly late next year or 2017.
Can you give us some thoughts on when a large deal could be considered and what the ramifications would be going over $250 billion in assets in the change in the regulatory complexity for your organization? Yes Gerard what we said is that we are really happy about the deals that we have underway.
But because for us our M&amp;A has a very long-term strategy it’s been very successful for us.
It has been very successful for us because we measure our sales and we do what we do well.
And so after we announced National Penn we simply say we are going to take a pause and we are going to make sure we do everything while having to reservation about that except this being sure that we stay focused and so we are tightly focused on executing on these now and as I said they are going very very well.
Long-term our acquisition strategy has not changed.
We think we still like to grow 5% to 10% of our assets in new deals each year but I think sometimes when we are talking about this people expect that will turn into a lot of – so that’s like $10 billion to $20 billion so you might see us do more than $10 billion in assets in a particular year which is pretty immaterial.
To be honest Gerard I don’t think there is much activity and large deals today depending on how you define large.
Our focus is in that ideally in the $10 billion to $25 billion range.
So if you think in large it’s above that.
We are not in that game today.
So I think there has been a lot of talk historically about that but as far as I can see today BB&amp;T doing anything larger than 25 is virtually unlikely.
Therefore with regard to the $250 billion level we could do another one or two smaller ones over the next couple of years and still not be over depending on how organic growth is going.
You say that we are measuring our organic growth so as we are able to see acquisition opportunities at reasonable prices we can tailor back more organic growth keep our balance sheet under $250 billion and improve our overall return on capital pretty dramatically.
Nonetheless from a long-term point of view I fully expect us to go past $250 billion but as I said at one point you wouldn’t expect us to be at $249 billion and do a $2 billion to go to $251 billion.
I don’t think that would be very rational.
And so as we approach that $250 billion level we will just have to be pretty clear that we’ve got lined up opportunities that will get us pretty meaningfully over that in the not too distant future.
So Gerard if the $250 billion is not as big a deal as lot of people think it is it does have OCI implication it does have some advanced approaches implications.
But other than that we are already being regulated that if we were over $250 billion.
So it’s under the guides of our good practices and so we are making all the efforts to methodically move to be prepared from a regulatory perspective to go past $250 billion.
We are not in a rush to do it.
We are tightly focused right now Gerard on shareholder returns.
And so I wouldn’t be surprised to see us being little slower in acquisitions than people expect because we did a lot.
We did over $30 billion in the last year and that’s a lot and particularly in a slow growth environment we are really so tightly focused on returns and let the shareholders benefit from what we‘ve done already.
Thank you.
And then as a follow-up question staying on this theme of acquisitions with the announcement of the new digital channel U how do you think that's going to factor into your guys thinking on a go-forward basis of branches of potential targets if U turns out to be as good as Ricky just described will branches be as important to you on a go-forward basis and acquisitions as maybe three four five years ago? Gerard this is Ricky.
Thank you for the question.
We see branches continuing to be a very important part of our delivery channels to our clients.
Still from data we can see clients do want to have a branch.
They see that as the real tangible evidence of their money and they like to be able to get to it if they got a problem they will be able to walk in and see somebody face to face and clients still see I think financial institutions as a people business.
And yes we are getting more mobile and more digital when things like U and other types of digital offerings are there.
But we still see branches important.
We will be very judicious in terms of expansion of branches and I think we got to be very careful about acquisitions to ensure that what we do acquire would fit in the distribution system that makes sense and over the long haul we will clearly try to rationalize the number of branches that we’ve got.
We’ve been doing that year after year after year.
We will be doing that with National Penn and Susquehanna.
We have already announced that we were closing 22.
We think there is some more that we will be evaluating when they will happen.
But clearly rationalization of your branching network is the direction that we are going to continue to go in.
We think that with the advent of digital and things like U that we’ll be able to go into markets where we’ve gotten great distribution great coverage great brand and perhaps be able to take branches out that you wouldn’t ordinarily think that you would be able to take out because you can absorb them into your digital space into your overall branch distribution.
We are doing a few experiments on that as we speak so far successfully.
We think there are other opportunities.
So we think that long-term branches play a big part.
We think that you got to do things like U.
You got to have a good ATM system.
You got to have a good call center system.
You got to have 24/7 access that’s absolutely consistent with our point of client experience.
But long-term you got to figure out how to have the interplay between all of these channels so the client gets the access to BB&amp;T but clearly our most expensive channel is the branch.
We will be rationalizing over time and we will be building smaller branches when we do build them reducing cost in that network is important.
So just a final overall conceptual perspective with regard to M&amp;A and this issue historically you thought about M&amp;A as you are acquiring loans and deposits and a bunch of branches and that’s why some people asking today why would you do it because you have all those branches and branches are going away that’s not really looking into the essence of what you really do when you are acquiring it.
You’ve gotten this issue you are acquiring relationships with clients which has created these relationships of the associates and the clients.
So we go in and we do rationalize the loan structure.
We do go in and rationalize the deposit structure but now you do go in and rationalize the branch structure.
But just because you go in and close branches if you are – for example it’s more effective which we think it will be you go in and close more branches that’s just one more really good opportunity to reduce the expenses.
Eliminating a branch doesn’t mean you eliminate the client.
In fact by having a really well developed integrated platform like U it gives you more opportunities Rick alluded to to be a little more aggressive on the branch side.
So it’s not a negative it’s just a more of a positive than it has been in the past.
Thank you.
We will go next to Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets Yes a follow-up on Gerard's question on acquisitions what about - like you guys have been active in the insurance space and leasing space and what not.
Could we see some small fill-in acquisitions over the next year? Yes Paul this is Chris Henson.
We definitely could I think specifically on the areas of Texas and Pennsylvania we will need to build up those markets.
And that’s why I think you had the key I think likely to be small fill-in where we don’t represent the branching network currently.
We really don’t have to have anything else with respect to products.
We have all the product coverage so it be small fill-in.
And then on the mortgage question I thought you guys did a pretty good job talking about why you don't want conforming stuff but you are seeing a move in some institutions especially to drive some private wealth is the booking jumbo loans.
Have you even thought about - or are you doing it on the jumbo side putting those on your balance sheet? Paul this is Clarke.
Absolutely as Chris mentioned in some his comments we had a really strong growth rate in our merging wealth model and a big part of that is home mortgage finance and so we are very active on jumbos and construction and perm loans for those clients and we do a whole those on the balance sheet and feel really good about that.
So I think you would see that as a growth area and it’s a focal point for us in the future.
We even have a specific program that’s really more sort of a white – approach to the wealth side as you mentioned.
And did you guys disclose what - how much jumbos you do out of the $5 billion that you did this quarter? We didn’t cover that Paul we can get it for you real quickly.
You can just follow – I mean just follow-up later on that's okay.
Follow-up – call Alan or Tamera.
They will get you that number.
Okay.
One of the other benefits Paul is jumbos tend to be more shorter duration.
You basically don’t stay in the houses as long so it’s a shorter asset for our balance sheet as well.
Yes okay.
Hey guys thank you very much.
The next question is from Michael Rose with Raymond James.
Hey good morning guys.
How are you? Great good morning.
Hey Kelly just wanted to maybe get a sense for your outlook for the insurance business.
We are running mid-teens in terms of percentage of revenue.
Where can we expect that to shake out over the next couple of years and obviously you've done some stuff there.
Just wanted to get your general outlook for insurance? So we said Michael that clearly insurance is our best and most significant non-spread business.
Last quarter it was about 18% of revenue.
To be honest some people want us to grow really really fast and we could be growing much faster.
But the overarching strategy for us is diversification.
So it’s good as insurance is we are not going to grow it so fast as a percentage of our business because there could be scenario where insurance gets really bad.
In fact it’s not as good today as it was ten years ago at certain points because of little bit softer market and we think that will be changing going forward.
So actually as we do things like Susquehanna and all those where we build a revenue stream we can grow insurance faster.
So we wouldn’t want to think about insurance as revenue getting materially over say 20% of revenues and – but what we think will happen is the rest of the bank will grow and we will be able to grow insurance and hang around in that 15% to 20%.
Every time we do another deal there is likely a person here another bank deal he can go do more insurance sales and so it’s a really good long-term strategy but we are not going to grow it so fast and it get downsize relative to our diversification strategy.
Okay that's helpful and then as my follow-up just going back to energy I know it's a small piece of the portfolio and you mentioned there is no non-accruals this quarter but did you have any negative migration and then do you have any second-lien exposure and if you do can you quantify? Thanks.
Mike this is Clarke.
We don’t have any second-lien exposure.
And as Kelly said the vast majority of what we have is senior secured reserve based credits.
Very modest midstream and almost no oilfield services which is the policy exception for us.
So what we did do in both the first quarter and now in the third quarter we actually did a very comprehensive stress test and looked at significant stress and prices well below where they are today.
We looked at the results from the SNIK exam and the agent re-determination process and we re-graded the entire portfolio again in the third quarter.
We did see a few credits go over the lots list based on that very conservative process but again to Kelly’s point no non-accruals at all.
We feel really good about where we are and all of that’s baked in to our allocated reserves and our allowance.
Great I appreciate the color.
Thanks for taking my questions.
No problem.
Thanks.
The next question is from Dan Werner with Morningstar.
Good morning.
Could you provide some color on the percentage of cost saves that you have realized so far in the Bank of Kentucky and Susquehanna acquisitions and how we should think about that going into 2016? Yes so for Bank of Kentucky we closed on that transaction in June and integration happened the same time that we closed and for the most part all the cost have been taken out and we are pretty much what we thought we would be from that.
That’s pretty small a transaction.
As far as Susquehanna goes there are some cost cuts that have come out but for the most part you won’t see big drops in their expense base until you get into the first quarter.
Remember that the conversion is in November.
You have to give a 60-day notice period whenever you are going to have ref individuals.
So you basically won’t get big drops in FTEs until you start to see first quarter and then by second quarter of 2016 we will probably fully effected phased into 2016.
So that’s when you will start to see the efficiency ratio possibly impacted by those cost cuts.
Okay thanks.
And then as a follow-up I know you discussed some of the opportunities with insurance.
Could you discuss the opportunity relative to the National Penn acquisition? Yes I think we picked up a small agency with both Susquehanna and National Penn which is unusual.
We typically don’t get those.
So we have a real good opportunity to build around and National Penn provides us a real opportunity we think to build out of Philadelphia which would be really key to supplement our C&amp;I business.
So I think it clearly has opportunity and we’ve already had some lines in the water but it takes time to sort of work through those opportunities.
Okay thank you.
The next question is from Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
Good morning.
Another question on insurance Kelly I mean you referenced the pricing softness in the market right now several times.
Can you just give us some color on that and whether you expect that this is going to persist into the fourth quarter which is a seasonally strong insurance quarter for you? Nancy this is Chris.
In the US market it is generally down about 1%.
We are little heavier in property especially with AmRisc which is CAT property.
So we probably are filling it a little more along the lines of say 2% to 3%.
On the other hand the way to outrun that is do new business production.
So our new business on average is up in the – call it 8% to 10% range.
So we actually as Daryl commented are growing on a same-store sales basis about 2% and in the fourth quarter it will persist but with the new business production and the bounce back of the seasonality we’ll expect fourth quarter to pop back up 10% to 12% range over the third quarter.
So we will recover the seasonality and hopefully outrun the price challenges through new production.
But you see the pricing environment persisting for sometime at this point? I think so.
I mean we saw in 2012 and 2013 price improvements of about 4% that built 1% to 2% last year and we are kind of that in that flat to down 1% nationally.
Property seems to be catching little bit more brown over at the moment.
So I think it could continue through next year.
But we have in our business a couple organic opportunities that are unique in the sense of Trump Life where we actually are building a cross-sell life insurance within all the points within the bank well P&amp;C insurance C&amp;I businesses.
So we have really a model with a focused effort as well as through the branches.
And then we have a state-of-the-art EV platform we bought a company called Preset bank in 2012.
We build what we think is state-of-the-art platform nationally and that really got up and running mid last year and we had really good momentum.
So those two areas provide us a bit of a offset to the pricing as well.
But Nancy one other thing to think about and I am sure you know this but with regard to the insurance companies which of course drives the pricing they are very competitive like banks are in terms of pricing and all but in my view when this thing pivots this is going to pivot sharply for two reasons one is these companies have been accreting capital but they’ve also been having reductions in yields on securities.
And so they are very yield-dependent on securities and so they have second win on their securities portfolio and so pretty soon they will be pressured to get their rates up to get some decent turn on capital.
And then the other thing is they are doing what I call the insurance version of reserve releasing and they have not had any losses for a long time and so they are having reasonably good profitability because of the no losses.
So you combine the fact that insurance the yields on the securities are going down and then any kind of losses flowing because of catastrophes you are going to see them jack rates up really fast.
So what we are trying to do and Chris is doing a great job of is basically building that annuity and so we are really good at acquiring and retaining.
We have one of the best native retention ratios in the business today.
So actually it didn’t hit us much in the short-term.
Our long-term point of view this is a good scenario for us because rates are down demand gets really elastic.
We are able to go out and acquire more because people are more willing to compare their services and then we are really going to keep them.
So when it does pivot you are going to see BB&amp;T be in a really good place.
And Nancy a point I would make is what really drives pricing is catastrophe in the market and what we just experienced while – it’s been terrible for many people in the south it will begin to turn the market.
So it was directly related to what type of weather events we have in catastrophe events we have in the country.
But I do think we have some organic engines some opportunity to actually outpace and if it’s down nationally 1% today we are growing 2% we are outpacing the industry by about 3%.
And we think potentially as we get these organic kind of run up we got actually some upside.
And if I may just ask a quick follow-up on credit quality Kelly before the quarter there were some speculation in the press that this is going to be the inflection quarter in credit quality that banks would have to begin to build reserves et cetera and we really haven’t seen that in any great way.
Could you just pine on your opinion on credit quality right now and when you see the turn coming? Nancy I think the – I think we have seen the bottom with regard to credit quality.
We are at the bottom while some may or may not started building yet - I think in the next quarter or so you will see that because I think the building actually occurs as a function of when you think you are at the bottom and where they are in terms of asset ratios.
But we are at the bottom you see a little bouncing around probably in my view over the next few quarters.
I don’t expect quality to deteriorate substantially over the next several quarters.
But just the mathematics is that with the bottoming people are going to have to transition from releasing to building for growth.
I don’t think you’ll have to see a lot of building for deterioration in credit quality for the next several quarters but you will have to be because of growth.
Do you guys Kelly see any particular importance at the 1% ratio? I mean you are slightly above that now adjusted but I mean is there sort of a sacred do not break 1% that’s out there with the regulators or with your own thinking? Well over my career Nancy there was this classical sacred 1%.
Of course as you know now we can’t go into any type of order in the pre-determined idea.
So we know I have no pre-determined idea of about 1% just for the record.
But it is a very mathematically driven analysis very very thorough – that drives every quarter.
It is a practical matter whether you call it 1% or whether you call it around that area.
I think you kind of can think about a floor there in my personal opinion.
Clarke would you agree with that? I agree with that.
All right thank you.
Thanks.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Greer I’d like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay thank you Eric and thanks to everyone for joining us this morning.
This concludes our call.
We hope you have a great day.
This does conclude today’s call.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the BB&amp;T Corporation Fourth Quarter 2015 earnings conference.
Currently all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
As a reminder this event is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Alan Greer of Investor Relations for BB&amp;T Corporation.
Thank you Robert and good morning everyone.
Thanks to all of our listeners for joining us today.
We have with us Kelly King our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Daryl Bible our Chief Financial Officer who will review the results for the fourth quarter.
We also have other members of our executive management team who are with us to participate in the Q&amp;A session.
Chris Henson our Chief Operating Officer; Clarke Starnes our Chief Risk Officer; and Ricky Brown our Community Banking President.
We will be referencing a slide presentation during our comments.
A copy of the presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental financial information are available on the BB&amp;T website.
Before we begin let me remind you that BB&amp;T does not provide public earnings predictions or forecasts.
However there may be statements made during the course of this call that express management's intentions beliefs or expectations.
BB&amp;T's actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the forward-looking statements in our presentation and our SEC filings.
In addition please note that our presentation includes certain non-GAAP disclosures.
Please refer to page 2 in the appendix of our presentation for the appropriate reconciliations to GAAP.
And now I'll turn it over to Kelly.
Thanks Alan.
Good morning everybody and thanks for your interest in BB&amp;T and as always thanks for joining our call.
So I think the fourth quarter overall for us was a very solid quarter particularly given the challenging environment we have out there that [indiscernible] organic performance and really was a great year from a strategic point of view.
So our core loan and deposit growth numbers are bit better than we expected GAAP growth numbers included the impact of the acquisition as you all know.
We grew revenues and held the net interest margin stable which was a very comforting trend.
Also we have a very strong level of capital and liquidity.
And so overall we continue to be a very strong company.
If you focus on the quarter in terms of earnings we made $502 million or diluted EPS of $0.64 which was flat with last quarter and we did have $50 million in pretax merger-related restructuring charges.
So if you ex that we had what I call operating or core earnings of $0.68 per share excluding merger charges.
If you look at GAAP ROA it was 1.03% return on tangible common was 13.37% but if you adjust for the merger and restructuring charges ROA was 1.09% and return on tangible was 14.19%.
Revenue totaled $2.6 billion up $164 million versus the fourth quarter.
That was primarily due to Susquehanna and revenue was annualized 10.8% compared to the third.
So we did have strong revenue growth.
Now that did include acquisition but that's part of our business.
So that's real revenue increase.
For full year we totaled $9.8 billion including acquisitions was up 4.1% and we did have record fee income for the year.
Our net interest margin as I indicated was stable at 3.35% which is an important consideration.
Efficiency did improve to 58.8% as we achieved positive operating leverage.
I would point out to you that we are really focused on expense management.
We're working through the Susquehanna and we'll be working through the National Penn conversions which really gives us an excellent opportunity to become more efficient which we're absolutely committed to do.
Average loans and leases held for investment totaled at $134.8 billion fourth quarter versus $130.5 billion in the third quarter.
Excluding acquisitions our average loans are a little better than we expected growing approximately 2% annualized versus the third.
Now if you take out residential mortgage which you'll recall we are intentionally running down and continue to do that it's up 4.5%.
So pretty good loan growth quarter.
Organic growth was very strong in C&amp;I direct retail and equipment finance.
From a strategic point of view we're very happy that we did receive formal approval from all of regulators on National Penn and now expect to move that closing up to April 1 and we still plan to do the conversion about mid-July and so the cost saves from National Penn will still be back second half loaded because you don't really get the cost saves until the conversion.
You could argue why we do merger conversion but if you know we've done a lot of mergers for a long time and it's best to take your time and do it right rather than get in a hurry and do it wrong.
So we'll get the savings by the end of the year but it will take our time doing it.
Susquehanna's going great.
We did that conversion in mid-November.
I will point out this is the largest conversion ever based on loan and deposit accounts.
So we had 144 000 loan accounts 790 000 deposit accounts so it was a big deal.
It's going extraordinary well.
All the regions are running really really smoothly and an early look by Ricky and his people at the combination of National Penn and Susquehanna looks really great.
I mean it's frankly better than we anticipated when we announced the combination.
So if you're following along on the slide if you look at Slide 5 I'll give you a little more detail with regard to our loan growth which as I said was 4.5% ex-acquisitions and ex-residential mortgage.
C&amp;I loan growth was strong estimated core C&amp;I loan growth was up $848 million or 7.8% annualized.
That was largely layered by corporate lending and production in the branch network.
C&amp;I lending was mostly in large participations as it was in previous quarters so it's very competitive spreads are tight but the spreads are flattening out.
So that's a good sign.
End of period balances increased $335 million again led by large corporate.
So right now looking forward for the next quarter we expect C&amp;I to continue to grow.
It could be a little slower depending on strengthened manufacture.
I want to particularly point out to you that our oil and gas portfolio is not large for our company.
It's $1.4 billion outstanding which is about 1% of our portfolio.
It's very conservative portfolio 67% is upstream 30% is midstream and we only have about 3% in support services.
At the end of the fourth quarter we had no delinquencies no losses and we have no energy loans or non-accrual.
So I know there's been a lot written and talked about energy but energy is just not a negative story for us.
It's a good solid story.
And we don't anticipate any major problems in that area.
Obviously if oil goes to extreme lows we'll have some challenges but because of the absolute size of this business is small we just do not anticipate that to be a big issue for BB&amp;T.
End of day we still have an area with a very strong quarter up $108 million about 40% annualized.
That's really being driven by new markets that we're adding some new lines we're offering and we expect it to continue to grow although probably not at quite that pace.
In CRE construction and development we increased 1.6% annualized in the quarter.
Excluding acquisitions end of period balances did decline a bit.
We expect C&amp;D growth to become seasonally soft until the spring.
CRE income producing increased 2.5% annualized excluding acquisitions.
That was mostly broad-based office hospitality industrial.
The market fundamentals in those spaces continues to improve although spreads continue to tighten.
And so looking at next quarter we expect core IPP to slow and to really be about flat mostly because of the competitive pricing and we're just not -- we'll just not try to book loan just to -- book loan into prices that's not acceptable we just rather not have them.
Average direct retail lending is a really good story for us increasing $237 million almost 11% annualized due to our HELOC portfolio direct lending auto lending in the branches.
Our wealth division is doing great producing about 30% of our retail volume.
It's just a really good story.
We have really good momentum heading into the first quarter.
Might be a little bit slow just because it's seasonal but underlying strategic direction in that portfolio has strong momentum as we look forward.
And if you look at sales finance on the other hand it did decline $406 million or 17.5%.
That was very consistent with our strategies.
We simply are unwilling to participate in the tighter spread market that exists in that space.
With increased capital that is required today just simply does not make sense to book loans where there's not a reasonable risk adjusted return on capital.
So we've been very careful and judicious in looking at the kind of assets we're willing to book and right now sales finance is just not a particularly profitable area.
That doesn't mean we're getting out of the business.
We are restructuring the business however you heard us say it recently.
We've now implemented a flat rate compensation program for our dealers and we're watching the spreads carefully.
I would point out that we did pick up a portfolio called the Hahn Auto Leasing business from Susquehanna which we are exiting as we don't choose to do auto leasing.
And so that will be winding down.
That will be a little bit of a negative impact but it won't affect our fundamental strategies.
Average residential mortgage that like you've been hearing from everybody was down 5.9% linked quarter annualized.
We are selling all of our conforming production and originations were 30% lower than the third quarter of course that was largely seasonal.
So we expect to see applications continuing to be soft as we head through the winter months.
Gain on sales was down about 5%.
Our correspondent channel lately shifted to 55%.
So there's lot of moving parts in the mortgage business today.
The whole [indiscernible] disclosure program is definitely slowing down production and booking of transactions.
It's hard to know what the underlying issues are in terms of consumer preferences in terms of millennials et cetera choosing to own homes or not.
Personally I think it's a little bit early to call all of that.
What we do know right now though is that mortgage production is down and part of that is substantially because of the mortgage disclosures that takes just a long long time.
I would point out on a very positive note that overall the community bank loan production is really accelerating it's the best it's been in years.
Our commercial production's up 16.7% retail's up 44% compared to the last fourth quarter and that momentum will continue as we head into the first and second quarters.
Other lending subsidiaries grew $227 million or 7.3%.
That's a good number.
It's actually a little seasonally weaker though because of seasonality [indiscernible].
Strongest ones in this area was Grandbridge equipment finance and Regional Acceptance.
With respect to the first quarter again seasonally slower but good in terms of the long-term strategies in those portfolios.
So to sum up we expect average loans held for investment to be up modestly about 1% in the first quarter with continued pressure given seasonality in our seasonal portfolios.
Just a comment with regard to the overall economy because that obviously impacts the loan production.
There's been a lot written and said over the last few weeks about the issues in the stock market.
We believe there's a lot of overreaction going on.
It's like you woke up January 2nd all of a sudden everybody decided the world's falling apart and we reject that.
We don't see any fundamental structural changes between the first part of December and the first part of January.
The world just doesn't happen that fast.
Obviously a huge confluence of negative psychology going on but we're trying to look past that.
So what we focus on is the fact that yes oil is down and that is a factor in terms of the oil space but oil is overall really stimulative.
It's stimulative to consumers.
It's stimulative to businesses.
It's stimulative to airlines.
Oil is stimulative.
The strong dollar has other implications but in terms of consumer purchases it's stimulative because obviously imports are a lot cheaper.
And so what we would say is that it's not a bullish environment it's no different from what we talked about the last two three quarters.
The economy's growing at 2% 2.25% kind of growth rate which is not great but it's not falling.
I would say for all of those pundits that are saying the sky is falling we would respectfully disagree with that.
So if you look at our Slide 6 just a comment or two on deposits continues to be a good story for us.
Our non-interest deposits increased $1.7 billion or 15% annualized.
That doesn't include acquisitions.
If you take out acquisitions total deposits were about flat by design but non-interest bearing deposits grew 7.5% which was very good.
So we're doing a really good job in improving our mix and reducing our cost.
Ex Susquehanna our non-interest bearing deposit.
Costs remain low at 24 basis points.
I will point now on a very bright note that we introduced in the fourth quarter our new U digital mobile online platform.
It is doing extraordinarily well.
We now have over 650 000 users and it is gaining momentum as we go forward.
We believe it is the best integrated platform in the business today and is certainly a big driver of our new account production today.
So overall we feel really great about our deposit performance.
We feel really good about our digital strategy and while there's plenty to do we believe we will stand out as a real positive performer in the whole digital space as we go forward.
So now with that I'll ask Daryl to give you some more detail and then I'll summarize after that.
Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
Today I'm going to talk about credit quality net interest margin fee income non-interest expense capital and our segment results.
Turning to Slide 7.
Our credit quality remains very strong.
Loans 90 days or more past due declined $69 million mostly driven by loans acquired from the FDIC and impaired loans.
Loans 30 to 89 past due increased 13% mostly because we conformed Susquehanna's delinquencies to our more conservative methodology.
We also had some seasonal growth which is typical for the fourth quarter.
NPAs declined 4.3% mostly because of the sale of non-performing residential mortgage loans.
This was offset by a more conservative approach for determining non-accrual status for mortgage loans in HELOCs.
Excluding the loan sale NPAs were essentially flat compared to last quarter.
Net charge-offs increased slightly to 38 basis points in the quarter led by higher charge-offs at regional acceptance.
The increase at regional was due to seasonality declining small car values and regional's Texas exposure.
Regional accounted for about half of the total charge-offs.
Overall we are very pleased with credit quality.
Looking forward we expect NPAs to remain in a similar range in the first quarter next year.
We expect charge-offs to be in the range of 35 basis points to 45 basis points.
Continuing on Slide 8.
Our allowance coverage ratios remain strong at 2.83 times for charge-offs and 2.53 times for NPLs.
The allowance to loan ratios was 1.07% compared to 1.08% last quarter.
Remember all of our acquired loans have a combined mark of about $750 million from all of our acquisitions.
So the effective allowance coverage is significantly higher.
We recorded a provision of $129 million for the quarter compared to net charge-offs of $130 million.
As Kelly mentioned earlier we have a very clean and conservative energy portfolio that's about 1% of our loan portfolio or $1.4 billion.
The allowance coverage for these loans is approximately 5% given the stress in the sector.
Turning to Slide 9.
Net interest margin was 3.35% flat compared to third quarter and in line with our guidance.
Core margin was 3.12% down 3 basis points.
Both GAAP and core margin were impacted by larger balances at the Fed for the majority of the quarter and lower loan yields.
We expect GAAP and core margin to increase modestly in the first quarter due to higher rates on earning assets driven by recent rate increase lower Fed balances and the ability to lag deposit rates.
We became slightly less asset sensitive this quarter mostly due to investment and funding mix changes.
As you can see we will continue to benefit from additional rate hikes.
Continuing on Slide 10.
Fee income for the year was a new record.
Our fee income ratio was 41.8% for the quarter.
Looking at a few components of fee income.
Insurance income increased $26 million for 29% annualized mostly due to seasonal factors.
Investment banking and brokerage experienced a decline of $14 million mostly due to higher capital markets activity last quarter.
Mortgage banking income decreased $7 million mostly due to lower gain on sale of loans and lower saleable production offset by better commercial mortgage income.
Other income increased $15 million due to $25 million higher income related to assets of certain post employment benefits and $12 million in the client derivative income offset by a $20 million decrease in partnership and other investment income.
Non-interest income should increase modestly next quarter.
This will be led by stronger insurance and investment banking revenues with lower mortgage and service charge income.
Turning to Slide 11.
Non-interest expenses totaled $1.6 billion essentially flat from last quarter.
Personnel expense increased $11 million driven by higher salary expenses from Susquehanna.
In addition we had some offsetting expenses with higher post employment benefit expense and lower medical and retirement cost.
Average FTEs were up just a bit over 1 000 due to Susquehanna.
Excluding acquisitions FTEs remained flat.
Occupancy and equipment expense increased $9 million mostly due to acquisitions.
Merger related and restructuring charges totaled $50 million.
We do not expect a material amount of merger related costs next quarter.
Our effective tax rate was 31.7% and we expect a similar rate next quarter.
Non-interest expense should be flat on a GAAP basis next quarter as we lower our merger related charges will be offset by seasonally higher FICA and employee.
We are confident we will achieve the cost saves from our acquisitions.
We also expect to improve of efficiency throughout 2016 with fourth quarter efficiency ratio around 56% to 57%.
Turning to Slide 12.
Capital ratios remain very strong with Common Equity Tier 1 of 10.2%.
Fully phased in Common Equity Tier 1 increased to 10%.
Our LCR decreased to 130 and our asset liquid buffer at the end of the quarter was very strong at 13.5%.
Let's look at some segment results beginning on Slide 13.
Community Bank's net income was up $9 million from last quarter and up $22 million from the fourth quarter of last year.
This was driven by commercial lending retail lending and deposits as well as higher funding spreads on deposits partially offset by lower rates on new commercial loans.
Net interest income increased $87 million with about half of that driven by Susquehanna.
Finally with all the regulatory approvals we received for the planned acquisition of national Penn we expect to close on April 1st with a third quarter systems conversion.
Turning to Slide 14.
Residential mortgage banking net income totaled $49 million down $10 million from after quarter driven by lower gain on mortgage loan production partially offset by increasing net servicing income.
Gain on sale spreads dropped slightly to 103 and 58% of our production mix was purchase.
Looking at Slide 15.
Dealer Financial Services income totaled $42 million down $2 million from last quarter.
The provision was up due to higher charge-offs in dealer finance and regional acceptance.
Turning to Slide 16.
Specialized lending net income totaled $71 million up $2 million from last quarter driven by higher commercial mortgage income and leasing income.
Looking at Slide 17.
Insurance services net income totaled $36 million up $15 million from last quarter mostly driven by a seasonal increase in commercial property and casualty insurance and higher life commissions due to seasonality and improved production.
Year-to-date same store sales achieved about 1% growth as the market for insurance pricing is softer.
Turning to Slide 18.
Financial services segment had $103 million in net income up $21 million from last quarter.
Corporate banking generated significant loan growth of 30%.
Wealth experienced 16% loan growth and 21% growth in transaction deposits.
Non-interest income decreased $10 million linked quarter due to lower SBIC partnership income and investment advisory fees.
In summary we achieved broad-based loan growth and revenue growth due to Susquehanna continued excellent credit quality and positive operating leverage.
We look forward to executing on the opportunities with our merger partners in the coming quarters.
Now let me turn it back over to Kelly for closing remarks and Q&amp;A.
Thank you Daryl.
So in summarizing again we did have a solid quarter good loan and deposit growth real momentum in the Community Bank stable margins as Daryl described excellent credit quality strong capital strong liquidity acquisitions give us a real opportunity in terms of cost saves and revenue enhancement as we go forward and while we don't think the economy's tanking we don't think it's going to be super robust either.
It's kind of a slow steady as you go activity.
But even so we have huge opportunities in new markets in new product penetrations though.
Overall a good quarter and we think we have a decent momentum as we head forward into the first.
So with that we'll turn it over to Alan for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Kelly.
Robert if you would come back on the line now and explain how our listeners may participate in the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
I just had a question on loan growth and on reserves.
On loan growth I saw your commentary on the outlook for 1Q but maybe you could give us a sense as to how you're thinking about the loan book over the course of the year given the fact that you just made one acquisition or are about to make another one wanted to get your sense of how you're planning on driving loan growth on a core level as well as through the acquisitions.
Thanks Betsy.
I'll give you and then ask Rick to comment on this.
I feel relative to the economy I feel pretty good.
This combination of Susquehanna and National Penn giving us the number four market share in Pennsylvania is a real opportunity for us.
We are further along in those two mergers than we've been in any mergers we’ve ever done that I can recall.
And Pennsylvania is a really good market a nice diversified market between Philadelphia and the Lancaster area.
So it's our kind of area.
So we feel good about that.
Florida is doing really really well now.
Texas is having a little bit of a dampening effect because of energy.
But you know energy is only about 10% of the overall impact.
So I tell people you say Texas was increasing by 1 000 people a day so now maybe it's down to 850.
Texas is still doing really well.
And we have such tiny shareholder whilst I think it's going to be relative to the economy a pretty good loan year for us.
Ricky would you comment on that.
Yeah Kelly I would say that we are pretty well positioned in Pennsylvania.
We think that will be an opportunity.
Obviously in new markets you've got to stabilize build your brand get your sales culture in place but we feel very positive about that.
From a core perspective we're seeing really strong growth in Texas.
I would support that Texas is not just all oil.
To be sure but there's a lot of other things.
We've been pleased with our loan growth in the Texas market.
Florida across the whole state has rebounded.
We've seen really solid growth in the state of Florida.
We've got opportunities to grow our ABL business.
We're looking really closely at how we make that more effective.
We're pleased with growth in small commercial and small business with the strategies that we've been employed.
We'll be careful with CRE.
You’ve heard Kelly talk about that and we've got to be careful with pricing.
We've got to be careful with risk.
But the last two quarters in the third and the fourth Community Bank growth on a linked basis has been the best it's been in probably five six or seven years.
Production as Kelly said is up.
Our activity levels are good.
I would not say that means that we think the economy's doing outstandingly well.
We just are grinding it out finding opportunities.
Our guys are working really really hard and I feel good about where we are and as we go into 2016 I feel as good about making our loan growth goals in the Community Bank in terms of where we've been over the last several years than any of those years many I feel really good about where we are.
Okay.
Thanks for the color.
Just wanted to have the follow-up on the allowance.
Daryl in the past I think you've mentioned wanted to make sure the ALR ratio doesn't go below 1% and I know you called out the marks that you've got.
So are you thinking about the ALR as the 107 print or are you embedding in your thoughts the marks that you've got? It really includes both.
When we go through the model Betsy every quarter we go through an analysis that look at how the loans are rated and how they're going to perform and what the embedded losses are and the marks are part of the embedded losses and what's on balance sheet.
So I think we feel very good about our current allowance level.
As we said in the last couple quarters as we grow our balance sheet we're going to continue to have to provide for loan growth which means we're going to have to get paid for incremental growth from that perspective.
So I would expect the provision unless something changes materially to be basically charge-offs plus also coverage for loan growth going forward.
Okay.
So some reserve build related to loan growth.
Correct.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Thank you.
Good morning Kelly good morning Daryl.
Good morning.
Hey Gerard.
Coming back to the commercial real estate comments that you guys just made can you share with us some of the underwriting concerns that you have? And can you relate that at all to what the regulators came out with recently about their concerns about underwriting standards in commercial real estate? I'll make a comment Gerard then let Clark give you much more color.
We've said for several quarters as you know that the competition in the whole at CRE space has been very difficult.
And that's been really low cap rates being used and high advance rates.
And so we've maintained our steady conservative underwriting.
For example everybody's underwriting on these low cap rates.
We underwrite on long term expected normal cap rates and that makes a big difference how much you advance.
So we look at a lot of deals we don't get them but we're fine with that.
We're just not going to violate our risk appetite to get volume in that space.
But Clarke you could add some color on to that.
Yeah Gerard you've seen recently the regulators sent back out all the historical interagency guidance around CRE which is clearly a signal that they think that it's moving a little too fast right you now.
We see and hear most about multifamily concern about just the sheer number of continued starts or units in pipeline.
At some point that's going to outstrip certainly the [indiscernible] markets in balance today and fundamentals look really good.
We are seeing some markets where rents are as high as home ownership.
You're seeing some of that again but we're seeing underwriting things like lenders underwriting off these low cap rates looking at pro forma trended rents that are above market really low vacancy et cetera et cetera and certainly the regulators are just asking everyone to go back to the fundamentals in which Kelly described well for us which we look very much at the cash flow and not so much just the low cap rate environment that we've been in the last few years.
Can you guys give us a flavor on the cap rates that you both addressed what you're using versus what you're seeing in the marketplace? So for example probably the most aggressive - you're seeing cap rates in the multifamily space in the 4 to 5.5 range rate properties office would be in the 5.75 to 7.75 retail down as low with 6 industrials low as 550 hospitality down to 6.
And so again we don't underwrite merely on the cap rate.
We're going to look at a stressed cash flow coverage and we're going to look at existing market rents and we're not going to look at those pro forma escalations and we're going to look at stress exits.
So a lot of lenders are lending against that really low cap rate.
So it looks like you've got a lot of equity in the deal but it's really probably over-financed.
So our loans would typically have less proceeds given our approach.
Great.
And Kelly to come back to your comments about your digital channel that as rolled out successfully.
Can you give us some color if you look at it over the next two to three years is this going to impact the number of branches that you need.
Do you see your branch count falling or shrinking in size the individual branches? And then second do you have any metrics on the cost savings that if you steer somebody into this digital channel rather than using a teller for a transaction what kind of cost savings you guys are seeing? Let me give you an overview.
Gerard and Ricky can give you more detail.
[indiscernible] What we've said even though U is extremely successful and that will be true for the industry.
We're clearly seeing transactions slowly methodically reducing in the branches.
And at the same time though when you talk to Xers and Yers and the lineal’s they will still tell you that one of the top two preference items in terms of selecting a bank is the convenience of a branch.
Fact is people still want to be able to go into a branch and see somebody to have a complex product or have a problem and there is a little bit of just pure psychology that we’re eyed by the branch and that’s where are money is and it makes me feel good.
SO you are not going to see a dramatic change in the number of branch but you will see an increasing focus on the size of the branches the structures the staffing in the branches and all of that will help to relatively reduce our cost as we shift more into the digital platform.
But Ricky you could give a bit more color on that.
Yeah.
So let me just talk about the branches just a little bit.
We've been on a very methodical long-term pruning of our branch system.
We've not had any real major branch reductions other than one time several years ago but we constantly look at our branches we look at underperforming branches.
We look at opportunities to consolidate branches.
So we're all over that.
Secondly we've been on a pretty steady path of reducing headcount in our branches in response to less transactions in the branches.
So we are already running pretty all gone lean in our branches today.
We're also believing that the folks in the branches need to know more do more so this sort of universal concept something we're embracing and moving forward on so that lesser people better people better enabled people can do more for our clients.
And what we're finding is our associates like it because they feel better armed to take care of client needs and it also creates savings for us.
So this is an evolutionary process.
I don't view it as a revolutionary process.
We have to continue to bon top of it.
We are seeing clearly reduction of branch transactions it’s steady.
It continues to be.
It's not gone over a cliff.
Branches still are important.
They're part of our branding.
They're part of the convenience that we have to have.
They're part of the omnichannel development.
So it's about having you but it is also about having good branches.
It's about having great ATMs.
It's about having a great call center it is about having a great experience 24 hours a day seven days a week and that's what we're trying to put together at BB&amp;T.
A lot of focus on digital and the U platform is we think unique and different and it's got lots of accolades.
Kelly mentioned over 650 000 users the last number that just came out yesterday was over 700 000 users.
The positive impact from our associates the feedback from our clients is all very very good.
Now to get to the cost of transactions we have not really done that to say what if a transaction's done in U what did it say? There's no question self service would save money no doubt about that.
But overall what we find is we can get somebody to do U we think they're going to do more at the branch.
We think they're going to do more at call center they are going to do more across all of our platforms and so at the end of the day that gives us a better chance to have a bigger share of wallet better referrals from them and ultimately drive the revenue while overall aspects around cost reduction ultimately leads to positive operating leverage in the branch that's what we're trying to achieve.
I know it sounds comical this is a very important question for us and others.
So if you take a portfolio of clients as those clients move to more mobile digital technology and as Ricky continues to downsize to 5 and the number of staff in the branches.
There is no question in my mind than to aggregate net cost to that portfolio of clients goes down.
That's a big deal for the industry.
[indiscernible] 10 years or 15 years for it to phase out but it is a big positive trend for our industry.
Great.
Thank you guys.
And we will take our next question from Paul Miller with FBR Capital.
Yeah thank you very much guys.
On the insurance line I know you sold some – it looks like we were a little bit overestimating that insurance.
I don't think we were completely factoring in some of the insurance sales.
How should we look at that going forward? Is this a good run rate on a seasonality basis what you guys did in the third and fourth quarter? Well this is Chris.
We were a little lighter in the fourth quarter primarily because we've got really we got a soft market really cranked up in the fall.
So average P&amp;C prices today are down about 4%.
We might be a little heavier in that us because we're heavier in property.
But our new business growth has been given the market really good up north of say 3% to 4%.
So on average if you kind of look at like look at same store sales when you pull out acquisitions et cetera we're up about 1.5% or so.
We think this next year with sort of run rate and growth we think potential acquisitions we think we could be up in say the 3% 4% kind of range.
Next quarter probably up in the 10% sort of range.
And there's less volatility.
We still have volatility from quarter-to-quarter but there's becoming less volatility.
We think first quarter's certainly become one of our stronger quarters first and second second could be a little stronger than first quarter but pretty much similar run rates I would say.
And can you just add real quick color on why pricing was soft in the second half of the year? Yeah what you've got in the general market is a lot of overcapacity.
We just have not had huge catastrophes to sort of eat up the capital.
So you've got retailers which the standard underwriters are just sort of bidding each other up for price and they're trying to take deals from the next guy.
So you got pricing on the retail side falling rather substantially.
We're the second largest wholesaler.
We try to keep about half of our business in retail half in wholesale for this he very reason because generally when retail is struggling wholesale is a bit better.
We're seeing pricing actually hold up in wholesale P&amp;C pretty well today and we as you know being the second largest we've got pretty good efficiencies.
On the Amber side which is more of an MGA specific sort of wind cat underwriter you've got deep discounted price.
We've been able to make it up for the most part with volume in terms of the bottom line.
It's really all about overcapacity in the market and each other really kind of competing heavy on price.
That all rectifies when you have a catastrophe.
It sort of flips the other way then.
But keep in mind one of the really positives about our insurance strategy is as you grow your client base better than the market which we're doing as you have a high retention rate better than the market which we're doing you're building in basically the way I think about it is a really positive annuity story.
Because best I can tell catastrophes will probably continue to have for since the creation of the earth so I think it probably will continue.
And so when they occur premiums will go up.
Premiums will go up our commissions go up with virtually no increase in our cost structure.
So it's not there today but it will be there.
And I think Kelly's right.
I mean our retention which is the amount of existing business you retain at renewal is about 93%.
We think the peers are probably in the upper 80s mid to upper 80s.
So we think we clearly are advantaged there.
The other thing with the pricing market in early 2000s used to have huge volatility.
You had up 30%.
I think in 2007 we might have been down in the mid-teens.
Today you see much less volatility.
They might be up and down 6% or 7% because they have much better forecasting models to determine losses.
So it’s within a much tighter range.
Okay guys.
Thank you very much.
We will take our next question from John Pancari with Evercore ISI.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
On the loan growth side I know you mentioned that you saw some impact from manufacturing sluggishness there.
So I guess if you can give us a little bit of color about what you're seeing in manufacturing and how that's impacting growth.
If you could just give us a little more color there thanks.
Hey John this is Clarke.
We haven't seen it substantially impact growth yet.
I would say the early signals that we've seen out of that is mostly when we look at large Company manufacturers or exporters.
Their sales are softer.
Their margins are down.
Profitability is strained a bit.
But we've not seen that necessarily translate yet into slower overall demand in the market.
So it's been more of just a subtle signals as we continue to analyze the credits.
So our comment was really saying that looking forward if there's a substantial decline in manufacturing that would impact loan growth.
John.
Sorry about that.
On the pricing side wanted to see if the widening spreads at all if that - you're seeing in the market if that has helped - given you any relief on the pricing side at all? And then separately when we look at your loan growth and I know you've commented on the pricing competition a couple times being a factor normally you're in that 5% to 6% total loan growth range.
You're running right now a little bit below that.
Should we expect that you're looking at more like a 4% annual range as we move through the full year mainly given these headwinds? John I think the way we look at it you heard us say this before it's probably what GDP is plus 1% or 2%.
Our estimate and what our plan has is loan growth in the 3% to 4% range next year.
But there's a lot of volatility right now.
But that's what we have in our plan.
As far as loan spreads linked quarter versus third versus fourth C&amp;I was pretty much stable.
A little bit of deterioration in CRE.
Pretty stable in C&amp;I and on the consumer side sales finance as Kelly mentioned in his earlier comments really well but flat about 1% on prime indirect auto which is one of the reasons why we're shrinking that portfolio.
And the bright spot is in Ricky's growth a direct retail we have strong growth in retail and our spreads are continuing to widen.
We're up about 10 basis points 15 basis points in that sector.
Okay.
And then one last one from me going back to Paul's line of questioning around insurance just to reconfirm that 7% decline year-over-year in your insurance revenue would you say that's all attributable to pricing? No no no.
Remember June 1st we sold American Coastal and so we had - that business was worth to us about $145 million in revenue.
So we had in say the first five months of the year we had in about $53 million or so and then from June 1 on we would have lost about $92 million in revenue.
So it's really relative to selling.
And when you look back at our common quarter comparison for this quarter versus fourth 2014 that's pretty much all American Coastal.
If you pull out American Coastal we're in fact up a couple of percent.
So it has to do with the sale of American Coastal.
Got it.
Got it.
And remember the American Coastal sale was not a net negative.
We diversified.
We reduced our risk.
We reinvested that money in and risk and produced more stable more profitable margin business in that area.
So it was a net positive to us but it shows a negative on the revenue line.
In fact I would even say we invested in a higher margin business.
At the end of the day it should drive more profitability.
Okay.
So barring that noise and barring the pricing pressure there's nothing structurally about your insurance business that's a drag on the revenue at all? I'd say quite the opposite.
We're outrunning the market.
The market's down 4% we're up 1.5% on same store sales when you pull out acquisitions.
What you're seeing in the number is all American Coastal related.
Got it.
All right.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning folks.
Thanks for taking my question.
Kelly maybe a question for you in terms of capital distribution.
With your dividend payout at or maybe slightly above the 30% levels as we calculate it I know how important dividends are to you relative to your investor base.
I guess I'm curious how you're thinking about potentially increasing the dividend in 2016 and 2017 and any color you can provide on how you and the board are thinking about buybacks would be helpful.
Thank.
Nothing's really changed in terms of our capital deployment strategy.
As you know we made it very clear that capital should first be allocated to organic growth and second to dividends and third to M&amp;A and fourth to buybacks.
So nothing's changed about that.
Nothing's likely to change about that.
These are long-term concepts that we run our business by.
So you would expect to see us think about kind of a steady relatively positive increase in the dividend.
You would expect to see us hold our total capital request for deployment to the low side of what a lot of people do because we are committed to keeping a relatively strong capital position.
And keep in mind there is a big issue out there yet to be determined that is around the counter cyclical buffer.
Not many people are talking about it but that is a potential increase in capital.
And so we're going to be conservative so that we don't end up having to go get capital a at a time when it's not market friendly.
So given all of that I would you say that you will see our performance in 2016 kind of look like 2015.
Whether we do specific buybacks or not as always it will be a function of whether or not we have acquisition opportunities that allows us to use up that extra capital like we have done in the last couple of years.
And a function of what our price is.
We're simply not going to go out and buy back stock when the price is high and it produces us negative internal rate of return for our existing shareholders.
Okay.
Thanks Kelly.
That makes sense.
And Clark maybe a question a theoretical question for you relative to energy.
I appreciate BB&amp;T's portfolio is below your peers in terms of your loan exposure but in terms of how you're thinking about the trend in non-performing or criticized assets relative to losses how do you think about provisioning against a prolonged period of low oil prices and how does that dovetail with the idea of losses because the collateral you hold against those exposures being a lot lower than potential provisions? That's a good question Matt.
Obviously just like everyone else we are monitoring the oil and gas exposure daily and redoing our price decks and looking at the sensitivities and stressing accordingly and we're going down right now to at $20 or below in our stress case.
So my biggest concern is that while we believe even down pretty low we've got very strong asset coverage and our PV9s look good.
I don't think even at low rates we fundamentally have a lot of loss exposure.
I'm more concerned about this time around there's a lot of layered bond debt behind the senior secured lenders.
And traditionally that was not the case.
And so what could happen this time if it stayed down long and low it could cause a lot of non-accrual risk as you try to work through all that layered debt.
And that could cause you to have to work through and consider discounts or losses beyond the collateral coverage you normally see.
So we're trying to think about all of that and take a conservative view of loss given default even if we've got good collateral coverage view right now.
We're trying to make sure we stay ahead of that.
I think our 5% reserve given the quality of our portfolio is very very prudent and it takes those kinds of things into consideration.
And just so we're clear Clark what's your expectation if oil does stay at the $20 level of potential additional losses or if you want to think about it this way reserving? The true answer is no one really knows.
It's all an estimate.
And everybody has different opinions.
But we have done work in our sensitivity in our allowance process and even down to a $20 level that in an ago aggregate basis we have asset coverage.
And even if you look at the cash flows discount that we think it would not be material.
Certainly if it continues to stay down we would have to put more on the watch list potentially move some to non-accrual and a provision accordingly but even with all that we don't think it's a material number at this time.
And keep in mind when you're doing reserve based lending the fact that price goes down doesn't mean that they are all automatically evaporated.
The oil's still there.
The gas is still there.
And so while you may have an extended period of time at lower prices the cash flow and payoff the loan the odds of losses in that kind of scenario is still extremely low.
Okay.
Thanks for your color guys.
And we will take our next question from Erika Najarian from Bank of America.
Good morning.
My first question dovetails a little bit on the capital planning question.
Kelly clearly the earnings outlook for the industry particularly those that don't have your scale has been ratcheted lower even in these past couple of weeks and I'm wondering what your appetite is in terms of taking advantage of that lower earnings outlook and the decline in stock prices as you think about more acquisitions in 2016.
Well Erica I think your question is insightful.
I think the longer the challenging environment persists particularly in some spaces maybe like in the energy space it's certainly putting disproportionate amount of pressure on certain companies.
And to the extent that it lasts a while it certainly could cause them to re-evaluate their strategic thinking going forward.
So we remain from a long-term point of view committed to our acquisition strategy.
Recall that it is to grow on an average basis 5% to 10% of our assets.
And that's an area you could see the probability increase of potential partners that might be interested.
So it always comes down to two things.
Well three things.
It comes down to a cultural shift but we don't really talk to people that are cultural fit.
And then it comes down to their willingness to combine and then it's just mathematics.
So to the extent that they are more challenged and that changes their appetite to consider strategic combination and to the extent that our performance does better and our price does better that would enhance the possibility of us being a able to do combinations.
Got it.
And just my second question is for Daryl.
I just wanted to make sure I understood.
The 56% to 57% efficiency ratio guide was for 1Q and I guess the follow-up to that is a lot of investors are now starting to strip further interest increases out of their model.
You don't seem to be as pessimistic.
But could you deliver continued improvement in your core efficiency if the Fed is indeed one and done? So Erica in my opening comments we said that our efficiency ratio throughout 2016 would continue to improve and by the fourth quarter of 2016 we would have an efficiency in the range of 56% to 57%.
When we put together our operating plan for 2016 a couple of months ago we were very conservative and looks like we were at least based upon the futures now on target.
But we've only embedded the December rate hike that we got in the plan until we get to the fourth quarter of 2016 and then I think in November December timeframe we have another rise.
So we basically have interest rates flat for 10 months of the year in 2016.
We didn't have any more rate increases factored in when we came up with our operating plan and with these efficiency targets.
Got it.
Sorry.
Missed that.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
We will take our next question from Michael Rose with Raymond James.
Actually Erica just asked my questions.
Thanks.
And we will go next to Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Hi this is Amanda Larsen on for Ken.
Is your outlook for NII to grow 12% to 14% year-over-year in 2016 factoring in the forward curve is that still intact given the Expedited and PBC closure versus your expectations last year? Big picture wise I would tell you that excluding acquisitions both the benefit we get from Susquehanna and National Penn we feel very good that we can grow NII year-over-year from 2015 and 2016.
That number is probably in the $150 million to $200 million range.
With the acquisitions that the NII grow significantly more than that just because we have a bigger balance sheet higher earning assets.
But this is the first year in a long time where we basically feel core is stabilized and potentially starting go up.
We're going to grow our loan book and we're going to grow organic core NII in 2016.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Marty Mosby with Vining Sparks.
Daryl I wanted to ask you about the deposit beta assumptions that you've incorporated into your asset sensitivity estimates.
Okay.
They really haven't changed for a couple years.
So when we show our sensitivities Marty in an up 200 scenario we have all of our deposit betas averaging around 60%.
What we have seen to date -- so we've had a rate rise increase in December.
We've had and we're projecting an outlook of positive margin in the first quarter of a couple basis points it's really dependent on how successful we are and what the market does on how deposit rates change.
I think we feel very good up 2 or 3 basis points in margin and we'll see if it's any better than that depending on deposit line.
I did know your 60% the actual performance so far hasn't been anywhere close to that.
So when you're looking at this estimate if you bring that down how far do these numbers go up if you assume 10% or 20% deposit beta.
I would say -- I can give you a range and kind of bracket it because it's probably in between the range.
I would say that our margin will be up 2 to 3 in the lower end and maybe double that 4 to 6 on the higher end depending on how we have to adjust deposit prices.
The retail deposit rates are pretty static.
Commercial has been inching up a little bit.
But it really depends on how things play out and it's probably not going to be the same deposit beta for all the rate increases.
We're going to have lower deposit betas in the first couple of rate increases and as rates continue to rise you're going to have probably faster deposit beta.
So it's going to be very fluid and very dynamic going forward.
Two to three times better performance if the deposit beta especially on the first couple of rate rises is much better than what was incorporated here.
And then the other thing I was going to ask as a follow-up is what really matters then is the asset yields and how they can go up.
I was looking at the -- what would be prime or LIBOR based lending that you can see right on the income statement construction lending or revolving credit.
Those rates went up like you would expect even with only two weeks of the rate rise.
The one line item that you can't really see very well is C&amp;I which is the one that really matters.
How much of those loans are embedded there or tied to LIBOR or prime and would be impacted by the short-term rates? Yeah so we had about $70 billion of loans that are tied to LIBOR and prime.
I think it's about $50 billion LIBOR and about $20 billion in prime.
You are right in that the majority of the LIBOR does move fairly quickly.
Some of it immediate some first of the month but prime tends to move first of the month or quarterly so there's a little bit of lag.
So even though rates rose in the middle of December we still have not received the full benefit of all of our assets repricing and we're in the middle of January.
It probably takes a good full two months maybe three months before all the assets are going to be positively impacted.
All right thanks.
We do have time for one more question.
We will go next to Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
Good morning.
I have a funding question and it's kind of tags onto Marty's question.
In past cycles you guys have been big issuers of CDs.
Some of your funding has been more CD dependent in past years and then you sort of backed away from CDs.
What's the sort of CD philosophy going into the rate rise cycle? It seems that you are already doing some CD specials in some markets and I just wanted to see how your CD funding philosophy may have changed.
Nancy as well as you know our company you'll recall that our company was built with a lot of mergers of small community banks and thrifts that had a huge portion of their funding from CDs.
And so as we layer in these acquisitions we're constantly in a process of rationalizing those deposit structures because a good portion of those CD portfolios that we inherit each time are really really price sensitive portfolios.
And as we bring the pricing more in line with our normal pricing a fair amount of those CD portfolios tend to exit.
So that's why you've seen a kind of relative decline in CD financing over the last few years.
You'll see some more of that as we think through Susquehanna National Penn although the price variation for them is not as different as it had been some of our acquisitions in the past.
We think CDs are a necessary and important part of our ongoing funding structure.
There's a portion of that portfolio that is kind of core bread and butter fully committed clients that we always keep.
And we're willing to pay a little more to keep those because they're long-term stable uses of our services.
On the other hand you always have the one that's are single service clients and they're shopping 15 banks and going to the one that has the highest basis point CD and we don't tend to keep those.
So I suspect as rates go up you will see our CD portfolio increase some but it won't be as dramatic as you may think because we are growing our DDA and other funding sources at a very fast pace.
And so that we intentionally and not as CD dependent as we've been in the past.
It depends on the company.
But with our variety of funding sources I don't think CD financing for you us in the future will be what it was in the past.
Okay.
If I could also ask Daryl if you could just -- I missed the summary of the energy portfolio or what may be dependent on energy.
Could you just give us the numbers again please from a total perspective.
Sure.
I mean we have $1.4 billion in outstanding and energy loans and our allowance that we have allocated to energy is approximately 5%.
Are those energy loans primarily Texas centric? I mean is this sort of one of the characteristics of going into Texas? Or are they distributed in other geographies as well? Nancy this is Clark.
They're originated out of a specialty group out of Houston but they're all over the country in all the different energy bases.
But Nancy in case you missed that it's a very conservative portfolio 67% is upstream 30% is midstream and only 3% is support services and we also have no delinquencies no losses and no non-accruals.
And percentage investment grade if you have that.
That's -- 75% of our portfolio of course I recall are either in upstream or investment grade portfolios.
That's right.
So it's high majority is near investment grade or investment grade.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
And this concludes our Q&amp;A session.
I will turn the call back to our moderators for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
We have no further commentary at this time.
This concludes our call.
Thank you and I hope you have a good day.
And this does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you again for your participation and have a wonderful day.