Good morning.
Thank you for joining The Sherwin-Williams Company's review of first quarter 2011 results and expectations for the second quarter and full year.
With us on today's call are: Chris Connor Chairman and CEO; Sean Hennessy Senior Vice President of Finance and CFO; Al Mistysyn Vice President Corporate Controller; and Bob Wells Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications.
This conference call is being webcast simultaneously in listen-only mode by Vcall via the Internet at www.sherwin.com.
An archived replay of this webcast will be available at www.sherwin.com beginning approximately two hours after this conference call concludes and will be available until Wednesday May 11 at 5 p.m.
Eastern Standard time.
This conference call will include certain forward-looking statements as defined under U.S.
federal securities laws with respect to sales earnings and other matters.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A full declaration regarding forward-looking statements is provided in the company's earnings release transmitted earlier this morning.
After the review of first quarter results we will open the session to questions.
I will now turn the call over to Bob Wells.
Thanks Jackie.
As usual in order to allow more time for questions we provided balance sheet items and other selected information on our website at sherwin.com under Investor Relations First Quarter press release.
Summarizing overall company performance for first quarter 2011 versus first quarter 2010 consolidated net sales increased 18.5% to $1.86 billion due primarily to acquisitions and selling price increases.
Acquisitions increased consolidated net sales 9% and positive currency translation added 1.2%.
Consolidated gross profit increased $105.4 million for the quarter to $797.4 million.
Gross margin decreased 120 basis points to 43% of sales from 44.2% in the first quarter last year.
Selling general and administrative expenses for the quarter increased $78.2 million over first quarter last year to $691.1 million.
As a percent of sales SG&amp;A decreased 37.2% this year from 39.1% last year.
Interest expense decreased $895 000 compared to the first quarter last year.
Consolidated profit before taxes in the quarter increased $35.2 million or 59% to $94.7 million.
Our effective tax rate in the first quarter this year was 27.9% compared to 45.2% in the first quarter of 2010.
And as a reminder last year's first quarter tax rate reflected a onetime increase in income tax expense $11.4 million related to the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act which raised our effective tax rate by 19.2% for the quarter.
For the full year 2011 we expect our effective tax rate will be in the low 30% range compared to last year's rate of 31.8%.
Consolidated net income increased $35.7 million to $68.3 million.
Net income as a percent of sales was 3.7% this year compared to 2.1% in the first quarter last year.
Diluted net income per common share for the quarter increased to $0.63 per share from $0.30 per share in 2010.
The tax impact of health care legislation reduced last year's first quarter EPS by $0.10 per share.
Looking at our results by operating segment.
Sales for our Paint Stores Group in first quarter 2011 increased 9.2% to $929.3 million from $850.9 million last year.
Comparable store sales that is sales open more than 12 calendar months increased 8.9%.
The increase in sales for the segment was due primarily to higher selling prices and improving demand in residential repaint and protective and marine market.
Regionally in the first quarter our Southwest division led all divisions followed by Southeast division Eastern division and Midwestern division.
Segment profit for the Group increased 44.2% to $68.9 million in the first quarter 2011 due primarily to selling price increases that were partially offset by higher raw material costs.
Segment operating margin increased 7.4% from 5.6% in the first quarter last year.
Turning to Consumer Group.
Sales in the first quarter increased 1% to $294.9 million.
The increase was due primarily to selling price increases and the timing of seasonal shipments to some customers that were partially offset by the loss of business at a large retail customer.
Segment profit for the Consumer Group increased 9.7% in the quarter to $41.1 million.
Segment profit as a percent of external sales increased to 13.9% from 12.8% in the same period last year.
The improvement in operating margin was due primarily to continued tight expense control and price increases that were partially offset by raw material cost increases.
Finally for our Global Finishes Group sales in U.S.
dollars increased 49.6% to $630.2 million in the quarter due primarily to acquisitions higher paint sales volume selling price increases and favorable currency translation rate changes.
In the quarter acquisitions increased net sales by 33.3% and favorable currency translation rate changes added 3.6%.
First quarter segment profit increased 60% to $36.8 million due to higher sales volume and good expense control.
Foreign currency rate changes and acquisitions increased segment profit by $1.6 million.
Segment profit as a percent of sales increased to 5.8% from 5.5% in the same period last year.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Our total debt on March 31 2011 was $1.34 billion including total short-term borrowings of $678.4 million.
Total debt on March 31 2010 was $1.04 billion.
Our cash balance at the end of the quarter was $53.9 million compared to $91.2 million at the end of the first quarter 2010.
Total borrowings to capitalization were 45.4% at the end of the quarter versus 41% at the end of the first quarter 2010.
Long-term debt-to-capitalization declined to 22.4% at the end of the first quarter this year compared to 31.4% last year due to the repurchase of $137 million in long-term debt back in 2010.
In the first quarter of 2011 we spent $27 million on capital expenditures depreciation expense was $37.3 million and amortization expense was $6.4 million.
For the full year we anticipate capital expenditures will be approximately $150 million to $160 million.
Depreciation will be about $140 million and amortization will be approximately $40 million.
I'll conclude my remarks on the quarter with a brief update on the status of our lead pigment litigation.
In the California public nuisance suit no timetable has yet been set for discovery.
Since our year-end 2010 call the city of Los Angeles has withdrawn from the litigation while Ventura County has joined.
On April 19 the Mississippi State Supreme Court heard oral argument on our appeal of the $7 million personal injury award in the Gaines personal injury suit.
We expect a decision in the next 90 to 120 days.
That concludes our review of the results for first quarter 2011 so I'll turn the call over to Chris Connor who will make some general comments and highlight our expectations for second quarter and full year.
Chris? Thank you Bob and good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us today.
We anticipated that 2011 would get off to a strong start and that was reflected in our first quarter guidance.
This expectation was based on the relatively easy comps we faced over the first three months and on the actions we took last year to manage our cost structure and implement necessary price increases.
Our first quarter sales of $1.86 billion was the largest opening quarter in our company's history by almost $50 million.
What makes this milestone a little less gratifying is that very little of incremental sales came from core volume growth.
The majority from acquisitions we completed last year the multiple price increases we took in response to rising raw material costs and moderately favorable currency translations.
Core volume was only slightly positive in the quarter.
There were some relative bright spots.
Domestic residential repaint sales both DIY and pro continued to outperform the other architectural segments.
Protective and marine coatings demand is picking up in many markets.
And our automotive finishes product finishes and Latin American coatings businesses all delivered solid volume growth.
But the continuing volume declines in domestic new construction and many nonresidential repaint segments coupled with the loss of business at one of our retail accounts erased most of this positive volume momentum.
At this point we remain cautious in our outlook for domestic market demand over the remainder of the year.
In the second quarter we'll also begin to annualize some of the price increases and acquisition revenue which will make comparisons more difficult going forward.
First quarter was also a strong quarter in terms of our earnings improvement.
Even after adding back to last year the $0.10 per share tax impact of the health care legislation first quarter 2011 earnings per share was up more than 57%.
Consolidated gross margin declined 120 basis points year-over-year due to the rapid increase in raw material cost and gross margin dilution from acquisitions.
Looking ahead the impact of higher raw material costs will likely get worse before it gets better.
On our last call we predicted that in 2011 the coatings industry would experience annualized year-over-year raw material price inflation in the low double-digit 10% to 13%.
Given the recent upward trend in propylene and the aggressive pricing actions taken by many of the major raw material suppliers particularly the TiO2 producers we now believe a mid-teens percent increase is more realistic.
If you look at year-over-year input cost comparisons by quarter raw materials began to rise in the second quarter last year then accelerated in the third and fourth quarters.
Given the rate and timing of increases so far in 2011 the year-over-year increase in raw material cost is likely to be greater in the second quarter with the rate of increase moderating somewhat in the back half which means raw material costs are likely to be an even stronger earnings headwind over the balance of the year.
First quarter SG&amp;A spending was up over last year and most of this increase was reflected in our budget.
The largest contributors to SG&amp;A growth were the three acquisitions new stores opened since the first quarter last year the timing of advertising expenditures and increases in compensation expense in Global Group and Paint Stores Group.
As a percent of sales SG&amp;A declined 190 basis points in the quarter compared to last year.
Our working capital also increased in the quarter.
Backing out working capital from acquisitions our core working capital increased to 13% of sales from 12.4% last year.
Most of the increase was the result of a concentrated effort to build inventory ahead of raw material price hikes and protect against potential material shortages.
Of the $189 million increase in finished goods inventory only $47 million of that was from acquisitions.
Raw material inventories also increased $45 million net of acquisitions.
During the first quarter we continued to invest in our controlled distribution platform.
Paint Stores Group added 7 net new store locations bringing our total store count in the U.S.
Canada and the Caribbean to 3 397 locations compared to the 3 357 a year ago.
Our plan calls for Paint Stores Group to add approximately 50 to 60 new store locations during the year while the number of store closings should fall back in line with our typical low to mid-single digit pace.
During the quarter we used the company's cash to buy back 1.1 million shares of our stock and increase the quarterly dividend rate to $0.365 from $0.36 last year.
At March 31 we have remaining authorization to purchase 4.65 million shares of our stock.
Our balance sheet remains fiscally sound and capable of financing our planned business operations and growth for the foreseeable future.
In spite of the challenges we're likely to encounter over the balance of the year our plan calls for continued improvement in sales and earnings.
We anticipate that our consolidated net sales in the second quarter will increase 8% to 13% compared to last year's second quarter.
With sales at that level we expect diluted net income per common share for the second quarter to be in the range of $1.65 to $1.75 per share compared to last year's record earnings performance of $1.64 per share.
For the full year 2011 we expect consolidated net sales to increase above 2010 levels by a high single-digit percentage and with annual sales at that level we are reaffirming our guidance that diluted net income per common share for 2011 is expected to be in the range of $4.65 to $5.05 per share compared to $4.21 per share earned in 2010.
Again thanks to all of you for joining us this morning and now we'd be happy to take your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Our first question is coming from Eric Bosshard of Cleveland Research Company.
Two things.
First of all on the price cost situation can you just give us a sense -- you had commented about gross margins in 1Q and 2Q but can you comment about your thoughts on when and how you get caught up in a balanced recovery and gross margins? Eric this is Sean Hennessy.
Back to your point just to remind everyone when you look at the company as a whole the price mix we had slight positive volume most of it was price.
When you take a look at it the other thing that we probably would point out to you in our gross margin is the gross margins on these acquisitions were really the majority of in the first quarter of the decline the 44.2% down to the 43%.
And our core was close to making it up in the first quarter.
But as Chris pointed out with the rapid increases in the second quarter compared to the first quarter we think that for the full year when you take a look at our gross profit with the acquisitions and so forth -- and we've shown you that slide in the past.
When you have these rapid raw material increases when we first get those we do have a decline in our gross profit.
And so to sort of -- to finish that knowing that this is historically how it works that it goes down and then it goes back up can you just talk about sort of the confidence and perhaps the kind of the recovery in the second half? Yes I think when you take a look at the second half of the year we start to anniversary the acquisitions.
And when you start thinking about the way this has worked in the past we feel very confident that eventually we will be able to recover the raws and probably with -- from my comment I would say that we're now starting to talk about 2012 before the gross profit percent gets back into the 2009 and '10 and -- or I'm sorry 10% and 11%.
And then just a follow-up if I can.
On the volumes through Q2 to 4Q last year you saw some volume growth.
You commented that there was just slight volume progress this quarter.
Can you talk a little bit about what's going on in there and perhaps about what's going on excluding the impact of the Wal-Mart business? Yes I think that the volumes for the company Eric were slightly up in the quarter as we commented.
Our store volumes through our comp stores was essentially flat.
I think kind of what we've been seeing as we've been commenting for a while that there is some strains in the residential repaint segment but we're still seeing year-over-year declines in demand and new construction market and some of the non-res repaint commercial specifically.
And all those things are kind of giving us around this flat volume kind of sense of where we're headed.
I think our guidance for the second quarter would indicate if you can kind of back out sort of the acquisition impact and the pricing impact and other modest volume expectation in the second quarter as well.
And that's really the visibility that we don't quite have yet for the remainder of the year to see if that's going to rebound or not.
At this point in time we think it's going to be a -- will be a modest year for volume.
Great.
Thanks.
Our next question is coming from Jeff Zekauskas of JP Morgan.
You had up operating profit in your Consumer business even though your sales were flat and your raw materials were up in some double-digit rate.
So how did you do that? I think with a couple of things Jeff.
You see the inventory increase I think we had a really nice conversion rate in the first quarter because of the amount of gallons that we made for a lot that into the efficiencies with their process when we transferred.
And secondly the price -- what they were able to do with some of the price.
You just think about the Wal-Mart we've talked about that being in the range of $70 million to $80 million.
And if you take a look at it by quarter that pretty well speaks -- if you're straight line on that you're pretty close.
They had a 1% sales gain even going up against that Wal-Mart.
So we think that has more to do with timing.
But they did pretty well with getting the selling price in the volume and then their costs were pretty -- they did a nice job on it.
And then lastly do you guys have a strategy now in titanium dioxide in the sense that none of the small TiO2 players really have the financial strength to build new capacity and DuPont seems at least at this juncture a little bit slow in adding capacity.
So what will you do? I mean do you just grin and bear it? Or do you try to work with some TiO2 producers to get to it de facto vertical integration? Or what do you do? There's a number of things we're working on Jeff to deal with the increasing raw material cost pressures grin and bearing it among them by the way.
But there are a whole host of projects underway from a technical standpoint to improve the efficiency of titanium's performance in a can of paint so we can use less of it.
There are lesser quality titanium manufacturers that are stepping up.
Their consistency they can get those products into paint grade.
There's a whole host of activities underway.
And I think what invariably ends up happening when we see historically the same kind of the titanium cycle when pricing and operating margins in the business get too inflated capacity comes back on.
More people will cut price and look for market share gains inside the industry.
DuPont's earnings was released this morning.
The numbers on their performance chemical segment were off the charts incredible.
And I think that bodes well for some additional activity in this industry whether it's capacity coming on or some price variance.
So we'll see what happens.
History is our guide here.
This is a cycle that will have a back end to it.
And it's our intention to be in pretty good shape when we get there.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from P.J.
Juvekar of Citigroup.
If you look at your raw materials into three buckets you have resins pigments and solvents.
Can you just size for us how much of -- how much are these -- each of these broken up? We haven't broken it down that way P.J.
Generally we just -- first obviously we always talk about industry raw material experience rather than our own.
And we prefer to keep it as an overall basket of materials because there's a lot of movement within the basket and we prefer not to get in at that level of detail.
Suffice it to say that there's been pretty -- it's been pretty well documented how much TiO2 is up.
And if we see kind of the mid to upper end of that range of inflation applied to TiO2 it gets us to the 8% to 9% inflation on the total basket.
So with our mid-teen outlook it tells you we anticipate pretty significant cost pressures across the rest of the basket and most of that is propylene related.
And is the Consumer Group seeing less price increases than the Paint Stores Group? And is there kind of resistance you are seeing from the -- in the Consumer Group from customers? No I think P.J.
we've been consistent when we take price into the market.
We're very transparent with the investment community relative to the pricing that we announce through our Stores Group.
We give you kind of the tenth [ph] of a percentage point and the exact date we take it out.
We don't share that same transparency with the Consumer Group given the ongoing discussions we have with various retail partners.
But take comfort in the fact that these raw material cost pressures we're feeling are across all of our products and our disciplines here would be intact and we would expect our Consumer Group to be in the market with pricing in the same relative range at the same relative timing that we announce through our stores and that in fact has been the case.
And they have been successful in getting pricing this year.
Sure.
And one quick clarification question.
Sean did you say that you've pulled forward some production in the Consumer Group from 2Q into 1Q? Yes.
When you look at our inventory we did allow our inventory to rise.
Last year we wanted to do two things.
We wanted to make sure that we service our customer.
Last year there was a lot of concerns about whether we're able to do that with some of the raw material shortages after the Rohm and Haas and Dow conversion.
And so we brought -- we build the inventory higher and also helped us strengthen the raw materials before the big rise.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Don Carson of Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP</strong> Yes thank you.
A couple of questions on volumes and your channel shifts.
As I look at the DOC information it seems a little puzzling.
They show up 7% last year still have yet to find a coatings manufacturer with 7% volume increases.
But I know you've assumed it was up a few points your Paint Stores were flat.
They seem to be flat in the first quarter.
So does this reflect again DIY taking share away from the contractor? And I would have thought that with Glidden closing a lot of stores that you'd be the best positioned to benefit from that shift as well.
So maybe you can comment on market share shifts and market shares.
Of course.
And by the way Don as you know this we agree with your assessment that the Department of Commerce numbers for 2010 don't make a lot of sense.
If you look at our customer mix within our Paint Stores Group you know we're 85% contractor and roughly 15% DIY.
Our DIY business has actually been growing pretty dramatically.
So if we were the same mix as the market we'd probably be gaining share across all segments.
We're confident that we are not losing share.
We're gaining share in the contractor market.
But it's just the mix that's causing us to probably -- to grow at a rate equal to or maybe slightly behind the market as opposed to losing share in these segments.
LLLP</strong> And then what about the impact of Glidden closing stores.
Why wouldn't we see more of a benefit in your Paint Stores Group? Yes I think the -- Glidden has in fact over the last several years been reducing their store count in North America.
I think you see in some pockets where there was a Glidden store of some volume gains that we'd see that spread over the stores that are in that same market.
Again to Bob's point these big commercial store locations that would be gathering business from that are still feeling the impact of the slower nonresidential market out there.
So the repaints for institutional and commercial properties are lagging in the construction for both new res and new commercial is lagging.
And we're weathering through that storm at the same time that we're able to generate our own substantial earnings improvement.
LLLP</strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Trey Grooms of Stephens Inc.
Yes this is actually B.G.
taking in for Trey today.
I have a question on consumer promotion within the Stores group.
It seems like -- we're hearing that -- through channel checks that you guys are going to be doing a little bit more promotion on consumer side.
I know that two weeks ago you ran a 3-day sale nationwide.
It was 40% off on all stains and paints which I believe was a lot higher than what you had previously been running.
We're also hearing that the frequency of these promotions might be occurring more often.
So just wanted to get your thoughts on -- if that is in fact the case and then also kind of what you're seeing were the results of that? Yes I think Bob briefly commented that we have seen a really nice rebound in our DIY business to our stores platform.
That really began sometime in the middle of 2010.
And the company did adopt a little bit more of an aggressive promotional stance at that point in time in an attempt to trigger buy and we have found that the DIY consumer particularly in this downturn is a little bit more sensitive to price promotions.
And so we've implemented a little bit more of aggressive program there.
Stains and paints off percentage off has been typically the way that we've gone at that.
The percentages off have been pretty consistent throughout our promotional history so 40% is not dramatically out of line with what we've done historically.
And starting a little bit earlier this year than we might have in the past our first quarter promotion the one you're referencing that we ran a few weekends ago is a little bit early for us but throughout the remainder of the year these will be fairly consistent pretty much lined up with exactly the same kind of promotional periods we had in 2010.
And I don't think this is any significant shift in change in terms of how we market or what our expectations would be.
Suffice to say that the margin performance that we have in this DIY business is terrific.
And so generating more footsteps to the door even at these percentage discounts is really good business for the company.
Okay.
Great.
Just a follow-up question related back to the TiO2.
Can you guys get into just how you typically contract? Is that 90 days? I'm hearing in the industry there may be some changes there.
Can you just comment on how -- that contract I guess? Yes I think that this has changed over the last decade or so.
It used to be you would contract your volume out at around 80% to 85% and you'd be in the spot [ph]  Market for 10% to 15%.
Now I think it's a more fluid situation.
You're making agreements of how much you're going to be able to get from different people at different prices and -- we don't basically have a contract per se any more.
They're probably more agreements that you look at.
And so I think pricing though I mean they're pretty public about when they're going out with these prices.
They've also salvaged -- I've heard from different people where they say that there's 60 to 90 days for the pricing protection which we've never said but we've heard that they've said.
And we didn't disagree with it.
But whether that changes or not we don't know.
But I would say it's more on a quarterly-by-quarterly basis right now.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Greg Melich of ISI.
Thank you guys.
Two questions.
First on the SG&amp;A you were down about 200 bps year-over-year.
Could you just tell us how much of that was from acquisitions the way you did on gross margin which was helpful.
Then I have a follow-up on pricing.
Yes you know what Greg I don't have that in front of me quite honestly.
I mean the only thing -- because we really didn't do much work to break that out.
We note -- what we -- just like from Chris' comments it is a large piece of it but we don't have that broken out.
Okay.
So it wasn't [indiscernible] like it was in gross margin but also SG&amp;A would have still been down even if you back out acquisition? Yes.
Because you gain leverage on the price.
Yes.
And if I remember in the fourth quarter call it was too early to say whether the 8% price increase late last year was sticking and or behaving normally.
Now we're a few months into it.
Is it sticking? Is it behaving the way it normally does? Yes.
That price increase went in well.
In fact of all 3 price increases last year it was probably the most effective.
Was the last one? Yes the 8%.
And does that mean then that if raws continue doing what they're doing that you could consider going earlier? Or is the fact that the volume [indiscernible] another one or is the fact that the volume remains sort of so-so in the industry that you feel like that's limiting you at all? Well we've always commented Greg that our pricing activity to our customers is always a raw material-driven event.
So we've taken pricing in periods of declining volume in the industry as well as accelerating volumes.
So that won't have that much of an impact on it.
We will be paying really close attention to this continuing raw material cost index and if it continues to run ahead of us we'll probably have to take additional pricing.
Right.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Kevin McCarthy of Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
Sean a couple of questions on the tax line and the fluctuations there.
A quarter ago I think you pointed to mid- to low-30s.
It looks like you've come in closer to 28.
I was wondering if you could comment on the variance there? And if I understood your comment this morning correctly it sounds like you'd expect it to perhaps resurge in the balance of the year.
I'd be curious as to what might be driving that as well? Yes the way the tax rules change -- the accounting for the tax rules about 5 to 7 years ago discrete items which used to be I would say smoothed over the year no longer the case.
And so as discrete items come in and -- we had a couple of discrete items come in in the last two weeks of March that caused us to be a little lower in the first quarter than what we originally thought.
It's not a great deal but because the first quarter the profit before taxes the lowest number of all four when you get a discrete item the effective tax rate could change dramatically with the same dollar amount in the first versus the second versus the third.
But you're right.
When we said there look at our full year what we think and the guidance we gave which is the low-30s that will tell you that our tax rate's going to be over 30 when you put the last three quarters together.
Okay.
And then a second question if I may for Chris on the Consumer segment.
I apologize in advance.
It might be tough to answer because it's a bit general.
But with regard to the prior loss at Wal-Mart do you see today attractive opportunities to replace that volume in a counterpunching sort of fashion? Or is that perhaps sub-optimal and better to remain disciplined given the sacrifices you might need to make to do that? Well Kevin I'm a specialist at answering generalist questions so don't worry about that.
Obviously we are selling into a really consolidating retail customer base there.
There are just a handful of people upscale left in that industry versus a decade ago where there were dozens and dozens of fairly robust regional home center chains and we really have a consolidated group.
We have been very consistent in our comments that we have compelling products and brands and opportunities we think to add real value to one of those major players.
We continue with an aggressive calling effort on them constantly.
They're good customers of us today with our Minwax and Thompson and Krylon and other products that we sell into them.
And if there was ever an opening we'd be happy to fill it.
What's the caveat to your point of maintaining our discipline here.
So we have a growth strategy in this company in North America through our own Paint Store channel that provides us a lot of runway ahead.
But we'd be happy to be a partner with one of these folks under the right circumstances.
Time will tell.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Chuck Cerankosky of Northcoast Research.
Chris repeatedly we've been hearing more and more about the marine business in your report as one of the stronger industrial coatings areas.
Can you talk about that a little bit what's driving it? Our protective and marine business has been performing nicely over the last several quarters.
I think we have talked consistently with the street relative to the fact that in down cycles this is an area that maintenance really can't be deferred for long periods of time.
A lot of the stimulus money that went into our country and other countries around the world is starting to wind its way into paint portions of those projects.
And so we're seeing a nice lift in that business literally around the globe both in the U.S.
businesses as well as our Global Group segment.
In our vernacular Chuck because the industry refers to it protective and marine we're much heavier in the protective side of that than the marine side of it.
So while we do have some businesses that have some application characteristics or parts of ocean going and groundwater vessel our lift in this business is mainly coming from the protective side where we're coating steel and concrete in a corrosive environment.
All right.
Just clear up a couple of things.
The Wal-Mart business impact in the first quarter Sean did you say that was more or less annualized after the rest of the year.
Yes.
What I was saying is we've given you the annual number of $70 million to $80 million and that's by quarter it's relatively streamlined.
Got you.
All right.
Now also I look at my notes and I could be wrong but I thought your original guidance for CapEx was about $20 million lower for 2011.
Is that the case? Have you raised CapEx guidance? We raised CapEx around $20 million.
You are 100% accurate.
We've looked at some of the things including possibly in our flight department that needed to be upgraded.
And so with the way the industry -- that industry we might take advantage of where prices are to do a couple of things there.
Any other parts of the company that are going to get the additional capital balance? No that's the majority of it.
All right.
You had a -- it looks like a $4.4 million gain -- I'm looking at my notes.
Yes $4.4 million gain from an asset sale.
What segment was that contained in? That's in admin.
And basically that was the old paint [indiscernible] that we had in Newark in New Jersey.
We had some of the entries in the fourth quarter last year.
And this year was the rest of it.
But that's the end of it.
So it didn't fall through any of the three operating segments.
No not at all.
All right.
Okay.
And then the debt is up quite a bit year-over-year.
All that went into working capital and inventory? Yes.
But first of all you have to realize we did take on quite a bit of debt non-domestic debt when we did those acquisitions outside the country especially the Europeans.
So we have those.
And secondly just because of the ramp up in the working capital we were -- our cash flow our net operating cash was actually -- that was $153 million versus last year's approximately $100 million.
So the working capital demand made us have a little more debt on the books.
All right.
And then last year in the quarter we had added back -- or for our purposes we added back $0.08 as nonoperating guidance mainly for that debt retirement cost or debt repurchase cost you did in the second quarter.
Anything like that going on in the second quarter of this year we should be aware of or even all the rest of the year? No not at all.
I think that that's -- we don't see anything to that magnitude.
The other thing we did point out though is -- I know everyone added back $0.08 but we had a few things going the other way that would reduce that $0.08 that we have to go up against.
But I fully -- I know where you got the $0.08.
All right.
Thank you very much guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Dmitry Silversteyn of Longbow Research.
I just want to make sure that I understood what you were saying about the store pricing going off.
It looked like if I kind of back out flattish to maybe up 1% volume growth maybe a little bit of mix improvement as more DIY traffic come through that pricing was up about 7% 7.5%? Is that about the range that I should be thinking of for the rest of the year? Yes you're in the range Dmitry.
Okay very good.
Secondly on the corporate expense line you see a lot of volatility there over the last few years.
Can you give us some of kind of the bigger moving pieces that we possibly can use to forecast what your corporate expense would be? Yes I think some of the bigger pieces that over the last couple of years we've done a few things and we've tried to do a few things.
And #1 is environmental expense.
And I would say that we've really made a conscious effort in the last 7 8 years really to try to get for a lack of a better term no further action letters from the local and the national EPA.
But some of the larger locations that we've had that we've put in our Q and if you get a chance to read the footnote regarding the environmental expenses.
And so two years ago we went down a path of a piece of property in New Jersey Brownsburg New Jersey that worked with EPA to try to get to the point where long term it's no longer a contingent liability.
We also did it late last year with the Newark New Jersey paint plant.
We also did a lot of this work in Chicago as well as at Emeryville.
So we're hoping that in the next few years we're going to be through the majority of those assets.
So that has been in the -- caused a lot of the fluctuation.
And then we've had a lot of different things in that admin line that have gone back and forth with the interest expense and some of the other things and what Chuck just mentioned.
The warrants that last year in the second quarter was $0.08.
And I'm sure if Chuck was still on the phone he would tell you in the fourth quarter there was also a piece there so -- and then we've also taken a look at the assets.
And last year we're able to sell a couple of assets some plants when we went through the rightsizing of the company a few years ago.
There was a couple of pieces of real estate that we felt that really we didn't need anymore.
So depending on where we were on the book value we were selling different assets throughout.
So the inventory of those type of assets are down.
We're getting closer to the end of it.
Our interest is -- I think we're done doing adjustments to our debt.
So I think going forward it could be a lot less volatile than we've had in the last three to four years.
So in terms of modeling and for quarterly purposes can I assume that it's going to be somewhere in the low 50s? Yes I think that's probably that.
When you take a look at the full year I think the full year you still have to go against those warrants that Chuck mentioned in the second and fourth quarter.
But I think that it's probably not that bad of a modeling.
You also mentioned in your prepared remarks in the second quarter besides the accelerating raw material negative comps that you're going to see you're also starting to annualize acquisitions and price increases.
I understand the acquisition part of it but to the extent that you got new pricing in your stores somewhere close to let's call it mid-single digits 6% 7% something like that in December January period of 2010 which price increase annualization were you referring to? Because that sounds like it's just getting started.
In April 1 of last year we took approximately a 4% price increase through our Stores business.
So until we get back around April 1 of this year we have that price increase flow into the system.
There was another 4% in July and then an 8% in December.
So we've been essentially operating in 3 price actions Dmitry over these last several months.
And the most -- furthest back one of those is now going to anniversary off.
So we're essentially running on two price increases then.
Okay.
I understand.
Thanks.
That's all the question I have.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Dennis McGill of Zelman and Associates.
A Thanks again.
The one thing kind of I was hoping you could help me with on the gross margin impact from the acquisitions you mentioned the sequential impact.
But I think that the acquisitions would've been on the majority of the fourth quarter.
So I'm just trying to understand is that a seasonal difference between the core business and the acquisitions? Or why would there still be a sequential impact with that mix? Yes when you take a look at -- let's go back April 1 we're also anniversarying the Sayerlack acquisition the one acquisition.
So we're going to start -- last year the Sayerlack -- the acquisition gross margins are lower than our core.
And so when you start to go up against on a comp basis we went ahead in the second quarter last year and we have in the second quarter this year.
I know.
You add this sequentially.
Yes.
Yes when you take a look at it sequentially the acquisitions don't have the biggest sales -- bell-shaped curve as well as our other business.
Our core business in the first quarter is one of the lowest.
It's at the end of the bell-shaped curve.
Theirs is more of a straight line.
So you're right.
They're going to have more impact in the first quarter than they're going to have in the second third or even the fourth.
So if anything does that mix shift then go the other way as we move into the middle part of the year because [indiscernible]...
Yes.
[indiscernible] but you just have a larger piece of the core and a higher gross margin.
And so that's why it won't have as much of an effect.
Right.
Okay.
And then just more generally Chris if you want to take this.
Just commenting on the residential repaint business as you move through the quarter did you guys see any differences? And can you talk at all -- a little bit about the spring and how the spring has opened up typical to -- versus typical seasonality? Yes the first quarter obviously the very low quarter for res repaint there's literally no exterior house painting season through that portion.
So I think the kind of volume numbers that we've been counting on in our Paint Stores Group particularly where we see that the majority of that business is relatively flat would indicate that it was not falling off the charts and certainly not rebounding dramatically.
We're just getting into the season now.
We have had some rough weather.
We see that in the fact that our exterior paint sales are lagging behind where they would typically be at this time.
So hopefully that's indicating some kind of demand and we'll have a much better feel for that at the end of the second quarter Dennis.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Bob Koort of Goldman Sachs.
It's Brian Maguire on for Bob this morning.
Just to come back to pricing and I know you guys don't like to tip your hand on pricing before you make the public announcement but just thinking philosophically about how you think about pricing and has that changed over the last year? And as you said some of your suppliers your TiO2 suppliers have been more public in announcing their price increases and they've also been pretty open about the frequency with which they should be coming down the line in the next year or 2 periodically every 3 months or so has that changed your thinking about your timing of announcing price increases and maybe doing them more frequently and on the basis of some kind of formula when you do see your raw material go up? And then also as the biggest architectural paint company in the U.S.
is your kind of thought around being a leader on pricing in this kind of a raw material environment changed over the last year? Yes I would say Brian that our philosophy on pricing has not changed that again we remain a raw material-driven pricer.
When we get these pressures we've always begun with the process by pushing back to see if we can mitigate it from the supplier to us.
Secondarily what efficiencies we can bring in house to absorb it.
And then third and finally taking it to the customer base.
In terms of are we thinking about going on a more frequent timing basis I would say 3 price increases in calendar year 2010 will be indicative of a willingness to go on a more frequent basis when the market demands us to do that.
And finally you're absolutely correct that our practice here has been to be careful about talking to our customers first and then advising the street of exactly what we've done by percentages on dates et cetera.
And at this point in time we've not announced any additional pricing for calendar year 2011.
We will be monitoring the raw material environment and if we feel that we need to do that we have shown in the past a discipline and the courage to get out and take the appropriate pricing when we need to.
In terms of whether we're leading or following that's never been a concern or a thought for us.
Again it's really driven on where we specifically are in our raw material basket issue.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then one follow-up on TiO2 supply and availability.
And I kind of understand the industry is running close to 100% operating rates now even in a period with demand especially in North America for architectural coatings still way below prior peaks.
Can you comment on your ability to continue to get TiO2 supply if we were to have a sharp rebound in demand? It doesn't seem like it's coming in 2011 but you guys just being one of the bigger ones in the industry I think you'd be okay.
But how firm are those contracts? I know you're having discussions.
Yes I think Sean's comment on the notion of a contract with these suppliers that really isn't perhaps the right way to think about it.
However I would tell you that we have great confidence and comfort that the titanium dioxide that we need get through this year is in good shape.
No availability concerns.
And beyond this year? A little out...
That's a little further out than we have -- our relationships our negotiations with these suppliers I would expect that these folks will be able to keep pace with us for the foreseeable future.
Okay.
Thanks for taking my question.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Greg Bernard [ph] of UBS.
Say I was wondering if you would comment on the game plan to get the margins up on these -- the acquisitions that you went through 2010.
Several times in the call you mentioned their contribution to revenue and then their contribution to EBITDA was quite disproportionate.
So I mean are you expecting improvement with the market? Is there some self-help programs that you're going to do? Could you walk me through that a little bit please? Yes I think what we've mentioned in the past when you look at this wood business this wood coatings business the product finishes we lump Sayerlack we lump -- when we look at this business we talk about Inchem Becker and Sayerlack acquisitions over the last few years.
And over time we think that we've looked at the infrastructure and we've looked at the type of sales they're making through these facilities and we think that most of it is wood but there's some opportunities for other substrates whether that be plastic or metal.
And when we -- as we do a few more acquisitions when you take a look at some of the other things that we've done over Europe we think that over time we're going to be able to put more products through these plants and we're going to get the sales up.
The gross profit percents may not grow dramatic never get to the exact position where we are in our core but we think they -- it will run at a lower SG&amp;A as a percent of sales and eventually we can get up the margins.
What we've talked about is that when we do an acquisition in the United States when you think about Duron MAB Columbia even smaller ones like VHT over time we can do those relatively quickly.
We're just start hitting the margins up 12 to 15 months.
What we've said is our game plan is going to be a little bit longer because we don't have the other assets in Europe or Southeast Asia that will do it.
So we think a little -- it's going to take us a little more time probably almost double the 15 months that it takes us inside the United States but eventually we'll get there.
Okay.
There are no restructuring options that could accelerate that process? Yes there is restructuring opportunities Greg and we were less than a year into these acquisitions and there's all kinds of integration activities underway and consolidations and those will continue to run for a while.
And typically when you first undertake those there's a cost associated with them but you would see the lift in the backside of it.
So we're still very optimistic about these acquisitions.
They're performing ahead of our expectations at this point in time and they will be a contributor.
Okay.
Thank you very much all.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to hand the floor back over to Mr.
Wells.
Thanks Jackie.
I'd like to close today by reminding you that our annual financial community presentation is scheduled for Thursday May 12 at the Waldorf Astoria in Midtown Manhattan.
If you have not signed up but would like to attend there's still time.
Send me an e-mail at rjwells@sherwin.com and I'll reply with a link to our registration site.
We'd love to see you there.
Now thanks again for joining us this morning and thank you for your continued interest in Sherwin-Williams.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining the Sherwin-Williams Company's review of the second quarter 2011 financial results and expectations for the third quarter and full year.
With us on today's call are Chris Connor Chairman and CEO; Sean Hennessy Senior Vice President Finance and CFO; Allen Mistysyn Vice President Corporate Controller; and Bob Wells Senior Vice President Corporate Communications and Public Affairs.
This conference call is being webcast simultaneously in listen-only mode by Vcall via the Internet at www.sherwin.com.
An archived replay of this webcast will be available at www.sherwin.com beginning approximately 2 hours after this conference call concludes and will be available until Wednesday August 10 2011 at 5:00 p.m.
Eastern time.
This conference call will include certain forward-looking statements as defined under U.S.
federal securities laws with respect to sales earnings and other matters.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A full declaration regarding forward-looking statements is provided in the company's earnings release transmitted earlier this morning.
After the review of second quarter results we'll open this discussion to questions.
I'll now turn the call over to Bob Wells.
Thanks Claudia.
In order to allow more time for questions we've provided balance sheet items and other selected information on our website at sherwin.com under Investor Relations second quarter press release.
Summarizing our overall company performance for second quarter 2011 versus second quarter 2010.
Consolidated net sales increased $211.7 million or 9.9% to $2.35 billion due primarily to selling price increases across all segments acquisitions completed in the past 12 months and improved sales by our Global Finishes Group.
Acquisitions increased net sales by 5.1% in the quarter and favorable currency translation rates increased consolidated net sales 1.7%.
Consolidated gross profit dollars increased $50.9 million for the quarter to $1 022.7 million.
Gross margin decreased 200 basis points to 43.4% of sales from 45.4% in the second quarter last year.
Selling general and administrative expenses for the quarter increased 9.3% to $755.6 million.
As a percent of sales SG&amp;A decreased to 32.1% in the second quarter this year from 32.3% last year.
Interest expense for the quarter was $11.7 million a decrease of $14.6 million compared to second quarter last year.
Consolidated profit before taxes in the quarter decreased $2.2 million or just under 1% to $257 million.
Our effective tax rate in the second quarter this year was 30.3% compared to 29.9% in the second quarter of 2010.
For the full year 2011 we expect our effective tax rate to be in the low 30% range compared to last year's rate of 31.8%.
Consolidated net income decreased $2.6 million to $179.1 million from $181.7 million in the second quarter of 2010.
Net income as a percent of sales was 7.6% compared to 8.5% in the second quarter last year.
Diluted net income per common share for the quarter increased to $1.66 per share from $1.64 per share in 2010.
Looking at our results by operating segment.
Sales for our Paint Stores Group in the second quarter 2011 increased 4.3% to $1.3 billion.
Comparable store sales or sales by stores opened more than 12 calendar months increased 4%.
The increase in sales for the segment was due primarily to selling price increases implemented during the past year and improved domestic architectural paint sales to DIY customers residential repaint contractors and property management contractors.
Regionally in the second quarter our Southwestern division led all divisions followed by Midwestern division Southeastern division and Eastern division.
Sales by all 4 Paint Stores divisions increased in the second quarter compared to last year.
Paint Stores Group segment profit for the quarter decreased 2.5% to $206.6 million from $212 million in the second quarter last year.
And segment margin decreased to 15.9% from 17% last year due primarily to continuing raw material cost increases that were only partially offset by selling price increases.
Turning to our Consumer Group.
Sales in the second quarter decreased 8.4% to $375.6 million due primarily to the loss of a portion of a paint program with a large retail customers that was partially offset by selling price increases.
Segment profits for the Consumer Group decreased 23.9% in the quarter to $61.4 million.
Segment profit as a percent of external sales decreased to 16.3% from 19.7% in the same period last year due primarily to higher raw material costs that again were only partially offset by selling price increases and lower volume throughput in our manufacturing and distribution operations.
For our Global Finishes Group sales in U.S.
dollars increased 39.5% to $678.9 million in the quarter due primarily to acquisitions selling price increases higher paint sales volume and favorable currency translation rate changes.
In the quarter acquisitions increased Global Finishes Group net sales by 22.5% and favorable currency translation rate changes added 5.9% to net sales in U.S.
dollars.
Second quarter segment profit increased 15.3% to $46.1 million due primarily to higher sales volumes and currency translation.
Favorable currency rate changes increased segment profit by $3.3 million in the quarter and acquisitions had no significant impact on segment profit.
As a percent of net external sales Global Finishes Group segment profit was 6.8% in the quarter compared to 8.2% last year due primarily to gross margin dilution from acquisitions.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Our total debt on June 30 2011 was $1 224 900 000 including total short-term borrowings of $571.1 million.
Total debt on June 30 2010 was $908.6 million.
Our cash balance at the end of the quarter was $71.6 million compared to $48.4 million at the end of second quarter last year.
Total borrowings to capitalization were 41.2% at the end of the quarter versus 37.2% at the end of the second quarter of 2010.
Long-term debt to capitalization was 22% at the end of the second quarter this year compared to 29.1% last year.
In the second quarter 2011 we spent $42 million on capital expenditures.
Depreciation expense was $37.5 million and amortization expense was $6.7 million.
For full year 2011 we anticipate capital expenditures for the year will be approximately $150 million to $160 million.
Depreciation will be about $150 million and amortization will be about $30 million.
Finally I will conclude my remarks for the quarter with a brief update on the status of our lead pigment litigation.
In the California public nuisance suit discovery has commenced and will take place over the next 8 to 10 months after which the parties will again have the opportunity to bring dispositive motions based on the evidence that comes out of that process.
A September 2012 trial date has been set by the judge and as it now stands the case will be tried to a jury in Santa Clara County.
We are still awaiting a decision from the Mississippi Supreme Court in the Gaines case.
The court heard our appeal of that $7 million verdict on April 19 and the decision could come at any time.
That concludes our review of the results for the second quarter of 2011.
So I'll turn the call over to Chris Connor who will make some general comments and highlight our expectations for third quarter and full year.
Chris? Thanks Bob.
And good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us today.
With one important exception the second quarter turned out very much as we expected.
Domestic paint sales volumes were down modestly from second quarter of 2010 due to the loss of a portion of our business with Wal-Mart and a tough second quarter 2010 comparison for our Paint Stores Group in the domestic architectural market.
As expected our Global Finishes Group delivered solid volume growth across all product lines.
Revenue from the acquisitions we completed last year came in on budget and we continue to make good progress in implementing the price increases we announced over the past 3 quarters.
As a result our consolidated sales for the quarter finished comfortably in the middle of our guidance range of plus 8% to 13%.
Likewise our SG&amp;A spending was also on budget for the quarter both in dollars and as a percent of sales.
Interest expense was down year-over-year as expected and our tax rate for the quarter was comparable to last year.
The one line on our second quarter P&amp;L that didn't go quite as we expected was gross profit.
A portion of the 200 basis point gross margin contraction we recorded was due to dilution from acquisitions which was no surprise but the frequency and magnitude of raw material cost increases in the quarter particularly in titanium dioxide continued to outpace our ability to recoup in the short term.
In our last earnings call I've made mention of the impact of higher raw material costs would likely get worse before they got better.
At that time we predicted that the coatings industry would experience average annualized year-over-year raw material price inflation in the mid-teens for all of 2011.
Over the past 3 months we have revised our internal raw material cost projections 3x.
We now believe our year-over-year raw material increase in the high teens to low 20% range is more realistic.
As we've discussed in the past when raw material costs rise we have a duty to our customers to push back on our suppliers to avoid or postpone these increases if failing that to focus internally in ways to offset higher raw material costs.
But the rate of increases we've seen over the past 6 months have overwhelmed these efforts and left us with few options.
In early June again we announced additional price increases in the high single-digit range across most of our product lines.
Although we are in the early stages of implementing these increases they should help to offset the raw material cost increases we incurred in the second quarter.
And not surprisingly price realization in our Paint Stores Group is running ahead of our other segments.
The raw material environment is also affecting our management of working capital.
The change in our working capital in the first half of 2011 increased $177 million and total working capital rose to 14.9% of sales.
Approximately $90 million of this increase went to fund working capital requirements of our acquisitions.
Backing out the working capital from acquisitions our core working capital increased to 14.4% of sales from 12.3% last year.
This was primarily the result of higher raw material costs in working process and finished goods inventory combined with concerted effort to build inventory ahead of raw material price hikes as well as protect against potential material shortages.
In the first 6 months of 2011 we generated $108 million in net operating cash which was down from the first half of last year due primarily again to the working capital increase.
Although respectable in this environment first half net operating cash is below the level we have achieved in recent years we remain confident that over the long-term the company is capable of generating net operating cash in the range of 10% of net sales.
We continue to invest the company's cash to purchase shares of our stock or treasury increase our cash dividend and expand our control distribution platform.
During the quarter we invested $41.7 million of the company's cash to buy back 0.5 million shares of our stock bringing the year-to-date total to 1.6 million shares.
At quarter end we have remaining authorization to purchase 4.15 million shares.
So far this year our Paint Stores Group has added 18 net new stores 11 of which were opened in the second quarter.
This brings our total store count in the United States Canada and the Caribbean to 3 408 stores compared to 3 360 one year ago.
Our plan calls for Paint Stores Group to add approximately 50 to 60 new store locations during the year while the number of store closings should fall back in line with our typical low to mid single-digit pace.
Our decision to continue to expand our controlled distribution platform throughout this cycle was affirmed by the latest wave of our annual painting contractor survey.
Survey results indicated that the market shift from contractor to DIY has abated and that contractors remain steadfastly loyal to the specialty paint store channel and increasingly to Sherwin-Williams.
Our store growth over the past 3 years combined with solid new product introductions marketing programs and sales initiatives have resulted in steady market share gains in most contractor segments and double-digit DIY sales growth in 6 of the past 8 quarters.
In Global Finishes Group the steady stream of acquisitions and related integration work often overshadows the outstanding results they're achieving in their core businesses.
Excluding acquisitions this team has delivered 5 consecutive quarters of double-digit sales growth in protective and marine coatings OEM product finishes automotive finishes and architectural coatings.
Our balance of sales outside of North America now stands just shy of 25%.
Looking ahead our second half volume comparisons should ease somewhat but raw material cost will continue to be a headwind of earnings.
We are cautiously optimistic that domestic architectural paint market volumes primarily in the repaint segments will turn positive over the balance of the painting season and global demand for most Industrial Coatings will continue to expand.
Our outlook for the third quarter of 2011 is for consolidated net sales to increase 10% to 15% compared to last year's third quarter.
With sales of this level we expect diluted net income per common share to be in the range of $1.55 to $1.75 per share compared to $1.60 per share in 2010.
For the full year 2011 we expect consolidated net sales to increase in the high single digits to low teens over the previous year.
With annual sales at that level we are updating our diluted net income per common share expectations to be in the range of $4.55 to $4.85 per share compared to $4.21 last year.
Again thanks to all of you for joining us this morning.
And now we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from John McNulty with Credit Suisse.
Just a couple of questions on the raw material front.
It looks like -- obviously TiO2 is still racing higher but it does look like propylene and some of the acrylic chain is starting to break down.
I guess I'm wondering how you're thinking about how those 2 balance each other out over the second half of the year? Well John first as you know we buy the majority of our raw materials in the first half.
So any release in propylene-based materials in the second half will have somewhat of a muted effect on our raw material basket for this year.
Secondly propylene has come down in recent weeks but only -- it's still above the level that it was in January 2011 if my data is correct.
So we've seen a hump this year but in terms of year-over-year relief it's got a ways to go I think before it gets down to the average cost for 2010.
Okay.
And then just one follow-up.
I know typically it seems like demand for coatings is relatively inelastic with regard to price.
But as you I guess indicated in your opening remarks it seems like we're in an unprecedented environment at this point in terms of how much you have to put through on price increases.
So are you seeing any push back at all that would say that maybe we will see a little bit more elasticity of demand around price? Or is still going to be inelastic but your customers are just kind of aggravated by it? John this is Sean Hennessy and we watch that question carefully.
We continue to look at other mix of products and so forth and the increase of raw materials is like you said unprecedented.
But we still believe over the long-term eventually we're going to be able to recover this raw materials in the marketplace and recover our gross margins.
Our next question is coming from the line of Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I'm just wondering if you could compare and contrast your price realizations in the Paint Stores segment versus your other distribution channels? I think when we take a look at it I guess we sort of mentioned before we think that the price realization covering those raw materials into the market we're in a better position inside the Stores Group versus the Global and the Consumer Group.
And that's why usually they start to recover the gross margin quicker and it's still going in that same kind of direction.
Just any thoughts regarding the magnitude of that differential how much more price you're able to get through your own stores versus big boxes for example? I think Kevin what we've talked about is when we announced our pricing we said that we'd take very similar pricing increase levels across all segments of the company.
And I think in terms of timing and ultimate implementation that's where we see a little bit of difference.
For the most part when we're all done with all of these they're all very close to each other in terms of the range.
Okay very good.
And then just a follow-up if I may on the volume side.
Chris how would you characterize industry volumes at this point for U.S.
architectural coatings on a year-over-year basis? In the first quarter Kevin we did get a look at some of the federal government information on architectural coatings for the United States.
It was down north of 4% in gallons.
We think the second quarter will also be soft as well when we get that data.
We've not seen that yet.
And as a result of that our gallon performance has outpaced that and we're confident that we'll gain share.
Our next question is coming from the line of Stephen East with Ticonderoga Securities.
If you look at the suppliers of TiO2 and I know DuPont's announced another price hike and I don't know when that starts to flow through.
But is there -- I know you all have looked at China a lot is there a way to move the Chinese manufacturers from low-grade to high-grade? And if so how long does that process take et cetera? Stephen we have a lot of work being done right now in our industry and certainly here at Sherwin on that very subject.
There are a number of what heretofore has been left a great titanium suppliers that are rapidly working to get their quality levels up.
We have quite a bit of that material in various stages of testing both in laboratories as well as in manufacturing facilities and time will tell.
China is one of the locations Eastern Europe is the other.
And I think at price levels where they are today for titanium we're seeing far more interest in capacity coming onstream and development happening.
Is this more Chris a 2012-type event? I think you're starting to see it trickle into our products right now.
It's just not going to be a substantial enough volume to make much of a difference in offsetting the increases that we've been talking about now in the low 20% range.
Okay.
And then switching gears a little bit.
The general demand picture looking at domestically residential versus commercial and then if you look at the global demand versus the U.S.
I'd say that architectural demand in the quarter just completed was trending positively throughout the quarter.
April was difficult.
Weather across the United States was not favorable and the exterior house painting season May wasn't much better.
We began to see some nice performance in June and that's continuing as we go forward.
We made the comment on our call just recently that we thought that the second half of the year we'd see better volume comparisons in the domestic architectural businesses.
Likewise the Global businesses have been doing terrific and we've been seeing strong double-digit gains in architectural and OEM in automotive all the things we've commented on.
So U.S.
is lagging that and we think the second half will be better.
Okay I appreciate that.
One last quick question.
Administrative your loss dropped pretty sharply.
How should we look at that over this year and next year? Yes I think when you take a look at the administrative loss we're -- year-to-date we're down right around $13 million.
Our interest was down $15 million a year ago.
We did expense -- we brought in some hard year notes so we expensed the warrants.
We have a smaller tranche of that in the fourth quarter.
We think that administrative expense the remainder of the year will be down this year probably slightly less than what the effect of those 2 are.
And then probably next year taking a look at it we'll start growing that again probably a little bit slower than sales.
Our next question is coming from P.J.
Juvekar with Citigroup.
You kept opening new stores in the downturn.
So 2 questions.
First is this a contrarian strategy that when the upturn comes you'll have more stores? And then secondly are these new stores more DIY friendly? Yes I think obviously P.J.
we're expecting an upturn and mathematics would indicate that we absolutely will have more stores when that begins to happen.
Not only just in a gross number for our count but also in the comparison to our competitors.
As we've commented the gap between us and the remaining specialty paint store operators is widening so that will continue.
As we've also commented in the past P.J.
we have a number of different types of stores beginning with the neighborhood paint stores that we're most noted for which would in fact be aimed at servicing the DIY customer as well.
All the way up to store locations that are in more industrial locations to service professional painting contractor needs.
Various markets have needs for different types of stores at different times.
I don't think we're opening any more of a percentage of our stores towards this DIY market that we have in the past.
Having said that the ratio of these neighborhood paint stores or these more industrial stores is probably 80% to 90% of our stores fall in that category as with our new store count this year also be in that 80% to 90% would be focused on DIY as well as servicing the residential paint contractors.
Okay.
And then secondly I think your annual price increases in your store's group that was announced was between 15% and 20% over the last 8 to 12 months? Over the last 3 price increases consolidated? Yes if you combine all those.
Yes.
How much of that do you think actually is stock? I know it takes time for you to get to all the pricing.
Yes when we take a look at it -- again in April one of those did fall off.
June we did put another price increase out there.
So a little bit of a timing and differential.
But over the long-term we still believe we're going to get between 70 and 75 of these.
Last December we're 2 quarters into that and when we look at that we usually after about 2 quarters we're in that 55% range and we are right there.
And eventually we're going to get all 75% of these.
Our next question is coming from Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Did gallonage grow in the stores business in the quarter year-over-year? No it didn't.
It did not grow.
It actually declined.
Is it sort of flat to down-ish? Or was it a little bit more than that? A little bit more than that.
A little bit more than that okay.
And Jeff when you take a look at last year this was in Chris opening comments in his remarks this was the quarter we expected if we were going to go against any quarter that was going to be difficult.
We had that new housing credit and that cost a lot of activity over a 2- 3-month period.
And we're going up against that.
Okay.
And in the quarter I think you took something like a $12 million pretax charge for the pay down of your debt.
What income items does that show up in income statement item? Interest expense.
If you take a look at our interest expense for the quarter Jeff.
I'm going to pull that out real quickly.
The interest expense in 2010 for the quarter was $26 340 000.
This year it was $11 747 000.
So in other words if we took out the charge your interest expense would've been 0? Probably the -- no no the $15 million was in 2010.
So that $26 million would've gone down to about $11.5 million last year.
And we're in $11.7 million in interest expense this year.
So the change is very small but the expense would not have gone down to 0.
I don't mean to belabor it but I thought that the number that you reported in the quarter was $11.7 million which includes the charge? No no no.
That is the amount of interest that we paid in the third -- for the 3 months ending June 30 2011.
The charge we took to bring back that -- to pay down that 100-year note occurred last year.
Forgive me.
And then lastly it sounds like the reason why you're a little bit more pessimistic about your earnings outlook this year has to do with the inflation in raw material costs.
When do you think your prices catch up to your raw materials? Yes I think it's absolutely raw materials Jeff.
I mean we're feeling very good about most of the segments of the company in the way that they're headed.
And we think were coming into a better second half on volumes.
We've been very clear with the investment community about the unabated run off in this raw material costs.
We took pricing again in June to the market.
And as Sean commented this price increase will go in as others have.
As you know it takes us a better part of 9 to 12 months to be fully implemented.
And at full implementation we'll have about 75% of it in.
So if all raw material cost increases stopped today we would be somewhere into the first half of next year to have our pricing catch up.
Our next question is coming from Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
The first one kind of hinges on what you touched on there Chris in the last question.
We're feeling comfortable with a lot of the end channels.
The guidance range for top line is still pretty wide when you back into it for second half of the year.
So just wondering how we should think about that.
And I guess how you guys are thinking about the contents of the guidance as to why you didn't tighten that up or if there's anything particularly concerning you that leaves that range pretty wide.
I think that we're still in a market that is clearly bouncing along the bottom on housing and new construction.
We have a pretty good view into the repaint activities that are going to be taking place.
And I think the range reflects the fact that there's still quite a bit of uncertainty in this market.
Okay.
The second just having to do with the exterior category realizing that hopefully is just a onetime drag.
Any way you can quantify what your exterior products did during the quarter just to get a sense of how big of an impact that was? We don't give that number out specifically but I think we have commented that in the quarter specifically given the impact of unseasonable weather pretty much across the entire eastern half the United States tornadoes hurricanes floods significant rain that our exterior gallons definitely lagged the quarter's performance.
And as we also commented we saw that start to rebound in May and June was a much better month for us.
Our next question is coming from Saul Ludwig with Northcoast Research.
In the admin section was there any reversion of any accrual for incentive comp given your more modest full year outlook? No.
And I think when we take a look at it our compensation this year is up modestly.
We do have the Global Finishes Group and some other segments that are doing very well with the company.
So we're still accruing at the same levels Saul.
Okay.
And then I noticed the environmental you actually had a credit.
It's sort of very unusual.
How should we think about that a why a credit and how should we think about environmental going the rest of the year? I think when you take a look at it Saul for the first 6 months we were at -- the environmental was $4 650 000 last year was $4 722 000 so relatively flat.
We think that environmental for the year is going to be flat or just up slightly.
I would tell you it's timing.
We've done a pretty good job of selling a couple of different older facilities and we just had some environmental accrued for some of that then we ended up reversing that accrual in that quarter.
But for the full year you can see us right on with last year and we're going to be flat to up slightly.
Yes gross margins you commented were down 200 basis points.
And given your more favorable outlook for volume in the back end of the year and the price increases would you still expect gross margins to be down but not as bad as the 200 basis points drop or do you think they could be comparable to where you were a year ago? Yes.
I think when you take a look at it Saul when we look at the company in total and you look at some of the effects of the acquisitions and the rapid rise of raw materials we've constantly talked about a range of 44% to 47%.
I think that when you look at where we are in the short-term we still think long-term we're going to get that 44% to 47%.
We think that with the effects of the acquisitions and with the rising raws in the short term we might be in a 43% to 46%.
And so I think that this year if I was putting a forecast out there which we're not but I would you're probably looking more at the lower end of the 43% to 46%.
And then the final question.
You've always said that these price increases take 9 to 12 months to get fully implemented.
Could you just reeducate us? Why does it take so long? Yes let me do that Saul.
If you look at the effect of the pricing in the first quarter we are getting a pretty good jump on these things and we see quite a bit of it in there.
As you know we honor our price commitments on quotes that we've given to professional painting contractors industrial coating segments et cetera.
Particularly when you take pricing at this time of year in the middle of the paint season you've got a lot of jobs that have been quoted and we stand behind those.
So that's why you see a tail on these things it just takes a little longer.
And then just a final question.
The volume decline that you experienced in the consumer sector looks like it could have been about 15%.
To what extent was that all Wal-Mart? Or was there also a decline in the non-Wal-Mart business and should we expect similar declines in the balance of the year as you anniversary the Wal-Mart business? Yes when we take a look at that it wasn't 100% Wal-Mart.
When we take a look at the business outside of Wal-Mart the Wal-Mart is performing just like we thought it was going to be.
But in the first quarter I think we talked about -- I know we talked about the timing of shipments of some larger retailers and they were positive for us.
So when we look at the total year-to-date our consumer is just about flat x Wal-Mart.
And I think when we look at the total year except for Wal-Mart we think it's going to be right around that range.
Our next question is coming from Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP</strong> Chris just wanted to clarify a few volume issues.
I noticed that the DOC was out yesterday revising down both 2010 and the first quarter.
I think they got to a more meaningful realistic 1.4% rise last year and then down 3% in the first quarter.
So my question would be were you down more than 3% in the second quarter given that the weather exacerbated some of last year's government stimulus comps? And for the full year I noticed you said you'd be up in the second half but would you still expect full year industry volumes to be flat or up? And then finally on your own volume initiatives I know you talked in the past about the potential for maybe making inroads into a big box.
Just wondered if you could update us on any of those activities.
First of all the government data Don that is absolutely correct.
We've commented in the past that we have to be slightly suspect of this information because it does get revised and very much appropriate this time revised significantly downwards.
You referenced the 3% first quarter decline.
We actually saw 4.2% in the data that we were looking at and we think that's probably pretty close and certainly more accurate than what we were seeing from them last year.
And as we also commented our gallon declines were not at that level even with the comment that Sean just did with the last caller regarding the impact on the consumer segment.
So our expectations are that in the second half of this year when the comparisons get easier because we also commented that the second quarter last year was a positive gallon quarter for us and not so much in third and fourth we expect that we're going to have gallon flat to up and that we're going to be outpacing the industry over that period of time.
Regarding our opportunities as a big box customer we've also been very consistent for a long period of time to advise both the major big box players as well as a number of smaller regional ones are all customers of ours and we have an ongoing concerted calling effort in there.
And we would welcome the opportunity at the right time with the right brand to play a role in there.
And we have nothing further to comment on that at this point in time.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up on inventory.
You mentioned that you built inventory but it's not sequentially.
Dollar inventory was relatively flat.
Just wondering if you can talk about -- and I imagine as you said too it was inflated by higher prices of raws and finished goods.
So what exactly went on with inventory? Were you continuing to build in Q2 ahead of second half raw material increases? Yes.
When we talked about this and we look at the second quarter our dollars were up as you said somewhat due to the raw materials.
They're relatively flat.
We actually built most of this inventory on a comparison basis in the first quarter.
This past quarter we maintained it relatively flat but it's still higher than we were last year.
And we usually start seeing it start to come down in the second quarter but that's not what happened in the second quarter here.
The next question is coming from John Roberts with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> A little hard to tell how high you can get prices before you affect demand but I think you commented in the past that your highest price paints were the best sellers.
There's some sort of comfort that you haven't reached the limit yet.
Is that still the case? Yes John.
I think the elasticity of pricing and demand is obviously something we watch extremely closely.
We've commented in the past that through all these pricing activities we've taken over the past decade that we very carefully watch the mix inside the company and are continuing to experience favorable or at least steady mix even with the pricing that we've had to take.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then secondly how is the HGTV roll out going? Have you gotten early signs on whether is it impacting store traffic like you thought it would and your ability to maybe upsell to customer when they come in? Yes we're very excited about this program.
It was officially launched in June.
And in preparation for that it had started to show up in the stores as early as April and May as we were getting material and point of purchase displays sent in ahead of time.
I can tell you that through the first full month as well us a little bit of a pre-support it's on budget and doing well.
July is tracking much stronger than June as we're now starting to see the advertising kick in.
The HGTV programming as well as our own outreach to their database of followers has been robust and terrific.
And we're seeing great foot traffic in the stores intrigued with the whole color offering and the idea.
To your point there is some upselling happening as we would expect as the customers get in and understand that there are higher quality product choices.
So I would say that from our perspective we're pleased with the early signs.
And it's tracking exactly as we had expected.
Our next question is coming from Robert Koort with Goldman Sachs.
This is Brian Maguire on for Bob.
Just had a follow-up question on the inventory build and some of the pre-volume that you've been doing that you mentioned.
Can you kind of quantify the benefit you got or you think you got on that or how much worse might margins have been without that pre-buying.
No we don't have any kind of a metric that I can give you.
I think that it's all in our forecast but we specifically haven't done like a PPV on pre-buying.
Okay.
And then just on the HGTV another follow-up question on that.
Was there a significant SG&amp;A spending in there in the quarter or will it be a little bit higher in the third quarter than it was in the second quarter? Yes we had some modest increases in advertising expense and some merchandising not significantly.
I think that was all embedded in the SG&amp;A which was under control.
And we would expect that to remain the case for the rest of the year Brian.
Okay.
And then just on couponing or discounting have you had to step up your level of discounting and couponing to get people into the stores? We don't do couponing per se but the paint industry including Sherwin has always used promotional activity dollars and percentage off to drive traffic and sales particularly during the height of the paint season.
As we commented on the early part of the call 6 of the last 8 quarters we've had strong double-digit DIY sales gain through our stores.
And so I would say that this goes back about 2 years ago where we started to be a little bit more aggressive with our promotional schedule.
Those have continued pretty much at the same level over that cycle and it's helping drive additional traffic to our stores.
Okay.
Then just one last one for Sean.
The tax rate it's come in -- I think it's averaged about 29% in the first half.
Is that still a good run rate for the back half or.
.
.
We think it's slightly higher than that.
Still in the low 30s but just some timing of some of discrete items brought it down to that 29% but the second half would be slightly higher.
But lower than last year's kind of 33%? Yes.
And back to the -- back on the promotional activity Brian I would be remiss if I didn't tell you we're having our biggest sale of the year this weekend so stop on by.
Our next question is coming from Matt McGinley with ISI Group.
In the SG&amp;A dollar growth you had in the first half you were up about $142 million.
How should we think about that growth into the back half of this year because a lot of that I think is from acquisition.
Does that rate fall off significantly or do the dollars kind of increase at that rate? Yes I think the third quarter we're still going against an acquisitions.
September we're fully annualized on those.
I think that you'll see some fall off but it won't call it dramatic.
And then we have this Leighs coming in but that's not that dramatic.
Okay.
And then as a quick follow-up on the gross margin decline you experienced the 200 basis points.
How much of that was driven by the acquisitions versus raw material cost increases? It definitely was affected negatively by the acquisitions but we really don't break that out.
Okay.
And then one last one.
On the revolver that you issued the 8-K on last week.
Can you give any commentary on why you increased the capacity from $500 million to $1 billion? And are you still intending to issue CP in the future or...
I'll take it in reverse.
We definitely are definitely going to be continuing to stay in the commercial paper.
Right now the low end we're paying less than 25...
[Technical Difficulty] It's been a pretty good financing for the company.
We took the opportunity -- really we wanted to be $1 billion but 15 18 months ago we did the last one the prices were so high and we still had the letter of credit CDSs.
We still had $750 million of those.
Now those will start -- one came out in June another one will come out next year.
So we thought with the prices coming down and we actually were able to take our $500 million up to a $1 billion with lower costs.
So as those come off we felt it was important to have it at $1 billion.
Our next question is coming from Dmitry Silversteyn with Longbow Research.
A lot of mine have been answered but I do have a couple of follow-ups if I may.
I think when we're talking about -- when you talk about inventories and why is it going up there is some pre-buying you had price increases but then you also mentioned that you were trying to address or ensure that there were no shortages of material.
I mean last year we had the acrylic resin problems.
What raw materials are in short supply this year? Is it just TiO2 being tight or...
Yes there is -- TiO2 is tight for sure.
And I think it's the year-over-year working capital impact of having that material versus the shortage we had last year that was impacting it more than any concerns we have about inability to get raws.
Got you.
So in other words last year the inventory was a little bit lower because you couldn't get the stuff that you needed.
This year it's more normal? That's correct.
Okay I understand that.
Second question on the -- you kind of provided some updates on how the Global businesses is doing particularly in Latin America.
How are your acquisitions in Europe doing the 2 Wood Coatings businesses you acquired in terms of where you are in integration learning about the end market and perhaps getting other products into those plants beyond wood coatings.
Can you update us on what's going on in Europe for you? Yes I'd be happy to Dmitry.
And I would say that both of the major wood acquisitions we made in Europe last year of Becker Acroma and Sayerlack are performing well.
They're on pro-forma budget for the company.
We are beginning the early stages as you pointed out of expanding from wood coatings into some of the other Industrial OEM finishes.
That the company has good technology and good share position in the United States.
And the teams that we have on the ground in Europe are excited to have additional new product technology and opportunity to sell.
So all that's going well.
I would comment further that as Sean has commented in his answers to the gross margin questions that this is an area where we need to improve.
We've seen a little bit of a gross margin erosion with these businesses.
I think that's not to be unexpected at a time of an acquisition.
We have larger customers with this business as opposed to the types of customers we enjoy through the control distribution in the Stores business.
And we've been a little more careful with pricing there until such time as we calm the waters and all the changes that are affiliated with the acquisition.
Our expectations are that the management teams are doing great.
We have very much been able to retain the leadership that we had hoped to keep.
And we're moving forward to fix and address some of these pricing issues to get us back on track.
Overall I'd say that the company is very pleased with the way that these acquisitions are tracking.
That's very good.
And then one final question.
I'm sure you couldn't help but notice that there's a lot of M&amp;A activity happening in the chemical space right now including some fairly large deals for public companies.
How do you look at the M&amp;A landscape? I mean I know you try to be incremental more than transformational but given the cost of debt and given your strength of the balance sheet given some of the struggles you're having with the architectural space market which may or not be solved in the next few years.
Has your outlook and appetite for acquisitions changed? I'd say it's been constant through the cycle Dmitry.
We've done 4 major acquisitions in the last 12 15 months.
We continue to be focused and disciplined about the types of businesses that we think would make sense for us to look for.
We are talking to a number of interesting targets as we speak.
As you made mention Sean has done a terrific job of making sure company has access to all the capital we might need to do that.
And I think you should expect a very continual similar size deals that we've been doing in the past years to continue.
All right.
But we shouldn't wake up one morning and find out a transformational deal? Who knows? Our next question is coming from the line of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research Company.
Couple of things.
First of all the sales guidance in 3Q.
I think you're guiding sales to grow faster than 2Q and the full year sales guidance was increased from the prior guidance.
Can you just talk a little bit about why in the conviction that you're seeing anything in the business side that gives you that conviction? Well a couple of points there.
As we commented the comparisons get much more favorable for us going forward Eric.
We had the toughest comparison quarter that we've just come through in the second quarter relative to the first time homeowner tax credit program that really created a little blip of volume demand in 2010.
And then a corresponding falloff to that in the second half of the year which we don't expect to happen this year.
Also our own data would indicate that we're trending throughout this year in a better model.
We've talked about how April to May to June changed and then July is remaining strong.
So given the fact that we have a significant volume through that store's platform which really drive that number that's why we're guiding stronger.
And as well as Eric we do have a little more price in the second half of the year than we had in the second quarter.
And is that Sean the kind of the explanation for the full year increase that this price is at the core of that increase? Yes.
And then I don't know if you have any interest in helping us to understand the delta between April and May and June it looks like that the store volumes were down the store gallons were down perhaps 3 points in the quarter.
Can you give us any sense of how different April was relative to -- or April May relative or to June? You're right.
We don't have any interest in helping you with that.
My other question then the Global -- the acquisitions in the Global group I think you said they added roughly $90 million to sales and nothing to operating profit.
I was wondering if there were any thoughts if there's any expenses that were quarter-specific in nature for those businesses to make no money on those degree of sales and I guess especially the thoughts in the second half of those businesses to start to generate any degree of operating profit? I think there were some expenses I'll just say but I would not say that's the reason why at that level that $90 million level.
We did have some acquisition integration on the IT cost some IT cost and so forth but I won't hang my hat on that.
I would say it was more really due to the gross margin in some of these that it happened.
I think in the second half through the year they will be accretive.
But now that we have Leighs I think that the Leighs will probably offset where we're at.
So we're going to start to see accretion.
And at those -- $90 million quarters for those 2.
But Leighs will be a little -- will be dilutive although slightly higher than what they are right now in our forecast.
So that's what's going on with acquisition.
Our next question is coming from Jeremy Brunelli with Consumer Edge Research.
Just a quick question on gross margins across the segment.
In the 10-Q you usually give a pretty good commentary first quarter same-store groups were up Consumer Group up 700 bps and then Global Finishes down 320 and overlapping and I think easier comparison in Global Finishes and Consumer Group.
Can you give us any color around the magnitude of the gross margin decline across the segments? Yes.
We definitely will.
And in the queue we will have it.
So right here I will tell you that Global Finishes Group and Consumer were down 1.7 170 basis points for the quarter.
And I know that Stores Group was 1.4 140 basis points.
That takes stores on a year-to-date basis to 60 basis points decline.
And if we give me 10 seconds here I'll give you that number for Consumer and Global.
And Consumer will be down 70 basis points year-to-date.
And the Global Group will be down 220 basis points.
Great.
And then just a quick follow-up on DIY business.
You've in the past you talked about how there's a better margin differential from DIY to pro.
So the question is can you give us a sense or the magnitude of the differential? And then I know historically pro represents 85-ish of your sales coming out of your stores.
What is it kind of today? Is it much higher and should we continue to expect a benefit from that? Yes the mix in our stores remains very much skewed toward professional painting contractors.
Given the strength of the DIY recently we may have come off of the 8515 to maybe closer to an 8020 range but it's not dramatically different.
And the gross margin percentages our DIY business as we become a little more promotional are not substantially different than the kinds of margins we make on the residential repaint contractors et cetera.
So those kinds of mix changes are not impacting the margins near to the extent that the raw material prices are.
Our next question is coming from the line of Stuart Pulvirent with Merlin Securities [ph].
You've answered a lot of questions but maybe on volume I had 2 that are related.
One is how much of your bond goes to like federal state and local governments? And obviously with budgets maybe maintenance is being deferred? And second on the positive side we did mention some of these unfortunate disasters around the country but do you get a bounce once we -- everyone sort of collects their thoughts and starts rebuilding? Yes we do enjoy quite a bit of business with various government facilities both federal state and local across the country.
And as a percent of our sales it's not significant.
I don't know that number off the top of my head but it would be single digits at best.
In terms of the bounce on the backside of natural disasters that has typically been the case.
These particular tornadoes that were on the ground in the Southeastern part of the United States during April and May were really quite strong wide and lengthy periods of time.
It did more damage than a typical tornado would.
And so we would expect we see nice rebuilding activity in those communities.
Paint is the late cycle on that kind of construction so perhaps later this year or certainly early next year we'd expect to see some work from that.
Our next question is coming from Mike Shrekgast [ph] with Sinexus Capital [ph].
Can you guys talk about the professional pricing versus your do-it-yourself pricing? And when you offer these promotional events for do-it-yourself customers does that not have any impact on how you're selling to the professionals? Correct it does not.
And the reason being is that professionals buy every single day at various discount levels based on their size and volume.
And typically those prices are better than what the retail DIY customers would buy even on promotion.
Our next question is coming from Stephen East with Ticonderoga Securities.
Chris just a follow-up on the commercial versus residential.
Is commercial actually up year-to-date? And what type of trends are we seeing? And about how much of -- what percentage of your U.S.
business is commercial? Steven this is Bob.
Commercial new construction is down this year.
In square footage terms it's down high single digits year-to-date through June.
On the repaint side we've seen a little recent strength in property management but year-to-date gallon volume in the market in property management is slightly negative.
Okay.
All right.
And how much of that -- how much is commercial of your business? When we breakdown the market we talk about commercial or non-residential business being about 30% of the repaint market and closer to 40% of the new construction market.
And as a reminder today new construction in total represents in the low teens percentage of total gallon consumption.
So if new construction is 14% commercial would be about 40% of that.
And that would leave high 80s 85% 86% for repaint and non-residential will be 30% of that.
We would be skewed just a little more than the market toward non-residential.
Okay.
All right.
And then just DuPont's announcement this past week or so about TiO2 going up is that -- I assume that's something new.
It's not a regurgitation.
And is that -- how long would it take for you all to typically see that? Well you're right.
DuPont announcing titanium price increases is nothing new.
We've been hearing that for -- on a quarter-after-quarter basis for literally decades.
Obviously they have much more commitment to the enforcement of those price increases over the last couple of years.
Again we've been consistent with our communication to the street.
We've talked about the fact that the entire basket of raw material increases for the industry has been going up each quarter that we give you guidance we are now on the high teens low 20s.
The vast majority of that is in the titanium.
It remains to be seen what kinds of impact it will have going into 2012.
And we'll be commenting on that as we get closer to year end.
Our last question is coming from the line of John Roberts with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> You commented that gallonage was down for the quarter in North American Architectural? Was it down in June as well? That's hard to say John because you're talking about the industry right? Actually I was talking about you but however you want to answer it.
Yes I'll think we'll go with the industry.
We're not going to start giving -- we just don't give monthly buy-ins or really at all.
We're pretty sure for the industry with gallon volumes in the first quarter being down low to mid single-digits against a really weak first quarter '10.
The industry is going against a pretty strong second quarter '10.
It's very likely that gallon volume for the industry in architectural was down mid-single digits or more.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll now turn the floor back over to management for any closing remarks.
We'd like to thank you all once again for your participation on the call this morning.
As always I will be available over the balance of the day and week to take your follow-up questions.
We appreciate you joining us.
And thanks for your continued interest in Sherwin-Williams.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining the Sherwin-Williams Company's review of the third quarter 2011 financial results and expectations for the full year.
With us on today's call are Chris Connor Chairman and CEO; Sean Hennessy Senior Vice President Finance and CFO; Al Mistysyn Vice President Corporate Comptroller; and Bob Wells Senior Vice President Corporate Communications and Public Affairs.
This conference call is being webcast simultaneously in listen-only mode by Vcall via the Internet at www.sherwin.com.
An archived replay of this webcast will be available at www.sherwin.com beginning approximately 2 hours after this conference call concludes and will be available until Monday November 14 2011 at 5:00 p.m.
Eastern Time.
This conference call will include certain forward-looking statements as defined under U.S.
federal securities laws with respect to sales earnings and other matters.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A full declaration regarding forward-looking statements is provided in the company's earnings release transmitted earlier this morning.
After the review of third quarter results we will open the session to questions.
I will now turn the call over to Bob Wells.
Thank you Claudia.
As always in order to allow more time for questions we provided balance sheet items and other selected information on our website at sherwin.com under Investor Relations third quarter press release.
Summarizing overall company performance for the third quarter 2011 versus third quarter 2010 consolidated net sales increased $312.7 million or 14.4% to $2.48 billion due primarily to selling price increases acquisitions and improved organic volume growth by our Paint Stores Group and Global Finishes Group.
Acquisitions increased consolidated net sales 4.1% in the quarter and favorable currency translation rate changes added 1% to net sales.
Consolidated gross profit dollars increased $66.7 million to $1.04 billion.
Gross margin decreased 290 basis points to 41.8% of sales from 44.7% in the third quarter last year.
The decrease in gross margin was primarily due to higher year-over-year raw material costs and the dilutive effect of acquisitions completed during the past 12 months.
Selling general and administrative expenses for the quarter increased 8% to $760.2 million due primarily to incremental SG&amp;A from acquisitions higher service costs resulting from increased sales and currency translation rate changes.
As a percent of sales SG&amp;A decreased to 30.6% in the third quarter this year from 32.4% last year.
Interest expense decreased $858 000 compared to third quarter last year and consolidated profit before taxes in the quarter increased $4.9 million or 1.9% to $250.3 million.
Profit before tax as a percent of sales decreased to 10.5% from 11.8% last year.
Our effective tax rate in the third quarter this year was 30.9% compared to 31.4% in the third quarter of 2010.
For the full year 2011 we expect our effective tax rate to be in the low 30% range excluding any impact of the IRS settlement compared to last year's rate of 31.8%.
Consolidated net income increased $4.6 million to $179.9 million compared to $175.3 million in the third quarter of 2010.
Net income as a percent of sales declined to 7.2% from 8.1% in the third quarter last year.
Diluted net income per common share for the quarter increased 6.9% to $1.71 per share from $1.60 per share in 2010.
Acquisitions and favorable currency translations combined had no significant impact on diluted net income per common share in the quarter.
Looking at our results by operating segment sales for our Paint Stores Group in the third quarter increased 10.2% to $1.42 billion.
Selling price increases and improving domestic architectural paint sales volumes across most customer segments accounted for most of the increase in sales.
Comparable store sales that is sales by stores opened more than 12 calendar months increased 8.2% in the quarter compared to the third quarter last year.
Regionally in the quarter our Southwest division led the sales performance followed by Midwest division Southeast division and Eastern division.
Sales by all 4 Paint Stores divisions increased in the third quarter compared to last year.
Segment profit for the group increased $11.8 million or 5.2% to $236.9 million in the quarter as sales growth from selling price increases and volume improvement was partially offset by higher year-over-year raw material costs and selling general and administrative expenses.
Operating margin decreased to 16.7% from 17.5% in the third quarter last year.
Turning to our Consumer Group sales in the third quarter increased 3.3% to $351.6 million due primarily to selling price increases that were partially offset by the elimination of a portion of a paint program with a large retail customer.
Segment profit for the Consumer Group decreased $18.7 million or 31% in the quarter to $41 million due primarily to higher year-over-year raw material costs that were partially offset by selling price increases and reductions in selling general and administrative expenses.
Segment profit as a percent of external sales decreased to 11.7% from 17.5% in the same period last year.
For our Global Finishes Group sales in U.S.
dollars increased 31.2% to $714.4 million in the quarter due primarily to acquisitions selling price increases higher paint sales volume and favorable currency translation rate changes.
In the quarter acquisitions increased Global Finishes Group net sales in U.S.
dollars by 16.3% and favorable currency translation rate changes increased sales in U.S.
dollars by 3.2%.
Third quarter segment profit increased $11.6 million or 36.3% to $43.5 million.
Higher paint sales volume price increases good expense control and favorable currency rate changes were partially offset by higher raw material costs and the negative effect of acquisitions.
Currency rate changes increased segment profit by $3.6 million while acquisitions reduced segment profit by $2.5 million.
As a percent to external net sales segment profit increased to 6.1% in the quarter compared to 5.9% in the third quarter last year as selling price increases and higher sales volume outweighed the increase in raw material costs.
Turning briefly to the balance sheet.
Our total debt on September 30 2011 was $1.169 billion compared to $1.066 billion in the third quarter of 2010.
Our cash balance at the end of the quarter was $46 million compared to $64.9 million at the end of third quarter last year.
Total borrowings to capitalization were 41.7% at the end of the quarter versus 39.4% at the end of the third quarter 2010.
Short-term borrowings increased $162.9 million over third quarter last year to $517.5 million.
Long-term debt to capitalization was 23.2% at the end of the third quarter this year compared to 26.3% last year.
In the third quarter 2011 we spent $28 million on capital expenditures depreciation expense was $38 million and amortization expense was $10.1 million.
For the full year 2011 we anticipate capital expenditures will be approximately $150 million to $160 million depreciation will be approximately $150 million and amortization will be about $30 million.
I'll conclude my remarks for the quarter with a brief update on our status on Lead Pigment Litigation.
On September 8 2011 the Mississippi Supreme Court in an 8-0 decision overturned the jury verdict in the Gaines case and rendered judgment in favor of Sherwin-Williams.
Previously a jury had awarded the plaintiff $7 million for alleged injuries claimed to having resulted from ingesting Sherwin-Williams lead-based paint.
The plaintiff asked the court to reconsider its decision however we believe it is unlikely the court will change its unanimous ruling.
That concludes my review of our third quarter results so I'll turn the call over to Chris Connor who will make some general comments and highlight our expectations for the remainder of the year.
Chris? Thank you Bob.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us.
I think our third quarter results were encouraging in many respects and I'll elaborate more in a moment but first let me take a few minutes to address the 8-K we filed last night.
Following the market close yesterday we announced that we reached a settlement with the Internal Revenue Service regarding their audit of our employee stock ownership plan for the 2003 through 2009 tax years.
You may recall from the 8-K we issued back in May as well as the subsequent note in our second quarter 10-Q Sherwin-Williams received a notice of proposed adjustments from the IRS challenging certain ESOP-related federal income tax deductions and proposing substantial excise taxes and penalties.
The settlement announced yesterday fully resolves all IRS issues relating to federal and state income taxes including interest though will result in an after-tax charge totaling approximately $75 million or $0.72 per common share and a reduction in shareholders' equity of approximately $51.2 million both of which will occur in the fourth quarter.
These charges were not included in Sherwin-Williams' previous fourth quarter and full year 2011 earnings guidance.
Although we do not believe the deductions in question violated any tax laws we firmly believe this resolution is in the best interest of our shareholders.
This is a one-time charge that will increase our effective tax rate for the current year only and will not affect rates in future years.
Importantly this settlement avoids the potential for years of management distraction and eliminates future risk and uncertainty.
Third quarter 2011 was a record quarter for Sherwin-Williams.
Revenues of $2.48 billion make this the largest sales quarter in our company's 145-year history and $1.71 per share is an all-time high watermark for earnings per share in any quarter.
I think the most encouraging aspect of our results was the progress weve made in growing sales and volume.
After backing out acquisitions and favorable currency consolidated sales were up more than 9% in the quarter and volumes increased both sequentially and compared to last year.
All 3 segments reported higher year-over-year revenues and Paint Stores Group and Global Finishes Group delivered solid organic volume growth.
On our last call we've said we expected domestic market conditions to improve in the second half compared to the first and that market volume would likely turn positive.
Even assuming modest improvement in the market the sales and volume performance of our Paint Stores Group in the quarter is convincing evidence that our continued investments in new store openings and superior store staffing is translating into market share growth.
Our strategic investments outside North America are also bearing fruit.
For the third quarter and 9 months of 2011 our Global Finishes Group recorded positive volume growth across all lines of business.
SG&amp;A spending increased $56 million in the quarter however our core SG&amp;A expense net of acquisitions was up a little more than half that amount.
Most of this core increase supported new stores opened in the past 12 months.
The balance went towards maintaining staffing levels in existing stores and funding organic growth in our Global Finishes Group.
In total we reduced year-over-year SG&amp;A as a percent of sales by 180 basis points which partially offset the significant increase in raw material costs.
Our disappointment in the quarter is that we're still being impacted by the rapid increase in raw material costs.
The recent decline in petrochemical feedstocks such as propylene will provide some cost relief in the coming quarters.
However the pricing actions by the titanium dioxide producers are likely to continue for the balance of the year and in to 2012.
Despite our efforts to help offset these higher input costs including around the price increases that went into effect in early October the lag between raw material cost inflation and higher effective pricing has pressured our gross margin in the second and third quarters and will again in the fourth.
Implementation of our price increases is progressing as expected and we remain confident that we will ultimately close the gap on input costs but our margin results in the interim are nonetheless disappointing.
Although the input cost headwinds continue to suppress our earnings we managed working capital efficiently and generated strong net operating cash in the quarter.
In the third quarter we generated $338 million in net operating cash compared to $241 million in the third quarter last year bringing our 9-month net operating cash to $446 million.
The increase in the third quarter cash was primarily due to $100 million reduction in working capital.
Nine-month free cash flow net operating cash less CapEx and dividends was $233 million.
We continue to invest the company's cash to expand our control distribution platform complete appropriate acquisitions increase our dividend and purchase shares of stock for treasury.
During the quarter we bought back 2.64 million shares of our common stock in the open market at an average price of $74.26 bringing our year-to-date total to 4.24 million shares.
On October 19 last week our Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase authorization for an additional 20 million shares.
In the first nine months our Paint Stores Group added 31 net new stores 13 of which were opened in the third quarter.
This brings our total store count in the United States Canada and the Caribbean to 3 421 stores compared to 3 368 one year ago.
Our plan continues to call for Paint Stores Group at approximately 60 net new store locations during the year.
A number of store closings in the year will be more in line with our typical low to mid-single-digit pace.
On July 1 we completed the acquisition of Leighs Paints based in Bolton England.
Although relatively small in annual revenues Leighs brings some very important technology to our global protective and marine product lines.
Leighs is a market leader in intumescent or fire-protective coatings.
When applied to structural steel or concrete these coatings prolong the building structural integrity in a catastrophic fire which provides more time for evacuation.
Intumescent coating specifications are increasing globally and we have high expectations for this new addition to the Sherwin-Williams family.
While it appears that overall architectural demand in most market segments in the Americas and global demand for most industrial coatings should remain positive over the balance of the year raw materials will remain a challenge for the foreseeable future.
Our outlook for the fourth quarter 2011 is for consolidated net sales to increase 6% to 10% compared to last year's fourth quarter.
We expect fourth quarter diluted net income per common share to be in the range of $0.67 to $0.87 per share before the one-time charge of $0.72 per share relating to the IRS settlement all compared to $0.67 per share in 2010.
For the full year 2011 we expect consolidated net sales to increase in the low-teens percentage range compared to last year.
With annual sales at that level we are reaffirming our 2011 full year guidance for diluted net income per common share to be in the range of $4.65 to $4.85 per share before the IRS settlement or in a range of $3.93 to $4.13 per share due to the settlement compared to $4.21 per share earned in 2010.
Finally last week our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.365 per share up from $0.36 last year which completes our 33rd consecutive year of increased dividend.
Again I'd like to thank you for joining us this morning and now we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from the line of Stephen East with Ticonderoga Securities.
Research Division</strong> Chris if we look at the TiO2 outlook what you talked about I appreciate the commentary.
One what are you all seeing coming through the pipeline and two what type of alternatives do you all have? And I know we've talked about this in past quarters but are you to the point where there are other sources that can move the needle or different formulations that type of things? Yes I think we've commented Stephen that our expectations for the industry is that raw materials would finish for the year somewhere in the high teens the low 20% range.
Clearly titanium has been the driver primarily of that growth this year and we see numbers from other analysts in the range of around 40% year-over-year pricing in titanium.
I don't think much change is in this forecast relative to how the year tracks regarding those numbers.
2012 remain to be seen the amount of pricing but from my earlier comments you can see that we expect to be dealing with titanium price increases going into next year.
Sherwin-Williams our competitors and other raw material suppliers have all spoken about various replacement technologies but I think the reality is that our industry is going to be relying primarily on this important raw material for a long period of time to get to come [ph].
Research Division</strong> From a geographic perspective are you seeing alternatives in sourcing that could make a difference in 2012? Again I think we've talked publicly about some of the emerging titanium producers and technologies around the world and some of those are in fact winding their way into our operations.
But again I don't think there's substantial enough volumes to make a significant difference in the overall market environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the other question I have is on the consumer side.
Your margins got pushed down quite a bit.
Is this -- do you see it as a lack of pricing power or just really trailing having a much longer time in getting those pricing through? Yes Stephen.
This is Sean Hennessy.
Just talking about the consumer margins in the quarter one of the things that happened this year is we really changed the production plan and really front-loaded our production plan for the year which resulted in higher inventory in the first and second quarter.
And what happened in the third quarter is our inventory in this area came down.
It was reduced.
So usually you'll see that in the fourth quarter.
So what happens is that in the third quarter our inventory production plan was lower versus last year's third quarter so the operating margin was depressed in the third quarter.
And our fourth quarter margin will not drop sequentially at the same rate as last year's.
Couple other effects of that was the cash.
You saw as Chris made his notes cash was up over $100 million and that was a direct -- correlated exactly to the same issue.
Our next question is coming from the line of P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Research Division</strong> This is Dan Jester sitting in for P.J.
I just want to talk a little bit about the sort of segments of your business that are more industrial-focused like maybe product coatings or protective marine.
Have you seen any slowdown sort of given what we've seen in the broader economy over the past few months? No Dan those businesses are performing fine for the company.
They tend to be more at the higher end of the kind of volume numbers that we've been talking about.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then in terms of the price increase you announced in October could you just give us a sense of how large that is? And then looking back to the June price increase how much of that has been implemented and can you give us a trajectory for how you expect the rest of that price increase to go through? The October price increase was announced through our stores organization.
I think as the investment community know that's the one that we're usually the most transparent on.
The pricing was around 8% to 9%.
That's on top of pricing taken as you mentioned earlier in the year.
In fact this was the fifth price increase that we've taken in the last 20 months.
All told those 5 price increases cumulatively amount to just shy of around 30%.
Historically our net effective tax -- net effect of price increase has been in the 75% range of what we've gone out for.
This last price increase is off to a good start and tracking right in line with those past historic performances.
Our next question is coming from Bob Court with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is Brian Maguire on for Bob.
Just on that last question on the price increases one of your peers talked earlier this week about some price fatigue setting in with customers and you mentioned this is the fifth price increase in the last 20 months.
And I'd imagine those conversations get harder each time.
What are you kind of seeing in the channel maybe more in the consumer business than in your own stores? How are your customers downstream adjusting to all these and how much of the announced price increases do you expect to get going forward? Yes I'll take the first half of this and then I'll let Sean comment as well.
Clearly there's price fatigue.
There's price fatigue on our part as well dealing with the raw material cost pressures that keep coming in.
The frequency of the pricing activities that we've just talked about again as a reminder is through our stores organization so we don't take pricing as frequently to some of the other customer segments.
We tend to go in smaller increments and more frequently and I think as we've shared with the investment community over the years the unique business model that we have servicing professional painting contractors and through our own stores we strive [ph] a little better run the market for us to implement them.
Sean I know you got some thoughts as well.
Right.
I think we need to take a look at -- I'd just like to point out a couple of numbers.
If you look at the operating margins really in the stores group we were down 8/10 in the third quarter but for the 9 months we're 2/10 below last year.
I do think that there probably is some fatigue but I think that gives you some comfort that pricing is going through and we're managing through that.
And again when you take a look at the consumer margins as Steve asked earlier our margin year-to-date is down over 300 basis points.
But I think that's going -- again that was due to some timing of production and inventory.
By the end of the year I think that will be tremendously closer than it is today.
So I think those numbers give you some kind of comfort that we're really starting -- we're still able to have pricing power in the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a follow-up on the inventories.
How are your levels now compared to kind of normal seasonality and would you expect to be doing some more prebuying or differentiated normal seasonal patterns on your inventory build if you expect raw materials to continue going up? Is there any thought of maybe taking advantage of the seasonal slowdown in the industry and building some inventories in the fourth or first quarters? Yes finished goods inventories when you go back 2 years really because last year we had different kinds of finished goods inventory problems.
But if you look at it compared to 2 years ago we feel pretty good about our finished goods inventory.
With the reduction in the third quarter we're probably real close to where we should be.
Raws on the other hand are slightly higher and I think you pointed that out.
And I would suggest that we're going to run high until we start to see the raw materials turn.
And that's how we're managing that.
But I think you're going to see raw materials higher in the short term.
Our next question is coming from Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to get at little bit more into the timing of the progression of gross margin.
If you look in the quarter how much of the sequential 100 bps gross margin was the production issue? Was that basically all of the issues Sean? No but it was the majority when you look at that 100 basis points.
And I think that what we look at in the third quarter was -- that's really going to be the lowest gross margin that we'll report on a quarterly basis this year.
And we actually think that sequentially you'll see our gross margin rise in the fourth quarter.
And If I was to give you a forecast we're at 42.7.
Year-to-date I think we'll get close to the low end of the range that we talked about the 43 to 46.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And the fourth quarter qualitatively that progression improvement is that coming from the production shift or does it actually come from the raw material pricing playing out the way it should? I would say it has a lot to do with the pricing.
As Chris has mentioned we just put a price increase the first week in October in stores but we are going to have some positive because it's going to basically -- we had to take the positives or the negatives some time with the production plan.
We took it in the third quarter versus fourth last year so that will help us in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And if I can have just one more question on the acquisition I think in the past you talked about adding maybe $450 million in total sales but we lost a little money in the quarter related to acquisitions.
Is that $450 million still the right number? Is there a sign of any volume shifts in Europe in particular that should be aware of? No that's a good number Greg.
We're tracking right on it.
I think the loss Greg really when you take a look at it came from the acquisition we completed in the third quarter the acquisition the inventory step-up and so forth.
Really 100% of the loss actually came from the lease acquisitions that Chris mentioned during his comments.
Our next question is coming from Chuck Cerankosky with North Coast Research.
Chris when you look at the pricing resistance issue a little more can you differentiate between how architectural contractors are dealing with paint price increases versus industrial contractors especially in North America? I don't think there's a lot of difference between the 2 Chuck.
I think we're blessed with a customer in both of those segments who appreciates quality materials.
They're loyal to that have a higher labor component to a finished job and just the material cost.
For the most part pricing actions across both those segments are tracking as they have historically for us.
Okay.
And then following up on the volumes could you talk about in Paint Stores and Global where you saw the volume increases which end markets were strongest and can you be a little more quantitative about how high volumes did increase? Yes I'll give you kind of a color on the segments and customer pieces then I'll let Sean comment a little bit on just to get you closer in kind of the numbers.
In terms of the stores business as you know we break out DIY as one big group.
Within the contractor segment we break out pretty much across all the other pieces parts.
And as we've been commenting for some time the residential repaint activities are the strength of the market.
We've seen that.
Obviously DIY is essentially a residential repaint market in and of itself but the painting contractor segment that's focused on that has continued to show some signs of strength for the company.
We were pleased to see some growing signs of vital strength in the other segments.
We've commented earlier in the year regarding the importance of property management.
We're actually seeing some of our commercial repaint activity pick up as well and the protective and marine has been fairly strong for the company throughout the year.
The one segment obviously that remains a little bit of a lagger would be in that new residential area.
Right.
And when you look at the stores group we were up 10.2% for the quarter comp store growth about -- we were up 8.2% Chuck.
When you take a look at it we feel pretty good about where we are with the selling prices.
But as Chris mentioned as some of the segments have changed you're starting to see not a mix change by customer.
Customers they're not changing the mix but because of that it does change how much the average selling price will increase just because of different bases.
But our selling price increases in the mid -- in that 5% to 7% -- 4% to 6% selling price increase in the quarter then there's a little difference on the on the comp stores gallon gain.
And then just to conclude the question Chuck regarding the Global Finishes Group all 3 segments that we report there product finishes vehicle refinish and the protective segment all were very comparable and very nice solid gallon performance and the strong revenue that we already commented on.
And just to go back to Paint Stores so taking 4% to 6% away from the comp number gives us some comp volume growth? Yes.
All right.
And would you see that level of volume similar level of volume growth in the Global Finishes segment? Yes.
At least.
Our next question is coming from Eugene Fedotoff with Longbow Research.
Can you comment on the trends that you see in the markets and the global group particularly in Brazil and Mexico? And also if you can comment on the performance of your newly acquired businesses in Europe and your expectations for the businesses in fourth quarter.
Yes I think we've talked about the Latin American market where Brazil and Mexico reside.
It's embedded in that Global Finishes Group which as we indicated was at the high end of our sales performance of our 3 segments.
And the Brazilian and Mexican businesses are very much in line with the kind of numbers that we commented on.
I think regarding the acquisitions specifically we don't break them out individually.
There was an earlier caller that asked us if we were on track around this $450 million impact and we said we were.
So I think Eugene these are all kind of performing on pro forma and as expected.
Okay great.
And then on the price increases Chris you said that you announced 8% to 9% price increase in October.
Just wondering if you're playing -- if this price increase is going to be enough to close the gap if raw materials and pricing cost start to stabilize here and there too may continue to increase? Or are you playing for additional price increases towards the end of the year or maybe early next year? I think Sean commented earlier that we felt that by year-end we would probably be in the range of the margin guidance that we've provided for a while now in the 43% to 46% range.
Historically the company has operated at the peak of that range and we're guiding that we'll probably be in the lower half of it.
So that would indicate that we don't have all the pricing required to be back at the historic level.
The company does not comment on perspective pricing actions and we'll wait to see how the market responds on a number of fronts and give guidance to the street if and when we decide to take more pricing in the coming year.
Our next question is coming from Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research Company.
So first of all on the volume front I think the store volumes were down 2 or 3 points in the second quarter and up 3 points roughly in the third quarter.
Can you just provide a little more color in terms of what changed and then also if this up 3% is kind of the new volume run rate we should assume as we head into 4Q and perhaps into '12? If you talk there that would be great.
Yes Eric I think just to remind everyone last year we felt that the government put a program out for new homebuyers that really pulled some sales forward.
If you remember and I'll remind everyone March was very strong and April was very strong.
May was very strong.
And then you started to see the slippage in the third or fourth quarter.
From our standpoint we believe that the total year volume was probably not affected but what happened was the timing of that we had to go forward.
This year we are going against that.
In the first and second quarter we went through that and as you said really caused that decrease.
Having said that -- and we think that fourth quarter will look a lot like the third quarter.
Having said that when we talk about sequentially and so forth we still feel pretty good about the second quarter volume in the stores group.
Second to third quarter we think that there was some increases there.
But we think that just because of the major dramatic changes that that program caused in the second and third quarter last year caused major portion of the negative to positive.
And then secondly Sean can you explain -- I understand how the consumer downtime hurt the margin in the third quarter.
I guess I don't understand why you then produced more in the fourth quarter now that you've made this progress with inventory.
We don't.
We don't.
What happened -- once we've got our inventory down you're not going to see it come down but what happens is when your inventory comes up the balance sheet your expensing that conversion in a different quarter than what you produced it and that's what happens to us this year.
And that's why I think that when you see the quarterly -- last year our drop between the third and fourth quarter in the Consumer Group went from 17 down to 10.
You're not going to see that same dramatic decrease of the 11.7 that we produced this third quarter.
But that's on a sequential basis.
On a year-over-year basis it's going to look similar.
It just won't drop sequentially.
Is that the right way to think about it? Yes.
I think that -- I usually don't do this but I would tell you that the segment probably will have a higher operating margin in the fourth quarter even with the raw material headwind.
Why is that? Because of this drop that we took in the third quarter that won't repeat in the fourth.
And then lastly on gross margin do you have visibility ability -- or how should we think about understand the 43% to 46% range? At what point do we get to where we have stabilization in gross margin on a year-over-year basis? So a lot of this Eric is obviously predicated on the raw material costing environment.
So if you can answer that part of the formula [indiscernible] we'll tell you where we're going to stabilize.
As you know we're going to continue to put pricing into the market on the heels of raw material cost pressure to us and so it's going to take some time for us to recover.
Our next question is coming from Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
The first question the effect of raw materials as we think about '12.
Chris I think you said we'll see -- kind of you're not sure where some of the forecasts go but just given where cost and how cost plays in this year if you just held sort of raw material cost constant what would that sort of imply for the basket next year? I think that Dennis to that point if we were unable to freeze raw material cost right where they are today we'd still see a mid-double-digit kind of price increase next year in the teens.
A mid-double-digit increase on the raw materials side? Yes.
Yes okay.
And then sort of separately and I'm not sure how much you want to get into the details of kind of competitor actions but realizing one of the home centers pushing more aggressively into the pro side or the paint  [indiscernible] and seen increased presence of -- maybe going after your contractors.
Can you just talk about how you guys think about that as a competitive threat whether these are different types of contractors that might be doing multiple things as opposed to just paint or other ways to kind of frame that versus any other threat you usually see in the market? Sure.
Well we have terrific respect for all the big-box competitors that are in this space.
We have watched for decades essentially Dennis and see the same demographic shift toward the paint that we've watching in a number of initiatives and programs that have been introduced to attract that customer into their footprint.
It's incumbent upon Sherwin and the other operators of the specialty paint store chains to continue to do the things to keep that customer loyal to our channel.
I think those actions are afoot.
You see that simply as we continue to open more and more convenient store locations as well as the caliber and the talent we put inside the store and the technology and the product that's being introduced.
So all those things continue to keep this customer loyal to the channel.
Having said that we think that these are very compelling competitors and we have to continue to pay attention.
You make reference to the more -- not so much the painting contractor specifically but more of the remodeling contractor or what we sometime refer to as the handyman who might be buying multiple home improvement products not just in the same category and that's a more appropriate customer [indiscernible].
We think that's happening and time will tell where these all shakes out.
We remain committed to being the retail location and choice for the professional painting contractor and we like our chances going forward.
And you said that you can measure volumes in the quarter at least holding share.
Do you feel comfortable with that sort of 30% volume is similar to the market or better than the market? Absolutely.
Our next question is coming from Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> With regard to your protective and marine coatings business can you advise us how that would split in terms of OEM versus repaint and also how protective per se versus marine? I would've thought you'd see a little volume pressure on the marine side but it looks like it's netting out to positive.
Yes that's been a pretty solid category for us Kevin.
And as with the architectural business the amount of new build -- or the degree to which new build is driving that category is way down.
So normally it could be as much as 20% of volume going into new build.
We would suspect that in this environment it would be close to half of that maybe 10% to 12%.
The repaint side the recoat side is the piece of the business that's holding up quite well.
Research Division</strong> How would it split Bob between protective and marine? The market I'm not sure of the split in the market.
In our business we are skewed very heavily toward protective.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Sean with regard to the board's new authorization of an additional 20 million shares to be repurchased can you comment broadly on the expected pace of execution there relative to your old 30 million authorization put forth in October of '07? Is there any reason to believe it would be different over a multiyear period? I'm glad you mentioned that '07 because this 20 million is really not anything new to this management team.
We also received 20 million in 2005 and 2003.
So it's been an ongoing program.
I think the way we've been purchasing the stock is pretty consistent to what you're going to see in the future.
I think that it's not that we're always trying to do 4%.
But it's interesting when you look over the 10-year period annually it's been at least 4% every year.
I think that again the cash we're producing we're going to be looking for acquisitions or the dividends are important to us the CapEx and and where there are acquisitions you're going to still see us buying stock.
And as Chris mentioned one time in -- 41 straight quarters we've purchased stocks.
So I think you'll still see us in the market every quarter.
Our next question is coming from Chris Nocella with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to the question on volumes.
Given your architectural coatings you're managing for many years now how do you think of the potential for pent-up demand given that people have delayed remodeling projects? So basically do you see the potential for higher volume even if the housing market turnover specifically remains pretty depressed? Yes Chris we have been commenting that the residential repaint market will be rebounding and as Bob said mainly on the maintenance side and a good part of that is because of this pent-up demand.
The number that I can maybe share with you that will give you some comfort around that is that we've been talking about the U.S.
architectural coatings industry at its peak 4 years or so ago produced 800 million gallons and that number's dropped to just below 600 million  gallons.
And if you back out the housing bubble impact it had new home construction and new commercial construction kind of in more normalized historic run rates not bubble rates.
The industry should be somewhere in the 725 million to maybe as high as 750 million gallons.
So we think that as the new construction comes back it doesn't account for all that growth in 600 million to mid-700s.
There's obviously pent-up demand on maintenance both residential and some commercial as well and I think that will be the strength of this market for the next several years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as those volumes improve how do you think of the need to add cost in this environment? I'm sorry.
I didn't really get the relationship there.
Can you ask the question again please? Research Division</strong> Well if you have improving volumes your need to add SG&amp;A costs? Yes.
I think when you take a look at it there will be some incremental really but I think that SG&amp;A at this level we think that over 90% is fixed.
And the reason it's so high is that we consider manpower in the store being  [indiscernible] is a fixed cost.
You don't open a store without a manager a system manager and the right staffing.
So when we look at what we are able to do between 2002 and 2007 and look at the incremental -- how much we brought down to the bottom line and incremental income we think that we could actually be slightly higher than that if it goes back up to that 725 million to 750 million range.
And we think our capacity -- where we're running that capacity gives us some nice incremental flow-through.
Our next question is coming from Jeremy Brunelli with Consumer Edge Research.
This year we've had an unprecedented number of major weather events Hurricane Irene most recently the tornadoes Midwest et cetera.
Do you have any sense of the acceleration in volumes and maybe paint projects in your domestic market whether they have anything to do with these weather events? And then just a second question when you look at kind of the repaint in architectural demand is any sense that there is an increase in average project size or total number of projects that you're getting maybe from the survey work that you do at the Paint Store level? Jeremy first comment on the weather I think that yes Irene certainly impacted up and down the eastern seaboard but as a country we think some form of hurricane weather activity.
Every year we take various rains and snow storms et cetera so it's rare that the company comments on weather having either a negative or positive impact on the organization.
We have seen from time to time geographically some impacts on these but Irene has been the caliber hurricane that would have done that.
Katrina moved the needle for us in the southwestern part of the United States.
Various other hurricanes historically in Florida might have but I don't  think that those things will move the needle or having an impact in the third quarter volumes that we've been talking about.
In terms of the repaint projects we're seeing relative to average size or scope I don't think there's a lot of change in that at all.
The only thing I'd say on that Jeremy is that given that residential repaint has been where most of the strength in the market has been over the last few quarters those tend to be smaller projects than the commercial projects.
So if we see a meaningful rebound in commercial volume that probably suggests larger product size.
And do you have any sense that whether these are kind of projects that are done jointly with other parts of the projects so maybe like a kitchen remodel or are these projects mostly focused around just doing a paint project and that's it no other aspects of the project? Well given that large-ticket home improvement projects are down I would say that the growth we're seeing in the residential repaint market which has been modest but it's been positive are likely maintenance painting projects and redecorating projects as opposed to the tailwind of large capital improvement projects.
Our next question is coming from the line of Silke Kueck with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> On average the volume growth on mature wins looks higher than what's reported by some of your global competitors.
Can you talk about like where you may have gained share? Yes I think Silke that clearly in the painting contractor segments that we've been talking about we're pretty confident that this has been the share-gaining cycle that we've been through in the third quarter.
We'll confirm that as well.
I think our DIY performance through our stores group also has been a share-gaining performance.
It's been performing right in line with these high revenue numbers that we've been commenting on through the stores and the volume performance has been nice there as well too.
Obviously we have commented publicly about our Consumer Group's loss of a significant retail partner so I think all in when you look at the DIY segment the puts and takes are probably more in the flattish area.
But clearly again these professional painting contractors across all the segments will continue to gain share.
Research Division</strong> And then in terms of raw material costs I think you earlier said that if raw materials stayed flat where they are today they would be up low or mid-double digits in 2012.
And does that factor in any decreases in propylene cost? Because when you look at any of the projections for propylene cost one would think that eventually your quoted cost would be down double-digit if stay where they are today.
Yes we don't disagree with that.
But I think the question was if the raw material costs to us stayed consistent where would our overall input cost be throughout calendar 2012 and that was the comment that we'd be in the low to mid-teens.
If propylene turns over and we start to see that feedstock pricing comes through our raws here this thesis is correct.
Research Division</strong> What's normally -- I mean anybody can look at propylene prices so if you look at what propylene price is doing how long it takes the quoted prices to change? Yes we should be seeing the drop in propylene flowing through that portion of the raw material basket in the next quarter or 2.
Our next question is coming from the line of Gregg Goodnight with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Would you comment on -- price aside would you comment on TiO2 availability in inventories you're  seeing out there both now and your commitments for sourcing TiO2 for the important 2012? Do you see any issues there? We've got no issues with that at all Greg.
Supply is fine for this year as well as the foreseeable future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of inventories and availability are things fairly balanced? In terms of our inventory? Research Division</strong> Yes well your reading on the industry.
Yes I think we're fine.
I don't hear any stress in the industry where we're unable to get inventory on raw materials.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question.
Bob in terms of lead paint is the Gaines case the final battle there or do we -- is that the last chapter on lead paint? There are a handful of personal injury suits still pending Gregg.
I think we have one maybe in Mississippi and a couple in Wisconsin.
There is also the matter of the public nuisance complaint still pending in California which we are in a discovery phase now.
And it's slated to go to trial late next year but we'll see if we stick to that timing.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Sean TiO2 year-over-year increases what percentage of your year-over-year total year-over-year raw material increase did the TiO2 contribute? Yes.
I think most of the time we do talk about the basket.
We still believe that the basket will increase in the high teens low 20% range.
When you take a look at that the majority of it is that titanium dioxide.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question if I could.
The experts are talking about TiO2 price increases switching from a TiO2-constrained to an ore-constrained situation.
In fact they are talking about retail prices averaging $720 a ton this year going up to $2 000 a ton by 2013.
My question to you guys is: Have you looked at the ore situation? Do you believe the ore prices could potentially fly up by a factor of 2 or 3 for the high-grade ores? Yes Greg we are aware of the orefication I would say for the first time probably in 3 or 4 of these titanium runs that I've been involved in.
We've actually been a little bit more work through the providers of TiO2 to the ore manufacturer.
So we are marginally up to speed on some of the economics that are facing that.
I don't think we really have an opinion or comment on that at this point in time.
Our next question is from Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> First question is just on your guidance.
I mean the $0.67 to $0.87 is a pretty wide range for the fourth week in October.
Just wondering what put you at the top what put you at bottom.
And I know you had an improvement in volumes this quarter but obviously you're coming out of some tough comps in the first half.
So is it volume upside you see? Is it just something breaking on price realization going through quicker than expected? Just what drives that wide range so late in the year.
Yes Don really just one factor and you're very accurate.
We feel pretty good where we think the sales will come in what we think is going to happen with the SG&amp;A what we think our interest expense and so forth will be.
It really comes down to this cost thing and how much cost will come in and the effect on our LIFO reserves for the year.
That's probably the #1 reason that the range is -- the range without that volatility in the gross margin -- really caused by the 2 things.
We'll see what our costs of goods sold are in the fourth quarter.
And as you know with LIFO that's last in first out so we'll see what happens.
And then the LIFO reserve as well as the raws are causing that.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And then a follow-up on the Consumer Group I guess you're close to lapping the loss of color plates business.
Was that much of a volume for you in the fourth quarter of last year? Because I guess at that time you knew that that would running off anyway.
So was that part of the improvement in consumer margins as well as the comps get a little easier? Not actually in the fourth quarter.
Fourth quarter was still a fairly strong quarter for us not only for the color plates that we were providing but if any of the other 3 vendors had any type of issues as far as providing we were doing the providing for their product.
So fourth quarter was still a pretty good quarter for us with that Walmart business.
Really in the fourth quarter you're going to see the annualization.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And Chris you've talked in the past about the potential for perhaps becoming a second source of supply to one of the big-boxes.
Any progress there? I know in the past there's been hang-ups over branding and things like that but is there any update you can provide us there? No nothing to comment on that at this time Don.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And then final question you talked about how you've gained share.
Is that a case of your gaining work of a contractor business or do you think that this contractor versus big-box dynamic has sort of played out? And as you've said some of the handyman and remodelers who buy from big-boxes that's taken some share of the contractor market.
So I'm just wondering whether these were just market share gains that you had or whether it's an improvement in the overall contractor big-box? Yes we talked publicly about the split in the market between the contractor painting contractor purchases and all other categories which would include DIY primarily but also some of this remodeler.
Anybody that doesn't generate more of than 75% of their revenue from applying paint we don't consider a painting contractor.
That shift has moderated at 55% of all purchases for painting contractors.
It's the second year in a row.
So after seeing it fall for a couple of years due to the falloff in construction that's moderating.
Relative to the shift between that and the big-boxes we haven't seen any movement from the contractor toward the big-boxes.
So the share gains that we're speaking of -- and when we talk about share we're going into the individual segment have we gained more share specifically against the res repaint contractor the commercial contractor et cetera.
And that's where we told you that we're quite confident that this has been a share-gaining cycle for us against all those subsegments.
Our next question is coming from the line of Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just on a little bit further detail on the share gains.
I'm just trying understand what you would see is driving that.
Is this better quality better service that you're seeing people shifting away from competitors or is it -- would you qualify as competitors kind of saying "We just can't really maintain the business as it is.
We don't have the control distribution.
It just doesn't makes sense for us." or they're leaving the marketplace? Yes again speaking specifically about the painting contractor market in North America and their strong preference for the specialty paint store channel we think during this cycle that we've seen north of a thousand locations close.
That would be a small mom-and-pop independent dealer as well as some of the larger national and regional chains that we compete with in close locations.
So just on a door count alone the share position has improved.
I think when you look inside that -- in each of our calls over the last several quarters we've talked about the strategic decision the company's made to keep staffing levels in these stores at high levels.
That's why our SG&amp;A peaked and I think again that's the key component of keeping contractors loyal to that footprint.
So all those things would be part and parcel of why that share shift is moving towards the Sherwin-Williams store footprint.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then with regard to overall pricing mix next year you said of course that raw materials seeing them up even if they stayed flat in the teens.
Is there any way even as you try to get to price increases just on the raw materials side to improve your mix so that overall whether or not you recover your raws you're still getting stronger pricing? Over the course of time and through all of these usually we do see us a positive mix change for us on the gross margin side as well as the -- towards the higher quality products.
And then with new products that again occurs.
So I think that next year we're going to be more of the same.
I think we're going to see positive mix for us in 2012.
And as Chris said when you annualize where we're at just currently you do have a raw material increase.
And with the pricing that we did in October that's going to be annualized next October.
I think you're going to see price still be a good size factor for increasing sales next year.
Our next question is coming from Ivan Marcuse with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
On the consumer side do you expect the same production trends next year so meaning a buildup of inventory in the first half and then working it off in the second half or do you expect to continue or go back to where it's been historically? Yes.
I think right now we're going through that planning process and it really has to come down to what we think is going to happen to raws and so forth.
But I would tell you it's probably -- even if we repeated it it would not be as dramatic as it is in 2011.
Will we be all the way back to where we were in 2009? I don't know but we're finalizing those plans right now but I don't think it'll be as dramatic as this year.
Our last question is a follow-up from Chuck Cerankosky with North Coast Research.
Sean I'm looking forward too to 2012 about the Consumer Group.
I'm just trying to get a little more input from you with the complete cycling of the business decline at Walmart and maybe a new production cycle at the Consumer Group in 2012.
What should we be thinking about in terms of sales increase and the cadence of the margin shifts year-over-year? Yes I think that over time we've talked about long term.
We think it's going to be flat up slightly.
I think that when you take a look at the Consumer Group right now probably it's going to have a little more price than normal in next year but I would say with a more normalized production rate.
I think you're going to -- that's what I would say.
In the near-term you're going to see from consumer.
Would you expect year-over-year margin improvements in consumer? In 2012 yes.
Yes versus '11? We're working on that game plan right now but just as company I think we expect margin improvement.
Right now we haven't finalized the plan but I would say that our operating team I don't think we'd come up here without a margin improvement next year.
Gentlemen there are no further questions at this time.
I'll now turn the floor back over to Bob Wells for closing comments.
We'd like to thank you all for your participation on the call this morning on this very busy reporting day for you.
As always I will be available over the balance of the day and week to take your follow-up questions.
We appreciate you joining us this morning and thanks for your continued interest in Sherwin-Williams.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and we thank you for your participation.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining the Sherwin-Williams Company's review of fourth quarter and full year 2011 results and expectations for 2012.
With us on today's call are Chris Connor Chairman and CEO; Sean Hennessy Senior Vice President Finance and CFO; Al Mistysyn Vice President Corporate Controller; and Bob Wells Senior Vice President Corporate Communications.
This conference call is being webcast simultaneously in listen-only mode by Vcall via the Internet at www.sherwin.com.
An archived replay of this webcast will be available at www.sherwin.com beginning approximately 2 hours after this conference call ends and will be available until Thursday February 16 2012 at 5 p.m.
Eastern Standard Time.
This conference call will include certain forward-looking statements as defined under U.S.
federal securities laws with respect to sales earnings and other matters.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A full declaration regarding forward-looking statements is provided in the company's earnings release transmitted earlier this morning.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Chris Connor.
Thank you Jackie and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
The company finished 2011 on a very solid footing and 2012 was off to a strong start.
We're looking forward to sharing these results with you and taking your questions.
But before we get to that let me take a moment to comment on an important change in our reporting structure.
This morning the company filed an 8-K announcing the change in our reportable operating segments.
Beginning with the fourth quarter of 2011 we increased our reportable operating segments from 3 to 4 due to the continued revenue growth geographic expansion and end-market diversity of our Global Finishes Group.
The Latin American Coatings Group previously aggregated within the Global Finishes Group will now be reported as a stand-alone segment.
The remaining Global Finish Group businesses mainly automotive finishes our OEM product finishes and protective and marine coatings will make up the Global Finishes Group reportable operating segment.
This change will provide better visibility into the operations and financial performance of these businesses.
The segregation makes sense in that our Latin American Coatings Group sells primarily architectural products in a specific geography whereas the businesses on our Global Finishes segment service industrial end markets worldwide.
Information about the composition of each of our reportable operating segments is included in the 8-K filed this morning.
For comparison purposes the 8-K filing also includes updated results for each calendar quarter of 2011 as well as full year results for these new segments for 2010 and 2009.
All this information can be accessed through our company website under the Investor Relations/SEC filings tab.
I'll now turn the call over to Bob Wells to review our fourth quarter and full year results then I'll be back to comment on our performance in 2011 as well as give our outlook for 2012.
Bob? Thanks Chris.
In order to allow more time for questions we've provided balance sheet items and other statistical data on our website at sherwin.com under Investor Relations 2010 Year-end Press Release.
Summarizing overall company performance for the fourth quarter and full year 2011 consolidated sales for the fourth quarter increased 9.2% to $2.07 billion due primarily to selling price increases acquisitions and higher paint sales volume.
For the full year sales increased 12.7% to $8.77 billion.
Sales from acquisitions increased consolidated net sales 0.7% in the quarter and 4.5% for the year.
Currency translation rate changes decreased consolidated net sales 1.2% in the quarter and increased sales 0.7% for the year.
Consolidated gross margin in the fourth quarter decreased to 42.8% of sales from 44.6% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
For the year gross margin decreased to 42.7% of sales from 44.8% last year.
The decrease in gross margins for the quarter and year was primarily due to higher year-over-year raw material costs.
Selling general administrative expense in dollars increased $33.6 million in the fourth quarter compared to fourth quarter last year but decreased as a percent of sales to 36.4% from 38% in the same quarter last year.
For the full year 2011 SG&amp;A expense increased $232.7 million but also decreased as a percent of sales to 33.8% from 35.1% in 2010.
Incremental SG&amp;A from acquisitions and new stores accounted for the majority of the SG&amp;A increases in the year.
Our fourth quarter 2011 asset impairment charge of $5.5 million compared to a fourth quarter asset impairment charge last year of $4.5 million.
Interest expense for the quarter decreased $11.8 million to $9.6 million.
For the year interest expense was $42.5 million compared with $70.6 million in 2010.
And as a reminder fourth quarter and full year 2010 interest expense included costs associated with the repurchase of long-term debt.
The incremental interest expense related to the repurchase of this debt reduced 2010 diluted net income per common share by approximately $0.04 in the fourth quarter and $0.12 for the full year.
Our effective income tax rate for the fourth quarter 2011 increased to 88.8% from 29.7% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our fourth quarter '11 income tax expense includes a onetime after-tax charge of approximately $75 million to satisfy our settlement with the IRS.
For the year our effective tax rate was 40.4% compared to 31.8% in 2010.
Consolidated net income for the quarter decreased by $58.4 million to $14.5 million.
For the year net income decreased $20.6 million to $441.9 million.
Net income as a percent of sales decreased to 70 basis points from 3.8% in the fourth quarter last year.
This decrease was due entirely to the IRS settlement.
For the year net income as a percent of sales decreased to 5% from 5.9% in 2010 for largely the same reason.
Diluted net income per common share for the fourth quarter 2011 decreased to $0.14 per share from $0.67 per share in the fourth quarter 2010.
For the year diluted net income per common share decreased to $4.14 from $4.21 per share in 2010.
The IRS settlement reduced diluted net income per common share in the quarter by $0.71 per share and in the full year by $0.70 per share.
Now I'd like to review our performance by segment.
Sales for our Paint Stores Group in the fourth quarter 2010 increased 13.5% to $1.13 billion.
For the year net sales increased 9.1% to $4.78 billion.
Sales increased in the quarter and year resulted primarily from selling price increases and gradually improving architectural paint sales volumes across most customer segments.
Comparable store sales increased 12.7% in the quarter and 8.3% in the year.
Regionally in the fourth quarter our Eastern division led all divisions followed by Southeastern division Midwestern division and Southwestern division.
Sales by all 4 Paint Stores division increased by double-digit percentages in the fourth quarter.
Segment operating profit for the Paint Stores Group decreased 1% to $133.7 million from $134.8 million in the fourth quarter last year due primarily to higher raw material costs increased SG&amp;A expense and the impairment charge.
For the full year Paint Stores Group operating profit increased 4.2% to $645.7 million due primarily to higher selling prices and volume growth that more than offset higher raw material costs and SG&amp;A expenses.
Segment operating profit margin for the fourth quarter decreased to 11.8% from 13.5% last year.
Profit margin for the full year 2011 decreased to 13.5% from 14.1% in 2010.
Turning now to Consumer Group.
Fourth quarter external net sales decreased 1.1% to $252.1 million from $255 million in the fourth quarter last year.
For the year Consumer Group sales decreased 1.8% to $1.27 billion from $1.3 billion in 2010.
Consumer Group sales in the quarter and the year were adversely impacted by the loss of a portion of a paint program with a large retail customer that was partially offset by selling price increases.
Segment operating profit for the fourth quarter increased to $30.2 million from $26.1 million last year primarily due to the selling price increases and good expense control that were partially offset by higher raw material costs.
For the year segment operating profit decreased to $173.7 million from $204 million in 2010.
The segment profit decline in the year resulted primarily from higher raw material costs that were only partially offset by higher selling prices and good expense control.
As a percent of net sales Consumer Group's operating profit in the fourth quarter increased to 12% from 10.2% last year.
For the year operating margin decreased to 13.6% from 15.7% in 2010.
For our Global Finishes Group net sales in the fourth quarter increased 8.1% to $463.3 million due primarily to selling price increases acquisitions and higher sales volume.
For the year Global Finishes Group sales increased 32.5% to $1.88 billion due again to acquisitions selling price increases higher sales volume and favorable currency translation.
Acquisitions increased the group's sales in U.S.
dollars by 3.2% in the quarter and 20.7% in the year.
Currency translation of rate changes decreased sales in U.S.
dollars by 1.7% in the quarter and increased sales by 1.4% in the year.
Global Finishes Group segment operating profit in the fourth quarter increased to $13 million from $9.3 million last year.
For the year segment operating profit increased to $90.3 million from $64.7 million last year.
In the quarter and year higher selling prices volume growth and good expense control more than offset raw material cost inflation and dilution from acquisition.
Currency translation had no significant effect on segment profit in the quarter and increased profit $4.5 million in the year.
Acquisitions reduced profit for the segment $2.8 million in the quarter and $6.4 million in the year.
As a percent of net sales Global Finishes Group operating profit was 2.8% in the fourth quarter compared to 2.1% last year and 4.8% for the year compared to 4.6% in 2010.
For our Latin America Coatings Group net sales in the fourth quarter increased 4% to $20.1 million due primarily to higher sales volume and selling price increases partially offset by unfavorable currency translation.
For the year sales increased 22.7% to $828.5 million due primarily to acquisition selling price increases higher sales volume and favorable currency translation.
Acquisitions had no material impact on segment sales for the quarter but increased sales in U.S.
dollars by 8.7% in the year.
Currency translation rate changes decreased sales in U.S.
dollars by 6.4% in the quarter and increased sales by 3% in the year.
Stated in U.S.
dollars Latin America Coatings Group segment profit in the quarter increased 34.6% to $26.4 million.
For the year segment profit increased 27.9% to $75.4 million.
In both the quarter and year segment profit improvement resulted primarily from higher sales volume and price increases partially offset by raw material cost inflation.
Currency translation decreased segment profit $1.9 million in the quarter and increased profit $1.9 million in the year.
Acquisitions had no impact on profit in the quarter but increased segment profit $1.1 million over the 12 months.
As a percent of net sales segment operating profit was 12% in the fourth quarter compared to 9.3% last year and 9.1% for the year compared to 8.7% in 2010.
Let me conclude by commenting briefly on our balance sheet items.
You'll find more balance sheet information on our website under sherwin.com Investor Relations Press Releases.
Our total debt on December 31 2011 was $993.4 million including short-term borrowings of $346.3 million.
Our cash balance at the end of the quarter was $32.7 million compared to $58.6 million at the end of 2010.
Total borrowings to capitalization were 39.6% at year end compared to 39.4% at the end of 2010.
Long-term debt capitalization were 25.8% compared to 24.7% on December 31 2010.
For the full year 2011 we spent $154 million on capital expenditures.
Depreciation expense was $151 million and amortization expense was $30 million.
For the full year 2012 we anticipate capital expenditures for the year to be in the range of $140 million to $150 million.
Appreciation will be about $150 million and amortization will be about $30 million.
I'll conclude with a review -- 2 brief comments on the status of our litigation.
In California the Santa Clara case involving 8 cities and counties in California and 5 former lead pigment manufacturers continues to move through the discovery phase.
Discovery will continue for the next 4 to 6 months at which time the parties will have the opportunity to file depositive --  depositive pretrial motion.
The court has set a tentative trial date of September 10 2012.
In Wisconsin the Gibson case involving a single plaintiff was recently argued before the Seventh Circuit Federal Court of Appeals.
The trial judge found that risk contribution rule established by the Wisconsin Supreme Court in earlier in the Thomas case to be unconstitutional.
The plaintiff appealed and we expect a decision within the next 30 to 60 days.
That concludes my review of our results for fourth quarter and full year 2011.
So I'll turn the call back over to Chris who will make some general comments and highlight our expectations for 2012.
Chris? Thanks Bob.
We began 2011 with a cautious sense of optimism and on our year-end call last year we predicted that we'd look back probably on 2010 as a transition year for our company the domestic paint coatings industry.
We described the outlook at that time for many of our end markets as stable to improving.
And as you recall we tempered this outlook by saying that raw material cost inflation was likely to remain a challenge.
I think it's fair to say looking back the conditions we faced over the past year in both of these fronts were more challenging than we anticipated.
U.S.
market demand for paint and coatings continued to trend downward following the exploration of the 2010 home buyer tax credit stimulus.
Department of Commerce buying estimates for the architectural market in the first half of 2011 were down 8% from 2010.
Most Latin American markets fared better than the U.S but European markets likely fared worse.
I don't think I need to belabor the point too much on raw materials.
Our outlook at the beginning of 2011 was for industry-wide market basket of inflation in the high single to low double-digit range for the year and the actual inflation rate as we all know was probably double that.
Yet against the challenging backdrop of depressed market demand and unprecedented raw material cost inflation Sherwin finished 2011 with record sales and record earnings per share.
We continue to invest in new stores and branches and we made great progress towards integrating the 4 acquisitions completed over the past 2 years.
We generated strong net operating cash that was reinvested in the business used to buy back our stock and pay a record dividend.
By most measures 2011 was a successful year.
But I'd like to comment briefly on the progress we made in a few specific areas because I think they best underscore the strength and focus of our organization.
First our ongoing commitment to expanding our store base and maintaining appropriate service levels on our stores despite the difficult market conditions is clearly paying off.
Paint Stores Group achieved positive gallon volume growth for the full year 2011 and the rate of growth accelerated significantly in the second half and even more so in the fourth quarter.
This growth was broad based with nearly every customer segment showing positive volume.
More importantly in a flat to down market we are confident that our volume growth during the year translates to market share growth.
In 2011 our Paint Stores Group added 60 net new stores bringing our store count in the U.S.
Canada and the Caribbean to 3 450 locations compared to 3 390 a year ago.
Our plan for 2012 again calls for net new store openings in the range of 50 to 60 locations.
Looking beyond the Paint Stores Group our company achieved a noteworthy milestone in the fourth quarter as we surpassed 4 000 total company operated stores and branches across all operating segments worldwide.
The same competitive advantages control distribution brings to our Paint Stores Group namely direct customer interaction responsiveness and the control over brands pricing inventory and growth are equally applicable to our Global Finishes and Latin American Coatings Group.
For these regions control distribution will continue to play an important and expanding role in these segments going forward.
Second I'd like to take a moment to comment on our continued progress in working capital management and cash performance.
At year end our working capital ratio had dropped to 10.9% of sales compared to 11.9% at the end of 2010 convincing evidence that the integration of the acquisitions completed in the past 2 years is on track.
This tight working capital management contributed to higher cash generation.
For the year we generated $736 million net operating cash or about 8.4% of sales.
If we add back the cash settlement paid to the IRS during the year cash from operations for the year rose above 9% of net sales.
Free cash flow operating cash minus CapEx and dividends finished the year at $428 million.
In the fourth quarter we acquired just under 0.5 million shares of the company stock for treasury bringing our full year total to 4.7 million shares purchased at an average cost of $78.16 per share our total investment of $367 million.
At year end we have remaining authorization to acquire another 21 million shares of the company stock.
Over the past year we've returned more than $153 million in cash to shareholders through quarterly dividends.
2011 marked our 33rd consecutive year of increased dividends per share a string we intend to continue in 2012.
The third and final area I'd like to touch on is our earnings per share performance for the year.
$4.84 before the IRS settlement is a record for our company and a solid performance considering the stiff headwinds we faced in the market.
If you believe the old expression that what doesn't kill you makes you stronger emerging from 2011 a much stronger company than we were a year ago.
And while we still have work to do in offsetting the raw material inflation we incurred this past year through a combination of productivity and price implementation I believe that 15% earnings per share growth in this environment proves the resilience of the business model.
Looking ahead to this year there appears to be a growing sentiment in the market predicting better times ahead.
Many see early signs of the housing recession that's finally nearing an end while others forecast moderating rates of raw material inflation.
From a demand side we too see early but encouraging signs of improvement in the residential markets.
Time will tell whether this momentum is durable and whether it will ultimately lead the U.S.
housing market back to more sustainable levels in the coming years.
On the raw material front however we still expect significant cost headwinds in 2012 primarily from titanium dioxide.
Couple this with the annualization of inflation from 2011 and we would expect the average year-over-year raw material cost increases for the paint and coatings industry to be in the high single to low double-digit percentage range in 2012.
With these factors in mind our outlook for the first quarter of 2012 is for consolidated net sales to increase 9% to 14% compared to last year's first quarter.
With sales of that level we estimate diluted net income per common share in the first quarter to be in the range of $0.56 to $0.74 per share compared to $0.63 per share earned in the first quarter of 2011.
For the full year we expect net sales will increase by a high single digits to low-teens percentage versus 2011.
And with annual sales of that level we estimate diluted net income per common share for 2012 will be in the range of $5.37 to $5.67 per share.
Again thanks to all of you for joining us this morning and now we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question's coming from Don Carson of Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Chris just wanted to know what your assumption was for the U.S.
architectural market behind your guidance range for next year and of course the DOC getting away with it with their reporting.
But you're talking about an 8% decline in the first half of '11 what's your assessment for full year and again what's sort of your base case for calendar 2012? Yes Don I think in terms of our expectations for the year going forward for the industry if we build it up from the pieces parts.
We would expect that the housing market is going to continue to show a moderate gain.
We think all in on both single-family and multifamily this year we're going to end somewhere in the mid-to-upper 600 000 units.
We think that's going to potentially grow to the low to mid-700 000 units.
That will be a little bit of a lift and we think that the repaint market has also been improving moderately.
So all in I think our kind of expectation for the industry will be that we'll see flat to low single-digit volume gains for the architectural market.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And then a question on your new segment reporting the old Global Finishes Group with so many acquisitions you were thinking of margin improvement from sort of the 6% range to maybe 11% 12% by 2014.
How does that change as you strip Latin America out and what do you see is the margin potential for Latin America which I guess is running around 9% now? Yes why don't I ask Sean Hennessy our CFO to jump in with that Don.
Yes Don again we used to talk about the 12% when we talked about the Global Group.
We still believe that both pieces will still be shooting at that 12%.
I think that you can see Latin America Group is over 9% which means that they're a little closer.
We expect them to reach that 12% prior to the Global Group.
But as we continue to do more things in Latin America with controlled distribution and so forth after we hit 12% we'll probably reevaluate that.
Our next question's coming from Chris Nocella of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Your same stores growth is 12.7% in the quarter what's the split there between price and volume? Yes pricing for the stores group Chris was in the upper single-digit range.
So that's the majority of it however we would note that the volume performance in the quarter really was strengthening for that business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And based on the already announced price increases do you think you'll still have the greatest benefit in the fourth quarter or could be -- first quarter be actually a little bit higher? In terms of pricing or...
Research Division</strong> Right.
Yes for the pricing do you think the flow-through will be higher in the first quarter than it was in the fourth? For the store group? Research Division</strong> Correct.
Yes yes.
In the fourth quarter which has the second smallest EPS when you look at the absolute dollars the adjustments that go through there we had the impairment of some trade names and so forth that -- but if you took a look at some of the inventory adjustments that go through in the fourth quarter the flow-through is acceptable.
But when you take a look at the fourth quarter we should -- first quarter we should not have that those headwinds.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just lastly on the Latin America business organic sales growth was about 11% 2011.
What is your expectation for that business in 2012? In the business we'll continue to tuck along pretty well.
We're going to have some FX issues in Latin America next year with the REI [ph] so I don't know if we've given guidance yet per se in the pieces parts but it'll be a positive year for Latin American Coatings next year.
Our next question is coming from Jeff Zekauskas of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> In your Paint Stores Group you had double-digit sales and flat operating profits whereas in the Consumer Group you had flat sales and if you adjust for some non-recurring items last year you had 50% improvement in operating profits.
So why is it that in the business where you had all the sales growth you didn't really have any operating profit growth whereas the opposite took place in consumer? Yes Jeff this is Sean Hennessy.
When you take a look -- if I can remind you the third quarter and when you looked at the third quarter the Consumer Group was 11.7% versus 17.5% in 2010 third quarter.
And at that time what we've said is if you looked at our -- the way our inventory was coming down usually we started to reduce our inventory in the third quarter.
And when someone asked why was our margin in Consumers down as dramatic we said that the reverse will happen in the fourth quarter.
That was you take some of that inventory off your balance sheet that's debit going through the P&amp;L because we're producing less.
That occurred in the third quarter this year versus the fourth quarter in 2010.
So as you can see 11.7% we're at 12% in the fourth quarter and the 17.5% was 10.2% in 2010.
So that's how -- a lot of different things are happening in the quarter-by-quarter that sometimes the quarters are changing as you manage your inventory and the balance sheet and so forth.
So that's why the 2 quarters in the third and the fourth quarter of Consumer were that way.
And again as I mentioned in the Paint Stores Group with $133 million last year second smallest quarter and with the fourth quarter with inventory adjustments LIFO and others and the trade names that really would caused the reduction in the flow-through but without it they showed acceptable flow-through.
Research Division</strong> Just while we're on the subject what was your gallon inch growth in 2011? We said the gallons were positive for the company in 2011.
And we said that that had been trending throughout the year and are more favorable with the fourth quarter being our best gallon quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly there are some -- or possibly there are some properties that are on the market with exposure to the auto repaint and auto OEM markets is that something that if they were available at attractive prices would be of interest to Sherwin-Williams even though they may be of relatively large size? Jeff we've never commented on a specific M&amp;A opportunity that's out there.
I'm familiar with the property you're talking about.
I think strategically you've heard us speak to the investment community about our interest in the automotive aftermarket segment but not the automotive OE segment.
We'll just leave it at that.
Our next question is coming from P.J.
Juvekar of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Chris you mentioned that you gained share in your Paint Stores business so are you taking share from other independent store chains? And is that more than offsetting any share loss that you may have had to the DIY segment? Yes P.J.
I think that our comment here is broad based for the industry as opposed to any specific channel segment.
Although I think you're right to talk about the smaller independent paint store operator that struggled in this downturn.
I think it's easy to see share gains from there as well as some of the other regional paint store chain operators that we think we've made progress against.
There's not been an offset for our DIY business.
We've commented throughout the year last year that our DIY performance was strong.
In fact on all the consolidated numbers that we've given you both on sales revenue and gallon performance for DIY our numbers were there or slightly higher.
So a strong DIY year for the company through our store's organization offset a little bit by the loss of DIY business through our Walmart account.
But overall a pretty strong performance as we've commented.
Looking at all the industry data we can get our hands in order the gallon performance were pretty confident across all segments there were share gains here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly can you update us on your efforts to reduce your TiO2 usage in paint? And do you have any volume market expectations? We have a number of initiatives underway to address the titanium issue.
And we've talked about them in the past with the investment community relative to replacing titanium with either lower-grade sulfite type titaniums internal formulations to reduce the use of it in sourcing perhaps some emerging technologies from other parts around the world.
All of those activities are underway.
I think we've given guidance that were those to all come to fruition we'd be somewhere in the 5% to 10% range of our total titanium tonnage usage that could be replaced.
And I'd say we're in the early days of making progress towards that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just quickly for Sean.
Sean you mentioned you think some FX headwinds from Latin America.
And given that industrial production IP has been slowing down in Brazil lately.
Are you seeing any impact on volumes there? Slightly but not dramatic enough to not give us confidence that we're going to have improvement in Brazil as well as Latin America.
Our next question is coming from Ivan Marcuse of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> First question I have is you've always been sort of conservative on your housing outlook is there a sign in the market now or something in the market that is more directly related to the repaint business or your store business that maybe is more positive now than it was than it had been in the past? Or is it just the general market that you're looking at that gives you some optimism going to 2012? Well I think the housing is more positive than it's been on the last 2 to 3 to 4 years.
We hit bottom somewhere in the 400 000 to 500 000 units and we're seeing 600 000 and change starts this year.
Most of the economic forecasters that we look at and we think this makes sense show a number slightly better than that next year.
We see that from permits that have been pulled and projects that are being bid on by our painting contracting customers.
So that outlook looks a little bit brighter to us.
And we've also just been watching the trend guidance.
The residential and the commercial repaint markets as a reminder still account for approximately 80% of all the gallon inch that our industry sells.
And that tends to kind of start to move and stay on the trend line.
And it's been a really -- a good trend line the last couple quarters.
And as we said briefly in our comments the year's off to a good start really driven by this maintenance painting project.
So heading into the year with a fairly optimistic outlook about what we're going to see through that architectural volume through our stores this year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Sean in the Consumer Group are you -- are operations and the inventory build is that going to sort of move back to historical operating patterns? Or is it going to be similar to the first half of this year where it was -- a buildup inventory and then as you talked in the second half were sort of a -- you worked out the inventory? Right.
I think we're going to go more to the historical.
And I think that's why when you look at the improvement that consumer had in the first quarter as they built inventory last year we'll still build inventory.
But I like your description more of historical.
And I think the bell shape curve will be closer to historical.
So we probably will not see the changes by quarter that we did this year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then lastly what was that FX gain related to? And then what do you expect your 2012 tax rate to be? I think our tax rate is going to be in the lower 30s like we have been for the past.
If you take the change out in the tax rate with leveraging [ph] settlement we're in the low 30s also.
But the FX gain and really the gain in the quarter was really driven in Brazil and Mexico but the FX plus year-to-date was really Mexico.
And then the Venezuela what happened at the beginning of the year with Venezuela.
Our next question is coming from Greg Melich of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to dig a little bit more into SG&amp;A.
Now that we cycled a lot of the acquisitions is that -- that 4% year-over-year growth I guess it's $25 million $30 million year-over-year should we think of that as a normalized run rate now that we've cycled the acquisitions and other things? Yes I think that when you take a look at it 4% 4.5% the 4.5% increase in the fourth quarter is more normalized.
If you think that we've annualized the major acquisitions in Europe through the first 3 quarters that's why the full year is probably a little different but I think you're right on with that analysis.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Chris maybe a bigger picture question.
In the past you've seen over many years your -- the range of the gross margin that the business could do used to be sort of 42% to 45% and then sort of shifted up to 43% to 46% but you've also been making acquisitions you've been growing overseas.
Do you think that 43% to 46% is still the right range? Or just given the acquisitions given the business mix that maybe it goes back to 42% 45% for a few years? No we still feel good about that range Greg.
And I think of note we've announced yet another price increase for calendar year 2012.
As you know we give full transparency to The Street regarding the pricing activities taken by our stores group.
And we announced an 8% price increase effective February 1 of 2012.
So we're going to continue to move pricing into the market place.
A great deal of it will depend on what happens with titanium for the rest of the year but if it holds in kind of the range that we have given for the year for the industry for our basket going up and we fully expect to be back to in the 43% to 46% range.
Our next question is coming from Chuck Cerankosky of Northcoast Research.
First question is regarding impairment charges Sean.
I'm looking at the P&amp;L and you got trademark impairment charges which you talk about in the text of the press release but you're also mentioning asset impairment charges.
Are we talking about 2 separate line items or 2 separate types of impairment charges? No I think we're talking about the same thing.
It's really related to trade names.
As you know when we acquired [indiscernible] and the store group you're looking at MAB Duron some others [indiscernible] some of these trade names we keep for quite a while.
But when you -- as you continue to stop using those brand names you're doing the mark to market on your balance sheet so you're doing it.
Last year those impairments actually went to global and dealt with a long time acquisition from prior years.
Well the reason I'm asking or focused on this Sean is the P&amp;L.
The amount for 2011 is bigger than $4.5 million of 2010 yet in the text it's talking about a $0.03 hit this year versus $0.04 last year.
I was wondering if you could reconcile that.
That is -- I'll get back to you on that Chuck the question on the $0.03 versus the $0.04.
Yes that's what had me confused there.
All right.
Got you.
Now when we're looking at the new segment reporting Sean it's been astounding at least to me spread between the operating margin of the Latin America Group versus Global Finishes and I'm wondering what accounts for that.
Is it some allocation things or just the nature of the products? But regarding the latter you'd think some of these protective coatings would have higher margins than architectural? Chuck I think it really has to do with the scale of the businesses.
We've been in Brazil for many many years a lot longer than we have been in China.
And some of these acquisitions that we did complete in 2010 as you know when you take a look at the purchase price versus sales it was lower than the dollar per dollar that we always -- that we refer to every once in a while.
We've continually said those were at lower operating margins.
So I think that it's a good change.
You're going to see that but I think that that's really the reason why.
Okay.
Could you be a little -- give us any precision on what the volume growth in the fourth quarter was in paint stores? Yes I think as we -- the earlier question when we talked about the revenue in the 12% range and that the pricing portion of that was in the upper single digit not the high single-digit the rest of that is going to be volume.
So by mathematics Chuck that's going to get you in the mid-single digit range.
Okay so similar to the third quarter? Stronger than the third quarter.
A little stronger? Stronger than the third quarter.
All right.
Now when you look at what your paint stores customers are doing both the contractors and the DIY when they're in the store are you seeing anything that indicates less sensitivity to price increases or a willingness to build the market basket? For example a contractor finally getting past the hump on buying an incremental piece of equipment or whatever it may be.
Yes I think as the volume comes and we were commenting in the last couple of quarters that has been coming.
And don't forget that volume is building on the backs of essentially fixed price increases announced in the last 20 months.
So there's a concern that pricing is having a chilling effect on demand? Once again proving that to be the case is more of the broader market issues that are causing painters to get going again.
We'll see the lifts in the associated product sales and really the equipment sales are more of a end of first quarter start of second quarter.
And we'll be able to comment a little bit more on that side of it going forward.
But in terms of product mix and continuing to move up to better quality products all those levers which are historically at play here Chuck are still behaving as they have historically.
Chuck if you wouldn't mind I'd like to jump in here and answer that question on the $0.03 versus $0.04.
The dollars that you quoted which is right from us is what hits the SG&amp;A.
Last year in the $0.04 there was also a $2.1 million impairment that went to cost of goods sold.
So that's why it was $0.04 last year and $0.03 this year.
So $0.04 -- go that by me again there's a...
Included in last year's $0.04 besides the amount that we -- that you quoted is also a $2.1 million that went to cost of goods sold.
And so that's what's in the $0.04.
We didn't include it in the absolute numbers that you quoted earlier.
So the $2.1 million is not in that EPS amount but it is in the $5.49 million.
No no.
We're talking about last year's when the number is higher.
It also -- the $0.04 included a $2.1 million impairment hit into cost of goods sold.
The other number you quoted is the SG&amp;A piece.
Our next question is coming from Bob Koort of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Brian Maguire on for Bob today.
First just a question on the raw material guidance.
If I heard you right I think you said high single to low double-digit raw material cost for 2012.
I think on the third quarter call you might have mentioned that if prices stayed where they were then you'd be looking at more like low- to mid-teens.
And I think we've since gotten a price increase in TiO2.
So we're just wondering if something has changed since then or maybe you're seeing something in the organic side of the bucket or the metal side of the bucket that you're expecting a decline there next year just due to the components of that raw increase.
Great question Brian.
And that's very intuitive to pick that up because you're right there has been a little bit of a change.
And I want to ask Bob just to comment on what we're seeing here.
Sure Brian.
The question that we answered on last quarter's call was if you took -- if you straight-lined raw material cost where we finished the quarter in third quarter what would it bode for 2012 as it annualizes.
It's a little different question asking the same question at the end of fourth quarter because a good portion of the raw material basket eased somewhat during the fourth quarter.
So we're starting from a slightly lower base in the fourth quarter.
Annualized 2011 cost going through '12 today would amount to mid-to high single-digits for the industry.
And then on top of that we anticipate continued inflation in TiO2 as we indicated.
Research Division</strong> So was it mostly the resins that gave you some of the release in the fourth quarter? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on the SG&amp;A I think it sounded like you're expecting continued kind of 4% to 4.5% growth year-over-year.
And contrasting that against your high single to low teens sales growth guidance that implies a lot of leverage in 2012.
Do you think that will be enough to offset any gross margin compression that you might have from a raw material price increases? All right.
I think that when you take a look at it we really -- we try to give you sales and EPS guidance.
I mean we don't go down each component whether it's gross margin and give guidance especially at this time.
But I think when you look at the high point to midpoint and the low point I think that it bodes that we're going to have operating margin improvement next year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I think I heard you mentioned that the Eastern regions led the way on the same-store sales growth in the paint stores.
Was that a change from what you've been seeing recently? Or is there anything kind of in the composition of where the same store sales growth is coming geographically that gives you some increased confidence that this housing recovery is meaningful and we're going to -- you'll actually have a recovery in 2012? This is Bob Brian.
I think the eastern division has kind of been lagging on the new construction side simply because there's not as much you new developments and space to develop in eastern geographic regions.
I think the strong performance by Eastern division in the fourth quarter really suggests that the repaint market in the Eastern division were outperforming those in the other divisions.
Although as Chris pointed out all 4 -- or as I pointed out all 4 divisions had double-digit sales growth in the fourth quarter.
So we're kind of splitting hairs trying to determine difference between the 4.
Research Division</strong> It's pretty broad based then? Yes.
Our next question is coming from Kevin McCarthy of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Chris you mentioned in response to a previous question that you thought you might be able to reduce your titanium dioxide requirement by 5% to 10% as one of your major global coatings peers has made similar remarks within the last 6 or 8 weeks.
Just want to drill down a little bit on that.
You mentioned it was early days can you give us a feel for where you are today relative to that target range? Also the timing that you would envision to achieve the range and how much you can get from new technologies versus let's say just diminishing the content on lower-end products if that's an option.
We're not in the range today.
We'd be below that.
The expectation would be that over the next years we would work to get in there.
And I think that's about the breadth of what we'd be comfortable commenting on.
We recognize that given the choice of a poor performing product or a consistent product at a higher price the vast majority of our customers would opt for the latter.
And so any decisions we make to replace titanium reduce titanium formulate titanium out go through a very rigorous field testing process.
So we're going to lag a little bit perhaps our peers ability to move in this range.
Nevertheless it's work worth doing and there's opportunities there and I feel that we're on target of where we should be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then shifting gears Sean Brazilian currency and a lot of other currencies for that matter have been quite volatile since Labor Day of last year can you remind us how you're approaching hedging especially now that we have the separate Latin segment there.
How should we think about your activities or lack thereof? Yes I think that we continually look at again cash flow.
We're doing -- we're borrowing in country.
We borrowed in country when we've been to Europe as well as some of the other acquisitions that we made.
And this operating income is being created -- or cash is being created we continue to pay down.
While these companies are bringing cash back to us here in the United States we're doing some forward contracts and so forth.
But we're also doing things between one country and the other so that we have inter-companies that are protecting us.
Our next question is coming from Dennis McGill of Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
Chris I think you mentioned in the fourth quarter you said the volume growth that you saw was across every customer segment.
I was just curious if there's a meaningful spread between top and bottom.
So any color I guess you could give on which segments are at the extremes.
And then if there's any meaningful discrepancy maybe give us the order of magnitude.
Yes I think the trend line there Dennis have been that the DIY business and the residential repaint business through our contractor segments were at the high end.
That's been consistent with kind of the year's performance.
The news in the quarter is that the new residential and some of the commercial markets which had been lagging turned positive for us as well and that's a really good sign.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just big picture I guess in hindsight when you look at the paint store performance for the year being up in dollars and margin pressure being pretty minimal despite the volume challenges that you talked about and the raw material [indiscernible].
Can you give any more confidence about what the recovery could look like or where margins could return to if you do get the volume growth and the return to normal? Yes I think when you take a look at one tank [ph] the high points for the Paint Stores Group was 15% 15.7% operating margin.
I don't see anything structurally different.
We see that as a possibility in the future.
Our next question is coming from Dmitry Silversteyn of Longbow Research.
A lot of my questions have been answered but just to follow-up you did discuss the -- or at least directionally the volume performance of the stores group.
Assuming kind of similar levels of pricing for the Consumer Group it looks like your volumes were down significantly and significantly more than would be suggested by the loss of the Walmart business.
So anything happened in the Consumer Group in the fourth quarter to give you that result? Well first of all our selling price -- effective selling price is a little longer.
The cycle is a little longer in Consumer Group than it is in stores.
So they were not as -- it wasn't as high as it was in the stores.
I don't have that number exactly but having said that I think we were pretty happy the way the fourth quarter came out with Consumer Group.
Okay.
So 4% to 5% volume loss I guess was at the high end of your expectations is that what you're saying? Yes.
I mean I think without the Walmarts -- I think in the Walmart this was the last dramatic quarter we had to go through.
And I think that without that I think it was right where we -- where was our expectations.
All right very good.
Secondly on talking about margins and kind of the way to think about that for 2012 and beyond.
Clearly if raw material inflation stays as benign and I don't know if that's the right word to use but say ass benign as you think it will which is high single digits low double-digit type of inflation given high single-digit pricing that you pass through and the traction that you already got with your existing pricing it sounds like you should stay on par or maybe you can get ahead of raw materials a little bit.
So the gross margin side of the business looks like you're okay.
But what concerns me about your comment about margin improvement and year-over-year after 3 years of decline is that your fastest growth is happening in your Global Group and your Latin American Group both of which are lower-margin businesses.
So is the improvement you're seeking in your North American business is going to be sufficient to offset the negative mix if you will from the lower margin businesses growing faster in the external markets international markets? Well first of all Dmitry isn't it wonderful to be talking about benign raw material cost increases in the high single low doubles.
I mean where have we gotten to in this industry? I think you make a very good point about the faster growing segments over the past couple of years.
But I think what you should be reading into this guidance that we're giving today is that our stores business is clearly back on track and moving in a really solid direction here with the pricing leverage that we need.
We're giving guidance that we expect the gross margins to bottom and turn in fact to go the right direction.
As Sean commented we expect with that that the SG&amp;A numbers will continue to go the right direction as well and that the operating leverage for the entire company this year will be positive.
Okay very good.
And then finally you talked about the Global Group having the ability to reach 12% operating margin at sometime in the future.
It's almost a 10-point improvement that you're looking to gain there.
What's going to take you there and how long is that going to take? We have a couple of acquisitions that were significant in this business that were 1.5 to 2 years into the integration of it.
We talked last year I think on a number of the calls about the need for pricing in those businesses that we had not been as aggressive as we should have been given the careful stance we were taking as new owners of this business.
I think all of the kind of traditional work that we do here on pricing on the operating side of the business on the cost side of the business on the asset side of the business helps build these businesses in the right direction and all those things are as quick here.
To Sean's point we have been consistent about giving guidance that these businesses will constructurally get there.
There's nothing that's changed our opinion about that.
And if scale comes up on these countries we fully expect to get that accomplished.
Let me see if I can have this a different way.
How much of the profit improvement you're looking to get out of the Global Group is going to be improving the profitability of the 2 wood coatings businesses you bought in Europe versus just a maturation of already nice unit margin businesses you have in automotive aftermarket marine and productive and some other mid shift business that are part of the global group? I think we would expect to be getting slightly higher percentage operating lift from those businesses than they would play for their volume.
I mean they're early in their cycle and they should be ramping up quicker.
We gave you some guidance in terms of the size of those business when we acquired them relative the entire new size of the global group now that you have that data point.
But I think what's important to note is that all of the businesses both the domestic parts of those businesses as well as the other corners of the world we all expect those things to improve this year.
And I think that in the short term Chris is absolutely right.
But to answer your question a little differently just because of the size differential between the acquisition versus the core the absolute dollars will grow faster from the core just because that's 70% of the sales approximately.
And so the acquisitions that are 30% 35% a little higher than 30% -- our percentage will grow faster but the absolute dollars will grow faster in the core.
Our next question is coming from Eric Bosshard of Cleveland Research Company.
The volume numbers on the stores in the fourth quarter was also something we haven't seen in quite some time.
I'm curious Chris on the confidence that you have.
And I know that visibility is never great in this business but things you're looking at to give you some confidence on the sustainability or where that goes and what you're assuming what your guidance implies for that in 2012? Nick on that opening comment there -- you made a point that the 2012 was off to a solid start.
So we're seeing the kind of gallon numbers that we experienced ramping up in the fourth quarter continue on that same trend line into the first quarter of this year.
Of note we've just returned from Nashville Tennessee where we had 7 000 of our employees gathered in one room all of our store managers and field sales folks and it's always a terrific time to be with our team.
And the sense from their face-to-face contact with their customers would indicate that we're expecting that this industry is going to have a better gallon growth this year.
And the better is you commented when you went through the details that it's commercial and new resi is that sort of where the inflection is taking place? I think it's across the whole volume.
I think that was the question about kind of the range from Dennis at Delman [ph] about what's the high what's the low.
And we commented that both the res repaint and the DIY gallons continue to move up and the new commercial and new residential have gone positive.
So really across all these kind of breakout segments.
There was movement up by hundreds of basis points in the demand for gallon.
Not one went more aggressively than other but we got the negatives positive which was a really a good sign.
Our next question is coming from Nils Wallin of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> This year seems to be -- or at least this winter it's where we're probably running about 7% warmer than last year have you noticed any seasonality in the order patterns that you're seeing that you saw assuming in the fourth quarter and you're seeing so far this year in the first quarter? The first quarter is always a weather quarter.
Fortunately it's our smallest quarter of the year.
So there may be a little bit of that happening.
As we've had warmer weather in the upper Midwest and upper Northeast we've been getting wiped out in Texas and other places.
Per the earlier comment I guess was with our 5 Alaska store managers they've got 18 feet of snow in Alaska.
So I think there's marginal impact on weather but for the most part it's not that big of deal for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now I think in your guidance regarding the raw material basket you spoke mostly about TiO2 going up but some of the organics or resins getting some relief there.
Certainly there's an expectation in some parts of the market about propylene prices moving back up because of the ply [ph] constraints and what have you.
Now I know obviously as in propylene but it translates into downstream resins that you're buying.
What are you seeing or what are your expectations in that regard? And are you -- do you expect your resins -- do you expect there could be some resin increases later on in the year? The short answer is yes.
I think the rate of increase is likely to moderate compared to last year but our expectations for the raw material basket for the industry being up high single digits to low teens does incorporate some inflation on the non-pigment side of the raw material basket.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just more of I guess a broader look your control distribution model in North America is certainly envy of the industry but then it's probably a little bit different of how you would approach it in South America.
Are you looking for the same type of expanse and density of your distribution model in South America? And what type of investment do you think you'll need to make to get there? Yes good question.
Not every country and every market within the country fits the model as well as perhaps it does in North America.
So just to give you a little more clarity to that for example in Brazil within the southern part of the country around So Paulo and Rio traditional and very very strong independent paint dealer network that we sell our products through and want to continue to support those folks.
In the northeastern part of the country not so much and that's really  where we focus our store growth from an architectural neighborhood paint store.
Yes we would need the same kind of density in that geography within the country of Brazil and the economics are very similar to the U.S.
economics in terms of what it costs to open a store.
We rent these facilities we put about the same amount of inventory fixing et cetera into them.
So I don't think that we need to get to the 3 500 store count density model in the United States for Latin America to start showing the same kind of operating margins.
But suffice it to say there'll be pockets where we can run at that same density.
I hope that's helpful Nils.
Our next question is coming from John Roberts of Buckingham Research Group.
Inc.</strong> Did you leave all of the automotive refinish in the new global segment? Yes.
Inc.</strong> So you're going to keep that U.S.
everything all in that one place? Yes those businesses are on the industrial coating side global by nature.
So there still will be U.S.
businesses included in that global business.
Inc.</strong> Right and Latin America refinish as well.
Latin America? Yes.
The automotive refinish is in that global group.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then secondly as a leading indicator sometimes in the past you've talked about spray equipment ladders et cetera have you seen anything in your distribution sales to some of that stuff to give you encouragement as well? Yes the volume there is solid.
Sales are up double digits in those segments and just as a reminder though this is kind of the off-season for that when we get back to our first quarter call we'll really be in the second then we'll have a better feel for that.
But even in an off-season to be up solid double-digit sales gains on those types of things would be an indication of better confidence for our paint and contractors John.
Our next question is coming from Jeti Pandya [ph] of Berenberg Bank.
A couple of questions really quick.
You alluded to you are taking market share in a shrinking market.
Now thankfully and hope you are right.
The market is sort of starting to turn.
Now when it does turn I mean what sort of market share do you envisage? I mean do you expect to grow faster than guys with sort of stores and similar distribution network? And I'm referring to basically TPG [ph] [indiscernible]Valspar and that's the first question.
And then the second question is with regards to TiO2 per se I mean one of your very big suppliers is putting capacity in in a more midterm situation and they were saying that paint companies are trying to talk to them with regards to longer-term contracts.
Have you developed or have you had any longer-term contract with regards to securing supply for TiO2 per se simply because they were also alluding to the fact that TiO2 market in the U.S.
could become a bit tighter as the year progresses? Sure Jeti [ph].
I'll take the first question on the market share and ask Sean to comment a little bit about our titanium contract structure and how we think about that market.
Our expectation on market share is exactly to your point against the other operators of regional paint for a change.
And as a reminder we've shared with The Street frequently the kind of customer mix shift between painting contractors and do-it-yourself.
And as we start to see a little healthier economy i.e.
the housing starts increasing some of the commercial projects increasing we expect to see a rebound in the role of the painting contractors will play in the total purchases of these products and that bodes well for us.
We have a commanding lead on store count.
We're widening that gap on an annual basis.
All those things make sense that they should in fact deliver the higher market share for the company and typically that comes against those that are also providing products and services to painting contractors.
So that's where we expect to get it.
Having said that the DIY still is a sizable portion of the business in the market.
And again from earlier comments you know that we've been talking about really solid double-digit sales teams in our DIY business for a while.
So at least holding our own if not gaining a little bit of share from a small base to the stores platform on DIY.
So all in we think another solid market share opportunity year for us is coming up.
Sean you want to comment on the titanium for Jeti [ph]? Sure.
I would say that in the last few years this decade's really been one of the most volatile decades in raw material in all of raw materials.
But I would say that the word contract is sometimes overused.
I would say no we don't have contracts per se but probably have more agreements.
We will probably and we're always looking to make sure that we can take care of our customers.
We'd like to have only one price increase a year.
We've gone above that many many times.
So in the -- right now we're watching -- years ago we wanted to have a contract -- we were -- but we'd never buy a 100%.
You'd always want to be somewhat in the spot market.
I think the way these raw materials have been rising in the last few years they've been less optimistic about -- or less wanting to do a contract with us on a firm price.
I think that what we're doing as we're watching the market and if we see an opportunity to buy a longer-term contract we might do it.
But I would say it's more in the state of flux right now.
Maybe just a quick follow-up x TiO2 your raw materials bill is it fair to assume that it goes up maybe between 0% to 4% 3% 4%? I don't know if I'd put it in a range Jeti [ph].
I think that -- I think it's -- suffice it to say we do expect inflation on that side of the basket and it's one of the reasons why we give a range for raw materials in general is because rather than pinning it down to a specific inflation percent we know that that side of basket will go up.
Our next question is coming from Jeremy Brunelli of Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
I wanted to validate some of your comments versus what was in the press release.
I think you said in the Paint Stores Group that you saw improving volumes across most segments but it sounds like what you're saying is you saw it across all segments.
Should I interpret that that there were some segments that were kind of a flat growth pace from third quarter to fourth quarter? Is there any read into that? I think you for the fourth quarter it's all segments; for the year some segments.
And when we talked about the new residential piece of that really being the segment that improved that was the good news in the fourth quarter.
LLC</strong> Got you okay.
And I think you said that you saw ramping volumes does that mean like the pace of growth through the quarter was accelerating in 2012? Yes.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then do you have any sense in the I guess in the repaint market if there's been an inflection point between kind of strength and maintenance versus infection more towards bigger [indiscernible] capital improvement? We don't have a good feel for that one.
We don't give that perspective on a repaint job if it's because of a major remodeling job or commercial capital expenditure to your point.
We get great visibility between new constructions and maintenance but that is a fine line in fact that we don't really get that visibility Jeremy.
LLC</strong> Great.
And then one last question can you just remind us what the lead time is from when either from a permit or from a housing start to where the pro painters start to buy paint from you guys? On average in the residential market that would be about 6 to 8 months lag.
Our last question is coming from Jeffrey Zekauskas of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Do you worry that there's adequate TiO2 supply over a multiyear period if the coatings industry globally grows I don't know 3.5%? Well Jeff that's certainly a topical question for discussion and you have to go beyond the titanium producers to the ore producers to get your arms wrapped around that.
And I think there's been a lot more focus from the paint manufacturing side to do just that.
I certainly paid a lot more attention into the various minds and capacity around the world than we would have in past decades as we've been dealing with the titanium for some time.
And I think that it kind of depends on who you're talking to and who's trying to push pricing whose going to indicate what the availability is.
We are convinced that the core earth ore required to make titanium is an extremely plentiful ore in the world.
We're not worried about a shortage of that at any time in the future.
However the ability to mine it and get it out and have it ready to be converted is of some concern.
Just as we commented and the industry has commented on some of the capacity expansions that the producers are generating we see the same thing coming from the mining side as well.
Time will tell over how all that kind of comes together and if we end up with more shortages than not.
We've also talked regarding our ability to maybe offset some of this demand as well as some of our competitors are perhaps as aggressive if not more so than we are in that space.
So I think it's really early to comment on that.
We are quite confident that as we look out to 2012 and short term beyond that but that the availability of supply will be sufficient to fund the company's growth.
I'd like to hand the floor back over to management for any closing remarks.
Thank you Jackie.
Let me conclude this morning's call by asking you to save the date of Wednesday May 23 2012 on your calendars.
That's the date we'll host our annual financial community presentation this year at the Park Plaza Hotel in Boston.
The program will consist of our customary morning presentations with Q&amp;A followed by a reception and lunch.
Again that date is Wednesday May 23.
We'll be sending out invitations and related information in the coming weeks.
And again I'll be available over the balance of the day and this week to take your follow-up calls.
Thanks for joining us today and thank you for your continued interest in Sherwin-Williams.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining The Sherwin-Williams Company's Review of First Quarter 2012 Results and Expectations for the Second Quarter and Full Year.
With us on today's call are Chris Connor Chairman and CEO; Sean Hennessy Senior Vice President Finance and CFO; Al Mistysyn a Vice President Corporate Controller; and Bob Wells Senior Vice President Corporate Communications.
This conference call is being webcast simultaneously in listen-only mode by Vcall via the Internet at www.sherwin.com.
An archived replay of this webcast will be available at www.sherwin.com beginning approximately 2 hours after this conference call concludes and will be available until Wednesday May 9 at 5 p.m.
Eastern Standard Time.
This conference call will include certain forward-looking statements as defined under U.S.
federal securities laws with respect to sales earnings and other matters.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A full declaration regarding forward-looking statements is provided in the company's earnings release transmitted earlier this morning.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Bob Wells.
Thanks Jackie.
In order to allow more time for questions we've provided balance sheet items and other selected information on our website at www.sherwin.com under Investor Relations First Quarter Press Release.
Summarizing overall company performance for the first quarter 2012 versus first quarter 2011 consolidated net sales increased 15.1% to $2.14 billion due primarily to higher paint sales volume and selling price increases.
The combination of acquisitions and currency translation had little effect on sales in the quarter.
Consolidated gross profit dollars increased $112.4 million for the quarter to $909.8 million.
Gross margin decreased 40 basis points to 42.6% of sales from 43% in the first quarter last year.
Selling general and administrative expenses for the quarter increased $66.6 million over first quarter last year to $557.7 million.
As a percent of sales SG&amp;A decreased to 35.5% in the quarter this year from 37.2% last year.
Interest expense decreased $338 000 compared to first quarter last year.
Consolidated profit before taxes in the quarter increased $47.6 million or 50% to $142.3 million.
Our effective tax rate in the first quarter this year was 29.6% compared to 27.9% in the first quarter of 2011.
For the full year 2012 we expect our effective tax rate will be in the low 30% range compared to last year's rate of 40.4%.
As a reminder our 2011 income tax expense included a onetime income tax charge of approximately $75 million to satisfy our settlement with the IRS.
Consolidated net income increased $31.9 million to $100.2 million.
Net income as a percent of sales was 4.7% compared to 3.7% in the first quarter last year.
Diluted net income per common share for the quarter increased to $0.95 per share from $0.63 per share in 2011.
Looking at our results by operating segment.
For our Paint Stores Group in first quarter 2012 sales increased 20.9% to $1.12 billion from $929.3 million last year.
Comparable store sales that is sales by stores open more than 12 calendar months increased 20.4%.
The increase in sales for the segment was due primarily to higher paint sales volumes across all end market segments and higher selling prices.
Regionally in the first quarter our Midwest division led all divisions followed by the Eastern division Southwestern division and Southeastern division.
Segment profit for the group increased 63.7% to $112.7 million in the quarter as higher sales volume and selling pricing increases more than offset higher raw material costs and SG&amp;A spending.
Segment operating margin increased to 10% from 7.4% in the first quarter last year.
Turning to the Consumer Group.
Sales in the first quarter increased 8.6% to $320.4 million as a result of selling price increases and volume increases.
Segment profit for the Consumer Group increased 34.6% in the quarter to $55.3 million.
Segment profit as a percent of external sales increased to 17.3% from 13.9% in the same period last year.
The improvement in operating margin was due primarily to continued tight expense control and price increases that were partially offset by raw material cost increases.
For our Global Finishes Group sales in U.S.
dollars increased 11% to $483.1 million in the quarter due primarily to higher paint sales volume selling price increases and acquisitions.
In the quarter acquisitions increased net sales by 3.9% and unfavorable currency translation rate changes decreased sales by 2.3%.
First quarter segment profit increased 47.3% to $28.6 million due to higher sales volume and selling prices partially offset by higher raw material costs.
Currency rate changes and acquisition had no significant impact on segment profits in the quarter.
As a percent of sales segment profit increased to 5.9% from 4.5% in the same period last year.
For our Latin America Coatings Group first quarter net sales increased 7.1% to $208.6 million due primarily to selling price increases and higher sales volumes partially offset by unfavorable currency translation.
Currency translation rate changes decreased sales in U.S.
dollars by 5.6% in the quarter.
Stated in US dollars segment profit in the quarter increased 14.5% to $19.9 million due primarily to higher sales volume and price increases partially offset by raw material cost inflation.
Currency translation rate changes decreased segment profits by $1.4 million in the quarter.
As a percent of net sales segment operating profit was 9.5% in the quarter compared to 8.9% in the first quarter 2011.
Turning now to the balance sheet.
Our total debt on March 31 2012 was $1.32 billion including total short-term borrowings of $677 million.
Total debt on March 31 2011 was $1.34 billion.
Our cash balance at the end of the quarter was $25.5 million compared to $53.9 million at the end of first quarter 2011.
Total borrowings to capitalization were 46.7% at the end of the quarter versus 45.4% at the end of the first quarter last year.
Long-term debt to capitalization was 22.8% at the end of the quarter this year compared to 22.4% last year.
In the first quarter 2012 we spent $32.8 million on capital expenditure.
Depreciation expense was $37.9 million and amortization expense was $6.6 million.
For the full year this year we anticipate capital expenditures for the year will be approximately $130 million to $150 million depreciation will be about $150 million and amortization will be about $30 million.
I'll conclude this review with a brief comment on the status of our lead litigation.
In California the Santa Clara case involving 8 cities and counties in California and 5 former lead pigment manufacturers continue to move through the discovery phase.
A pretrial hearing is scheduled for May 22 and the court has set a trial date of September 10 2012.
Once discovery is completed the parties will have the opportunity to file dispositive pretrial motions.
That concludes our review of the results for first quarter 2012 so I'll turn the call over to Chris Connor who will make some general comments and highlight our expectations for second quarter and full year.
Chris? Thank you Bob.
And good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us today.
The preannouncement we issued on April 9 took some of the suspense out of today's release.
Our practice is to update guidance when it becomes apparent that we will exceed the top end of our original EPS range by the greater of 10% or $0.10 per share.
Our results in the first quarter easily cleared both of these hurdles.
Response to our preannouncement also gave us insight into some of the questions you're likely to have regarding our results for the quarter.
And I'm sure you'll have some additional questions but let me take a few minutes to address the obvious ones namely the sustainability of the strong demand we experienced in the quarter the current trajectory of raw material costs and the success of our recent price increases.
Starting with the demand front.
First quarter consolidated volumes net of acquisitions grew at the strongest pace we've seen since the first quarter of 2004.
Compared to our performance in the first quarter of last year demand strengthened in virtually every product category with every customer segment in every geographic region.
While it's difficult to quantify the impact of favorable weather in the United States had on first quarter volumes we are certain it did have some positive impact.
We're equally certain that the strong sales trends in the quarter are an indication that market demand is in fact improving.
Let me offer a couple of data points from our Paint Stores Group that I think support these conclusions.
First exterior paint sales volumes grew at a faster pace than interior which does suggest an early start to the exterior painting season.
However both exterior and interior grew at double-digit rates in both revenues and gallons.
Second we looked at our sales results by geographic region.
As Bob pointed out in his comments our 2 northern Paint Stores divisions turned into strongest year-over-year sales increases which would again suggest some weather impact.
However 3 of our 4 divisions grew sales by more than 20% and the fourth was up in the high teens.
The spread from the highest growth rate to the lowest was just over 5 percentage points.
We think this data confirms that there was likely some weather benefit in our first quarter results with equally convincing evidence that fundamental demand in the market is strengthening.
Even with the volume improvement we saw in the quarter the good news is that the market still has a long way to go to get back to what we consider to be sustainable levels.
Sales volume growth particularly by our Paint Stores Group was the overriding reason earnings came in above our initial expectations.
Consolidated gross margins in the quarter declined 40 basis points year-over-year primarily to the annualization of the raw material inflation we experienced in the last 9 months of 2011.
Although the price of high-grade chloride titanium dioxide continues to rise the magnitude of the price increase announcements has diminished in recent quarters and global demand for TiO2 has softened but it remains to be seen whether these increases will be fully implemented.
At this point however year-over-year raw material cost inflation appears to be on pace with the high single digit to low teens rate we anticipated for the year with most of the pressure coming from titanium dioxide.
We continue to make progress in implementing the price increases required to offset these raw material cost headwinds.
In the quarter pricing contributed just over half of the increase in our consolidated sales.
As our Paint Stores Group makes further progress in the October and February announcements the impact to pricing and revenues should increase modestly in the second quarter again which should result in sequential gross margin expansion.
It appears that the first quarter will be our most challenging quarter from a cost price standpoint.
Working capital for the company which is inventories plus receivables minus payables decreased as a percent of sales to 12.7% from 13.9% in the first quarter last year.
The change in working capital accounts and the increase in net income each added approximately $30 million to net operating cash in the quarter.
This increase in net operating cash was offset by a payment of $59 million to the IRS to complete our 2011 tax settlement.
During the quarter we acquired 1.8 million shares of the company stock for treasury at an average cost of $100.44 per share for a total investment of $181 million.
By March 31 we had remaining authorization to acquire 19.25 million shares.
Yesterday our Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.39 per share up from $0.365 last year keeping our string of 34 consecutive years of dividend increases intact.
We also continued to invest in our control distribution platform during the quarter.
Paint Stores Group added 5 net new stores bringing our total store count in the U.S.
Canada and the Caribbean to 3 455 stores compared to 3 397 one year ago.
Our plan continues to call for Paint Stores Group to add approximately 60 to 65 net new store locations during 2012.
Looking ahead we remain cautious in our outlook on raw material costs but are increasingly convinced that the improvement in market demand we've seen over the past few quarters will prove durable.
We anticipate that our consolidated net sales in the second quarter will increase 10% to 15% compared to last year's second quarter.
With sales at that level we expect diluted net income per common share for the second quarter to be in the range of $1.92 to $2.07 per share compared to last year's record performance of $1.66 per share.
For the full year 2012 we expect consolidated net sales to increase over 2011 by a high single digit to low teens percentage.
With the annual sales at that level we've increased our expectations for full year diluted net income per common share to be in the range of $5.75 to $6.05 per share compared to $4.14 per share earned in 2011.
Again I'd like to thank you for joining us this morning and now the team would be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from P.J.
Juvekar of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> SG&amp;A spending was up almost 10% year-over-year.
I was wondering if there was any pull forward or promotions or marketing expenses from spring season into 1Q.
P.J.
this is Sean Hennessy.
And we marginally spent a little more SG&amp;A on merchandising and advertisement but really no pull forward.
I think that the advertising plan that we -- had planned in the first quarter we ended up doing.
I think the majority of that when you take a look at that SG&amp;A increases with the sales increase that we had I think the hours in the stores and start seeing us putting more service hours in the store to make sure that the customer service is maintained.
So our SG&amp;A did go down as a percent of sales.
It did have an increase as a percentage you did mention.
But when the gallons are going that way you're going to see us continue to add service in the store to make sure that proper customer service is handled.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And secondly what are you seeing in the DIY versus the contractor channel? And is the contractor business coming back sustainably in your opinion? Yes P.J.
both of those segments as we commented had strong quarters for the company.
Speaking on our Stores business specifically the DIY business also enjoyed a double-digit sales which is consistent with the performance we've been seeing in the DIY side of that now for the last 5 or 6 quarters.
The good news in the quarter and the one that we've been saying should come at some time was the strength in the contractor segment again across all segments.
And for us that will be the new residential painting contractor the commercial painting contractor property management the residential repaint.
All of these segments are clicking and generating strong sales and volume gains.
Our next question's coming from Kevin McCarthy of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Chris with regard to your same-store sales growth of 20.4% in Paint Stores will you elaborate on how much of that might have been derived from volume versus price in the quarter roughly? Yes.
I think we've been commenting Kevin that our price impact in the Stores business had been in the high single digits over the last kind of third and fourth quarter of last year.
That trend continued into the first quarter of this year.
So slightly more than half of that lift for the company in the segment for the quarter was volume.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then given the trends that you're seeing on raw materials have you taken any very recent price actions since the 8% increase that I believe you were implementing for Feb 1? Or would that be likely in your view? Okay.
No additional pricing activity has taken place since the February announcement to our stores.
As is our practice with the investment community we don't preannounce any pricing activities.
We cover that off with our customers first and then provide great transparency to you.
So no comments on that at this time.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then finally Chris on the splits on the exterior architectural coatings versus interior I think you mentioned that those were up double digits.
Would you care to comment on the magnitude of that spread and how that would compare to normal trends with an eye toward disentangling the weather effects? Yes.
It's a little meaningless in the first quarter because historically our interior gallons are much much greater as they should be at that time of the year than exterior gallons.
So the percentage improvement one relative to the other kind of skews that.
I think the point that we'd like to make sure that the investment community understands is that the interior gallons were up double digit and that really gives us the confidence of the underlying strength in the market.
So exterior gallons outpaced that.
It was a good quarter for that but it's the interior numbers that really drove the quarter.
Our next question is coming from Jeff Zekauskas of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering about your Latin American operations.
Do you use chloride-based TiO2 there or sulfate-based TiO2? Predominantly chloride.
Research Division</strong> And is there very much of a price difference between chloride-based TiO2 these days and sulfate-based TiO2 on average? Jeff I don't have any data of -- at my fingertips on the spread.
I do know that a spread has opened up between chloride and sulfate.
I don't know what that spread is on the spot market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly are you looking at any large acquisitions this year or what's the probability that Sherwin-Williams might make a multibillion-dollar acquisition in 2012? Yes.
Jeff I think inappropriate to prospectively comment on acquisitions.
I think the best guidance for you is to look at the historical way the company's approached that.
Our track record has been to really find these terrific bolt-on acquisitions to strengthen our control distribution platform in the Americas or add technology to us.
And to the extent that we can continue to find those that add shareholder value we'll do those.
I think that's all we have to say on that at this time.
Research Division</strong> So a big acquisition the probability would be pretty small? Well just the logic of how many of those targets remain in the industry so -- I mean I wouldn't care to comment on that one way or the other.
Our next question is coming from Dennis McGill of Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> First Chris I just have to compliment you on knowing the underlying chemical makeup of the TiO2 in Latin America.
Impressive.
So just one big picture question.
You gave great data to understand the breadth of the recovery.
I guess just in your professional opinion kind of the gut reaction what's the best answer as to why? Why do you think it's so broad-based? And what happened of late that's kind of turned the corner for this for the consumer? Yes Dennis we've been commenting for a while about the unsustainable gallon volume numbers for the American professional coatings industry.
And as you recall after a rough start to the year last year with negative volumes flattening out in the second slightly up in the third and then trending better in the fourth I think we commented on the fourth quarter call that that momentum would be continuing to carry through.
We were confident there was pent-up demand for normal maintenance and decorating that was needed to be addressed.
And I think as -- we just said 4 years is an awful long cycle to go through that the past cycles would show that this would start to rebound.
We expected the contractor share of the end market would rebound back towards the 50% more historic run rate level and that having gained share in the downturn that we feel in good position to capitalize on it.
And all those factors kind of started to come to fruition in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate that.
And then the second comment I imagine you'd normally only dream about double-digit volume growth.
So now that you've seen it and you've seen how the cost structure reacts what would you say relative to your expectation heading into this year about your ability to lever volume in which you found in the first quarter relative to that? Yes.
I think we feel very good about the leverage that we've had.
If you look at the flow-through that Stores had and I think we've made comments for many many years that when we give volume we'd have flow-through and last year [ph] we used to talk about 3%.
And once we got past 3% you'd see it.
And then after the downturn that Chris talked about with the volumes in North America and when you take a look at the increases in the flow-through we had in the first quarter we feel pretty good about the operations and net of gallons continue -- will continue to flow through operating profit.
Research Division</strong> So Sean is it fair to say that what you saw in the expense leverage is what you would have expected for this given level of volume? Yes.
Our next question is coming from Chuck Cerankosky of Northcoast Research.
First question looking at the 260 basis points of margin improvement in the Paint Stores segment in the quarter I don't think you got any help with the gross margin line there so it was all leverage.
Sean what kind of -- what does that tell us about the opportunity for further margin expansion or the cadence thereof over the rest of this year? Yes.
Chuck as I'm sure you recall 15.5% operating margins was our peak at Stores Group and that happened in 2007.
And as the volume went down -- last year we were in the 13s.
So we take a look at it.
We think that -- we always felt that the 15.5% was not a -- not just a onetime event.
I think that we thought that eventually we could get back to that point in the way that we structured and the way that we've continued to build out the Stores group we feel that that's not the ceiling.
That we think eventually we'll be above that 15.5% operating margin.
You think you'll hit it this year? Well we don't forecast segments and so forth.
So -- but I'll tell you what first quarter is up 2.6%.
We were 13.1% in the year.
If we did that every quarter we'd be at 15.7%.
We're not forecasting our -- we're not giving guidance for that though Chuck.
I read you I read you.
It was pretty impressive.
Am I right though you had gross profit margin pressure in Paint Stores in the quarter? Yes.
Yes.
In the Q when you get a chance when we submit our Q and a add-on line [ph] you're going to see that the incremental gross margin dollars were up $80 million.
That will be what we write and so right there you'll see that that will show you that's where we were.
All right.
When you look across your various paint lines whether it's DIY or contractor brands or it's Pratt &amp; Lambert or Dutch Boy or Sherwin-Williams with the price increases that we've seen what quality levels were your customers buying in the quarter? Maybe there's not a general answer to this but were they trading up for quality? Were they affected? Is product mix affected by price? Yes.
We've commented on that historically Chuck and I think the same trends are in effect here.
We continue to enjoy the modest shift mix towards better quality products.
Again if the contractor business has strengthened they tend to be a high-quality purchaser to reduce their labor costs.
So all good news there nothing new to report.
All right.
And in the rest of the year you're going to have -- well I guess more for the second quarter by a 10% price tailwind.
With this kind of volume growth it seems to me your sales expectation is a little conservative.
Would that be a fair way to characterize it? Yes.
We've also got some -- we're taking a look at the currency and someone mentioned Latin America Group earlier.
Latin America Group had a pretty sizable currency and you look at what's happened in Real and you look what happens with the Mexican peso and then euro.
Last year the euro was about $1.34.
Right now we're watching the euro.
So I think -- we don't do segments but I think if you look at the segments that'll probably tell you that of all the segments we think probably Stores Group is going to lead us again in the second quarter.
Our next question is coming from Bob Koort of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> It's Brian Maguire for Bob this morning.
Just one other data point on that is something you could provide.
Maybe just comment on the inter-quarter trend you saw there and how that -- those volume numbers really trended particularly at the end of the first quarter when you got into some more normal weather patterns and maybe even into April if you got any data you could share? Yes.
I think that the quarter was pretty steady throughout all 3 months which again back to your comment Brian should give some comment to the underlying market strength as opposed to the particular weather.
The best day we had in the quarter was February 29 because leap year goes up against nothing.
When you're a retailer leap year matters.
But other than that it was just really a very solid quarter throughout the entire 3 months.
Research Division</strong> Great yes.
And then looking at the difference between the Consumer growth and the Paint Stores growth you try and extrapolate the volume growth and Consumer maybe it was low-single -- low- to mid-single digit volume growth.
But it seemed like maybe 1/2 to -- 1/3 to 1/2 of what it was at the Paint Stores.
How do you kind of reconcile the big difference in the volume growth between those 2 channels? There's a couple of things.
We don't -- the reason we always -- when we try to give you a flavor for the comp stores is really for pricing.
We don't really release unit volume gallon just volume throughout the Consumer because in Consumer you have Thompson there.
You have Minwax.
You have brushes rollers caulk frame and paint.
So unit movement is really tough to see but there's no doubt that the Stores Group was definitely stronger than in the Consumer.
But there was a lot of other moving parts in that Consumer relating to a lot of other product lines.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- and just one last question if I might on the -- your inventory levels.
Have you been doubling inventory? Or -- we've heard from some of the -- 2 producers that they continue to see de-stocking in their chains.
Have you tried to take advantage of some of the softness there to do some pre-buying or building your inventory levels? I guess you're kind of peaking on your inventory levels now or as you head into the more normal painting season.
But any sense of any change versus 1 year ago in the inventory? We always build inventory in the first quarter.
If you watch we do have enough capacity to supply every gallon of paint that we sell in June July and August.
So there's such a sales curve in our business.
In the first quarter we're always going to build inventory.
If you look at it we feel pretty good about where our inventories are.
We had more inventory in finished goods last year.
But last year there was a lot of concerns about titanium dioxide shortages or raw material shortages and that's really what drove it last year.
We find that pre-buying or doing different things with different raw materials the efficiencies of our operation we're better off -- instead of having more invested the amount that you're going to pre-buy or pre-produce really doesn't change a great deal so -- versus trying to find locations to bring that inventory in and handle it multiple times.
So we feel this quarter was a pretty normal quarter.
It went up against last year where we did pre-build some finished goods inventory.
But this year's pretty normal and we feel pretty good at where we're at.
Our next question is coming from Don Carson of Susquehanna Financial Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> A question on -- first on guidance.
I know you beat the midpoint of your original first quarter guidance by about $0.30 yet you're only taking up your full year guidance by about $0.38.
As we get into the seasonally strong second quarter shouldn't this emerging volume recovery both in the overall market and contractor sales lead to more earnings leverage? Yes.
Don I would tell you that typically -- we talked about the sales curve here.
The first quarter is our lowest and smallest quarter.
So when you put that gallon through that has a nice effect on us.
And I think that typically I would tell you it's a -- very few times have we changed our full year guidance after the first quarter up or down because sometimes we'll actually say a good week in June takes care of a month of February -- a bad month of February.
But when you sit there and take a look at it the first -- the full year guidance there's a lot of different things moving in and out.
And you typically in the first quarter we'll see what happens in the second and third.
Someone had just mentioned to me that the last time we had 20% comp store gains were back in 1994.
So to sit there and say that that occurred at the smallest quarter of the year -- will that continue in the larger ones? But it's only happened once in the last 18 years.
So to project that out to the next 3 quarters we don't have that in our guidance.
LLLP Research Division</strong> A question for Chris on your view of the overall market.
I think by your numbers you're showing what 612 million gallons of U.S.
volumes last year for the industry which was down slightly.
What kind of recovery do you see this year in percentage terms? And do you still think that maybe 700 million-plus is the normalized level for the U.S.
market? Yes Don we're absolutely convinced that over 700 million gallons is the normalized volume level for the U.S.
market.
That would indicate that housing starts would be back over 1 million 1.2 million 1.3 million perhaps.
Existing home turnover numbers would be back to more normalized run rates in the plus or minus 6 million units per year and then a more normalized maintenance and decorating schedule.
So as we come out of this historic downturn in volumes and to your point negative again last year to 612 million we think there's a several year ramp-up here of maybe 2x 3x the GDP growth which has been the historical growth rate for architectural gallons.
And to Sean's point it's very difficult after one quarter and the lightest quarter of the year to indicate that that's going to be that strong going forward.
We do take great comfort in all the anecdotal conversations that we have with thousands and thousands of painting contractors in our stores every day and listen to them talk about the work they have lined up for the year the fact that they're hiring crews and adding painters to their teams or purchases of the kinds of equipment and materials that they would need for a busy season are ramping up as well.
So all these would indicate to us is that 612 million gallon number that the industry saw last year should in fact be moving towards the positive direction.
And time will tell how long it takes us to get back up over 700 million gallons.
Our next question is coming from Dmitry Silversteyn of Longbow Research.
Just wanted to follow through on the raw materials situation.
You gave kind of your expectations for the year which should maintain at high single digit to low teens.
If you look at the impact of raw materials had on your quarter can you talk about both on year-over-year and quarter-on-quarter basis what you saw and what you expect to see in the second quarter? Yes Dmitry.
Without getting too specific the first quarter would obviously have the most annualization impact in it from the inflation that we saw in 2011.
So with a high single digit to low teens expectation for the year even if there was very little incremental inflation from Jan 1 to March 31 you would expect that first quarter raw material costs would be at the high end of that range for the year.
On year-over-year basis? Yes.
Okay.
And versus the fourth quarter your raw materials kept going up and I would imagine that the fourth quarter raw materials purchases flowed through your P&amp;L in the first quarter.
So was raw material actually a benefit to your margins in the first quarter? No.
There was some incremental inflation from 4Q to 1Q sequentially.
Okay.
Was there a deflation in 4Q versus 3Q of last year do you remember? No.
Each quarter with the increase of our raw materials the increases occurred.
Second quarter was higher than the first quarter.
The third quarter was higher than the second quarter.
And the fourth quarter was higher than third quarter.
So you didn't see the raw materials declining in the fourth quarter like most other petrochemical purchasers have seen? Well we didn't necessarily make that comment with reference to any specific component of the raw material basket but the basket in total inflated each quarter last year primarily driven by titanium dioxide.
Got it.
Okay that's helpful.
Okay.
And the second question obviously double-digit rate of growth may not be sustainable.
Certainly I don't think it's sustainable for the year.
But do you think at least high single digits is possible as we get into the second quarter that in other words whatever external paint demand was pulled into the first quarter should not -- as you mentioned it wasn't meaningful enough to impact assuming weather cooperates the normal painting season in the second quarter.
So you're still looking -- I'm assuming you're still looking for close to double-digit growth in volumes in the second quarter of the year as well.
Well we did forecast sales at 10% to 15% and I think that that's the consolidated number.
And I think that when you take a look at it Chris mentioned how much was the selling price was for the Stores Group but I think that you make your thoughts on that.
Okay.
And then final question given that you probably have more volume leverage I would assume in your Stores Group than in the Consumer Group and your Stores Group volumes look like they were stronger year-over-year in terms of growth versus the Consumer Group.
What's accounting for the fact that your margins in the Consumer Group expanded so much more than it did in the Paint Store Group? Well I think number one they had a nice sales gain and I think that they've been working on some margin improvement.
And I think that if you look at the Stores Group we were increased on our SG&amp;A.
We're feeling that whereas in the Consumer Group you don't see it.
And then [indiscernible] the takes as the Consumer Group is making the paint for the Paint Stores Group.
And so when you see that volume increase you'll see that they do get the benefit of that.
On the gross margin side but not necessarily on the -- not necessarily in the operating margin side right because you don't have the fixed cost of your stores in the Consumer Group? Right which is why I'm saying that when the one went from 7.4% to 10% which was pretty strong we feel pretty good about it Consumer actually grew faster than that and that's because of the incremental SG&amp;A that went into Stores.
Got it.
And that incremental SG&amp;A was that just considered a onetime campaigns and setting up posters and new displays? Or is it going be an ongoing...
No it was headcount.
I mean it's ongoing.
We did put more hours into the store to satisfy the customer's needs.
So as long as there's good demand you expect to continue to pay your guys overtime which is a high-priced problem to have? Right.
And not so much overtime.
It just -- when we say putting hours in we're ramping up.
We're hiring more people and staffing these stores at a better level Dmitry.
Our next question is coming from Eric Bosshard of Cleveland Research Company.
A question on gross margin.
We saw the volume posit that held forward [ph] in the first quarter.
In terms of the gross margin recovery I think you've talked about 43% to 46%.
I'm just interested if that's still the range you're targeting and how you think the pace of recovery plays out back towards that as we move forward.
Not necessarily talking about the second quarter but over the call it medium term.
Yes.
I think that the long term we still believe the 43% to 46% number is a good number Eric.
And in the meantime in the short term I think that -- or midterm whatever you want to call it we think that -- we talked about the first quarter really being the toughest when it comes to this raw material annualization.
We think that we're probably going to start seeing some better comparisons to last year.
Last year we came in at 42.7% for the year.
So on a quarter-by-quarter basis I think you're going to see better comparisons and I think you'll see the first one in the second quarter.
Great.
And then secondly on the SG&amp;A and -- on the SG&amp;A -- rate of SG&amp;A growth and I understand in 1Q there were a few moving parts but can you talk about a little bit about the discipline of how SG&amp;A should grow relative to either sales dollar growth or volume growth? I know you talked a little a bit about that last quarter but can you just sort of refine how we should be thinking about that? Yes.
I think that -- and this is where you get into -- we -- we're always looking to get improvement in the operational efficiencies.
So we look at our gallons per full time equivalent.
We also look at sales per full time equivalent.
Some of those have been tougher to watch Eric because of the selling prices have gone over the last 2 to 3 years.
You can imagine it was easier to get sales per full time equivalent increase than it was gallon per full time equivalent.
So it's hard to give you a metric that I would tell you "Here's how you should build your models and here's why." When you take a look at where we are a lot of times on the plant side we know pretty well where we're going to be in total capacity and where we are in capacity utilization because around the country you might have stores that are in different spots of the utilization.
So as those gallons grow in certain parts -- and you can imagine we're very tight when it comes to the fourth quarter and first quarter on overtime and part-time hours.
And when the demand came and there was demand everywhere you saw SG&amp;A and hours growing at -- in the Midwest division and Eastern division.
So I think that probably the best venture I can tell you if we have those kinds of gallon gains for the short period you're going to see our SG&amp;A grow in the 6% to 8% to 9%.
When that starts coming down then I think you'll see that go down.
Our next question is coming from Nils Wallin of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> First off I guess is there a way either quantitatively or qualitatively to break out the type of demand you saw? How much of that you thought was pent-up demand? How much of it was the normal type of growth you would see from maintenance and property management? Yes.
That's a good question Nils.
I don't know that we have much more data to offer you than kind of the historic growth of the industry.
We long believe that architectural paint volumes move pretty much in lockstep with GDP growth.
So to the extent that the market's growing -- the broader economic market is growing in a 1% to 2% gallons should move at that pace.
Sherwin has long believed that we can gain share in any cycle and that we would grow at 2x that.
And then you put our kind of strong gallon performance for the quarter and figure out that some of that is rebound and pent-up demand and some of it is outperforming our competitors.
Not quite sure that I can offer much more than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
It looks like you've built out more stores -- or extended more stores in the Southwestern division kind of year-over-year or at least 2011 versus 2010.
And I'm wondering is that a conscious decision because some of those areas were the most hurt during the downturn so you figured those will be the ones that will rebound the quickest? Or is it lack of representation or share gains? Yes.
We take the long-term view on the right markets to be putting our stores in.
I think we've shared with the investment community a density map that shows that the western part of the United States is where our household penetration is at its lowest levels.
Last year's numbers reflect a little bit more of a focus in California real estate development and strong store count adds in that market drove that number.
Our next question is coming from Aram Rubinson of Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> Two things.
One is would you mind giving us a little bit more color on that gross profit dollar that you gave us for the Paint Stores Group for the other divisions if you don't mind? Sure.
What's going to happen is -- and just give me a few seconds here.
Stores group was $80 million and the incremental gross margin dollars I think was $60 million.
And the Global Finishes Group I think it's right around $10 million.
And then you have over in the Latin America group $16 million -- oh I'm sorry I said that wrong.
$3 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay so $80 million $60 million $10 million and $3 million? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Two other quick ones just to follow up.
I appreciate that opening stores is a difficult task both between situating them and also having human capital to open them professionally.
There are companies like Dollar General that are opening 650 stores while you guys are opening 60.
So in other words it's probably possible to open more effectively.
I'm wondering when you'll step on the gas and what you'd still need to see and what -- how high is up maybe on that metric for you? Well our hats off to Dollar General.
2 stores a day for a year that's a hell of a pace.
We've run as hard Bob [ph] as 100 to 120 at our peak.
And I think that we've commented in the last couple of years that with the significant downturn in the market we've kind of considered ourselves at idle speed at this 50 to 60 store pace.
Our expectations are that that number will begin to ramp up.
We expect to do more this year than last year.
And I think that we're going to continue to do more going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the final question if you don't mind is just a comment on the administrative segment.
It looks like a very high number $74 million.
I think that was the -- maybe there was one other quarter that was that high in the past 10 quarters.
What should we think in terms of modeling for that since it's a little bit less of kind of a straight line? How can we think about number for the year? Yes.
I think when you take a look at that $74 million we were up $22 million so we're up over 40%.
Last year at around $243 million for the year.
I don't think we're going to grow at 40% but I could see that growing at 10% to 15% for the year.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is coming from Chuck Cerankosky of Northcoast Research.
Yes Sean just as a follow-up.
I was looking at the others items in your P&amp;L.
The foreign currency gain was a nice swing in your favor.
Was that cash or is it just a function of booking assets held outside the U.S.? It was the latter Chuck and it was really just an intercompany asset between us and Mexico with the Mexican changes there.
So that's where -- you're right the $5 million versus last year's $1.3 million.
But there was the pounds from Great Britain and the Mexican peso with the assets on the balance sheet.
At this time there are no further questions.
I'd like to hand the floor back over to Mr.
Bob Wells for any closing remarks.
Thanks Jackie.
As a reminder our annual financial community presentation is scheduled for Wednesday May 23.
It will be held at the Park Plaza Hotel in Boston.
The program will consist of our customary morning presentations with questions and answers followed by a reception and lunch.
And if you haven't signed up and would like to attend there's still time.
Please send me an e-mail at rjwells@sherwin.com and I'll reply with a link to our registration site.
Thanks again for joining us today and thank you for your continued interest in Sherwin-Williams.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining The Sherwin-Williams Company's review of the second quarter 2012 financial results and expectations for the third quarter and full year.
With us on today's call are Chris Connor Chairman and CEO; Sean Hennessy Senior Vice President Finance and CFO; Al Mistysyn Vice President Corporate Controller; and Bob Wells Senior Vice President Corporate Communications and Public Affairs.
This conference call is being webcast simultaneously in listen-only mode by Vcall via the Internet at www.sherwin.com.
An archived replay of this webcast will be available at www.sherwin.com beginning approximately 2 hours after this conference call concludes and will be available until Wednesday August 8 2012 at 5 p.m.
Eastern Time.
This conference call will include certain forward-looking statements as defined under U.S.
federal securities laws with respect to sales earnings and other matters.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A full declaration regarding forward-looking statements is provided in the company's earnings release transmitted earlier this morning.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Bob Wells.
Thanks Claudia.
Summarizing overall key performance for the second quarter 2012 versus second quarter 2011 consolidated net sales increased $218.3 million or 9.3% to $2.57 billion due primarily to higher paint sales volume in our Paint Stores Group and selling price increase across all segments.
Unfavorable currency translation rate changes decreased consolidated net sales 2.5% and acquisitions added 1% to net sales in the quarter.
Consolidated gross profit dollars increased $127.8 million for the quarter to $1.15 billion.
Gross margin increased 130 basis points year-over-year to 44.7% of sales from 43.4% in the second quarter last year.
Selling general and administrative expenses for the quarter increased 7.2% to $810.2 million.
As a percent of sales SG&amp;A decreased to 31.5% in the second quarter this year from 32.1% last year.
Interest expense for the quarter was $10.2 million a decrease of $1.5 million compared to second quarter last year.
Other general expense net increased $3.8 million year-over-year due primarily to higher environmental expense.
Consolidated profit before taxes in the quarter increased $70.8 million or 27.5% to $327.8 million.
Our effective tax rate in the second quarter this year was 30.5% compared to 30.3% in the second quarter of 2011.
For the full year 2012 we expect our effective tax rate to be in the low 30% range compared to last year's rate of 40.4%.
Consolidated net income increased $48.7 million or 27.2% to $227.8 million.
Net income as a percent of sales was 8.9% compared to 7.6% in the second quarter last year.
Diluted net income per common share for the quarter increased 30.7% to $2.17 per share from $1.66 per share in 2011.
Looking at our results by operating segment.
Paint Stores Group sales in the second quarter increased 14.6% to $1.49 billion.
Comparable store sales or sales by stores open more than 12 calendar months increased 13.9%.
Regionally in the second quarter our Midwestern division led all divisions followed by Southwestern division Southeastern division and Eastern division.
Sales by all 4 Paint Stores divisions rose double digits in the second quarter compared to last year.
Paint Stores Group segment profit for the quarter increased $60.4 million or 29.2% to $267 million and segment margin in the quarter increased to 17.9% from 15.9% last year.
Turning to our Consumer Group.
Sales in the second quarter increased 5.9% to $397.7 million.
Acquisitions increased consumer segment sales 1.5% in the quarter.
Segment profit for the Consumer Group increased $19.4 million or 31.6% to $80.8 million in the quarter.
Segment profit as a percent of external sales increased to 20.3% from 16.3% in the same period last year.
For our Global Finishes Group second quarter sales in U.S.
dollars increased 3.3% to $498.7 million.
Acquisitions increased net sales in U.S.
dollars by approximately 3.8% while unfavorable currency translation decreased sales by 5.4%.
Segment profit in U.S.
dollars increased 58.8% in the quarter to $48 million.
Acquisitions increased segment profit approximately $600 000 in the quarter and unfavorable currency translation rate changes decreased segment profit $4.4 million.
As a percent to net external sales Global Finishes Group segment profit was 9.6% in the quarter compared to 6.3% last year.
For our Latin America Coatings Group second quarter net sales in U.S.
dollars decreased 4.5% to $187.3 million.
Unfavorable currency translation rate changes decreased net sales by 14.5% in the quarter.
Stated in U.S.
dollars segment profit decreased $9.3 million in the quarter from $15.8 million last year.
Unfavorable currency translation rate changes decreased segment profit $2.6 million.
As a percent of net sales segment operating profit was 5% in the quarter compared to 8.1% in second quarter 2011.
I'll conclude my remarks on the quarter with a brief update on the status of our Lead Pigment Litigation.
The Santa Clara case involving claims in public nuisance brought by 10 cities and counties in California against 5 to 10 companies continues to move forward.
At a pretrial hearing held in May the judge presiding over the case moved the trial date from September of this year to March 11 2013 to allow the parties more time to complete the discovery process and file dispositive pretrial motions.
That concludes our review of the results for the second quarter 2012 so I'll turn the call over to Chris Connor who will make some general comments and highlight our expectations for the third quarter and full year.
Chris? Thank you Bob.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us today.
With a very solid first half of 2012 now on the books we feel very good about our prospects for the full year.
Although we face some tougher comparisons in the second half and particularly in the fourth quarter we're confident that we can continue to outpace the market in both revenue and volume growth and maintain the strong operating momentum we've established in the first half.
Whether you look at our results for the quarter or for 6 months the operating leverage and incremental sales volume is pretty easy to spot.
In the quarter we grew net income 27% and earnings per share 31% on a 9% sales gain.
Flow-through on the incremental sales of our 4 reportable segments combined passed 41% in the second quarter and 32% in the first half.
We controlled our SG&amp;A spending and managed working capital well and generated strong 6-month net operating cash.
The strength in our second quarter results is primarily from the North American market.
We often have refer to the specific end market segments that we serve in our Paint Stores Group.
In the second quarter sales to the new residential painting contractor the residential repaint contractor property management commercial contractors DIY customers protected and marine contractors and product finishes all grew double digits led by both the new residential and residential repaint segments which were up double digits and down volume as well.
Our Consumer Group delivered solid growth across all major brands and product categories.
And our automotive finishes product finishes and protected and marine coatings businesses in North America were strong across the board.
Even as the domestic economy showed signs of slowing the second quarter demand for our products held up well and our pricing remains firm.
Over the past few months we've seen the price of high-grade chloride titanium dioxide stabilize due to weak industry demand and we believe this trend is likely to continue over the balance of 2012.
This factor combined with a fairly sharp drop in the price of propylene a key feedstock for monomers latex solvents and containers should help to curb the rate of raw material inflation going forward.
Based on these developments we now expect average year-over-year raw material cost inflation for the paints and coatings industry to be in the mid- to high-single-digit range in 2012 down from our previous guidance of high single to low double-digits.
The significant jump in our consolidated gross margin in the quarter was the result of 2 factors.
First the increase in production volume; and second an adjustment in our second quarter LIFO accrual consistent with our long-standing LIFO accounting practices to reflect our revised outlook for raw material inflation.
Because these factors can cause distortions in our gross margin from quarter-to-quarter comparing our year-to-date gross margin of 43.8% to last year's 43.2% an improvement of 60 basis points is a better representation of the progress that we have made in offsetting persistent raw material inflation.
In the first 6 months of 2012 we generated $202 million in net operating cash an increase of $94 million over the first half of 2011.
Cash from operations actually increased $153 million to $261 million before payment of $59 million to the IRS in the first quarter to complete our 2011 tax settlement.
Our working capital which we describe as receivables plus inventories minus payables decreased as a percent of sales to 12.6% from 14.9% in the second quarter last year.
The change in working capital increased net operating cash by approximately $71 million.
We continue to use the company's cash to purchase shares of our stock for treasury increase our cash dividend and expand our controlled distribution platform.
During the quarter we acquired 1.5 million shares of the company stock for treasury bringing our total year-to-date purchase activity to 3.3 million shares at an average cost of $109.89 per share for a total investment of $363 million.
On June 30 we had remaining authorization to acquire 17.75 million shares.
Yesterday our Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.39 per share up from $0.365 per share last year.
Our store growth over the past 4 years combined with innovative new products marketing programs and sales initiatives have resulted in steady market share gains in most contractor segments and double-digit growth in DIY sales 6 of the past 8 quarters.
So far this year our Paint Stores Group has added 20 net new stores 15 of which were opened in the second quarter.
This brings our total store count in the U.S.
Canada and the Caribbean to 3 470 locations compared to 3 408 a year ago.
As we commented in April we are ramping up our new store opening activity and our Paint Store Group plans to add approximately 60 to 65 net new store locations during the year.
Looking ahead the outlook for global economic growth has become increasingly gloomy and risks to the U.S.
economy have increased accordingly.
Thus far paints and coatings demand in our domestic businesses has remained resilient.
We are optimistic that domestic architectural paint market volumes primarily in the residential segments will remain positive over the balance of the painting season and demand for most industrial coatings will continue to expand.
The greatest challenges in the second half are likely to be the worsening market conditions in Latin America and Europe and the increasingly difficult comparisons from the second half of 2011.
Our outlook for the third quarter 2012 is for consolidated net sales to increase in the mid-single digits compared to last year's third quarter.
With sales at this level we expect diluted net income per common share for the quarter to be in the range of $2.05 to $2.20 per share compared to $1.71 per share in 2011.
For the full year 2011 we expect consolidated net sales to increase in the high single digits to low teens over last year.
With annual sales at that level we've raised our expectation for diluted net income per common share for 2012 to be in the range of $6.20 to $6.40 per share compared to $4.14 per share earned in 2011.
Again let me thank all of you for joining us this morning.
And now we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from the line of John McNulty with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Looking at the Paint Store segment when we look at the growth the 14.5% looks pretty solid.
It's down from the levels that you saw in the first quarter.
And I guess I'm wondering what the drivers are.
Is it all weather that we've kind of talked about last quarter a lot? Or is it are there other things going whether it's pricing decelerating or actual core growth decelerating? How should we think about that? Yes.
I think you should think about it John as a heck of a strong quarter for the Paint Stores Group 14% consolidated sales.
When we look at some of the competitive numbers that are coming out it's terrific.
We commented that the first quarter is the smallest quarter for the year.
We did have unusually good weather.
We said we didn't think we'd pull much demand forward and gave guidance that we'd see the strong double-digit sales gain in the second quarter.
And that's exactly what happened.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then just one follow-up.
On the margin side when we look -- the consumer segment year-over-year had actually a better improvement than the Paint Store side which I guess to us is a little bit counterintuitive given who your customers are.
So can you walk us through the dynamics of what may be driving that improvement versus maybe a slightly smaller improvement on the Paint Store side? That was as Chris said great quarter.
John this is Sean Hennessy.
And when you take a look at the gallons that were going through the manufacturing the logistics the warehouse systems over there it was a nice quarter for the Consumer Group on their own.
But they also had some really nice improvement with the efficiencies of those gallons.
I will go back and just remind you when we take a look at our company the gallons that we can put through that stores chain and go through that consumer chain.
That's really when you look at that incremental margin that Chris mentioned in his comments that's really where we get it.
And so this is not uncommon.
If you look at the margins 3 4 years ago the peak margins of consumers have always been higher than stores.
But what we've said is consumers will be more stable.
Our next question is coming from the line of Ivan Marcuse with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> In your same-store sales growth of 13.9% how much of that was price would you gauge? Yes.
We basically have given some directional color here.
We said that volumes were more significant than price.
Price was mid-single-digits.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then if you -- you mentioned that the economy is showing some weakness.
Did you see any sort of like if you look at the quarter month-to-month-to-month did you see any sort of sequential slowdown? And then if not if it remained pretty steady is there any reason to think that it wouldn't remain steady going into the third quarter which is probably typically your strongest quarter? Yes.
I would say throughout the quarter Ivan the performance is pretty steady month-to-month-to-month.
I think we're listening to some of the comments relative to more of the industrial sector of the U.S.
economy slowing down a little bit.
But as we've commented in the third quarter we expect the domestic residential architectural volume to remain strong.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my last question in raw materials for the quarter where would you gauge them up on a year-over-year basis? With the range of mid- to high single digits Ivan it's likely for the industry that raw -- the raw material basket was up -- towards the upper end of that range for 2Q just because of the annualization of inflation last year.
Our next question is coming from the line of Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> Just real quickly Bob on continuing that last question what would the exit rate be for the year based on the guidance for the full year on the raw material inflation? Probably below the low end of that range in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Still positive though? Yes and obviously Dennis it depends on where they go from here.
But based on the trends that we're seeing now that we based our outlook of mid- to high single-digits on it's going to be mid-single digits at worst in the fourth quarter probably a bit below that.
Research Division</strong> And then Chris your comment on incremental margins for the first half of the year being around I think 30% for the 3 segments combined -- or 4 segments combined.
For the full half is there still a drag of price versus raw materials embedded in that? Yes.
I mean the margin performance is behind last year's performance at that point.
So there's absolutely a drag on raw still [ph].
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then there would also be a drag embedded in that from currency? Definitely yes.
On both sides.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last question having to do with price.
I think I hit around this quickly but price decelerated in Paint Stores 1Q to 2Q.
Can you just clarify that if that's true and I have just a follow-up on that.
Yes I think when you take a look at it let me just answer that from the first Q to the second Q.
So this is -- when you take a look at the effect of -- let me just talk about the effectiveness of price increases over the year.
We've always said and we were always realizing about 75%.
And going into this raw material escalation we continued -- as we continue to see more and more price increases and so forth what you -- what we start to see is that effectiveness started going down from 75%.
I don't think -- I think it's pretty natural when you hear Chris' comments that comp store is up 13.9% over half of that -- I mean it was over -- it was volume.
That tells you that price and the amount of price we put in you multiply it out that you would say that anniversarying some of these things we didn't get 75%.
We also think we probably have gotten the majority.
So when you take a look at it we did anniversary a price increase in June of last year which when you sit there and take a look at June we did see a -- in fact it did have some effectiveness and we started seeing the price difference so a little bit lower in June versus the other 2 months just as we annualized that price increase.
But that's how I would say it's because of that June anniversary.
And I think in total when you look at the kind of pricing we did get in the second quarter it will also tell you we didn't get 100% of the 75%.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then on top of that with the new residential market and construction coming back and likely outgrowing overall volumes and thinking about that over the next couple of years is there a negative mix on price there because that tends to be more boiler-type product? I don't think so.
I mean we've commented that sometimes pricing for those larger customers will be a little bit softer.
But again the operating margins are very consistent across all of these customer segments.
So that's not a concern for us at all Dennis.
I think there's been a market change a little bit from the 80s when it was more of a "blow and go" I think that you're seeing.
Higher quality products will be included in that segment.
Research Division</strong> So the price per gallon in new construction is not that different than what you might see in other segments? Probably less but not that dramatic.
Yes.
Our next question is coming from the line of P.J.
Juvekar with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Yes so the contractor strength that you saw in the early spring has that continued here late in the season? And do you expect the contractor market to outperform DIY in the second half? Yes.
I mean we took you through kind of the litany P.J.
of the specific contractor segments inside that broad category that we monitor and the comment that all -- every one of those segments was up double digits in the quarter.
And again as we commented throughout the year this will be the strength for the company this year.
We continue to have lots of projects on the books and we're expecting to have a good performance from that group in the third and fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And in Global Finishes your margins have jumped up nicely despite some negative FX impact.
Are these margins sustainable given Chris your gloomy outlook that you described? Yes.
We think -- this is Sean by the way P.J.
but we think the margins it's showing a couple of things.
I think in Chris' comments he talked about domestic sales inside that Global Finishes Group were strong.
And we get more flow-through on domestic sales I mean to outside the country.
So I think that shouldn't change.
I think it's consistent with what Chris said.
And also I think the operating margins are starting to be improved as we're starting to see some integration activity start to show some positive results.
Research Division</strong> And finally with raw material sort of taming down what kind of pricing do you expect in the second half? Well I think we've indicated we publicly share with you when we raise prices February's the last time we've taken prices.
We don't comment prospectively on forward price increases.
We made the comment that our price has held firm in the second quarter.
Time will tell.
Our next question is coming from the line of Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So your consolidated sales grew a little bit more than 9% in the quarter and you expect mid-single digits in the third quarter.
Is the difference between the 2 growth rates the Latin American Coatings Group and the Global Finishes Group essentially that is slower growth there? Yes.
And we expect that what we have seen throughout the year and if you look at how the euro and really the Brazilian reais and you look at the Mexican peso versus last year and what we originally thought to convert that foreign currency is going to be the headwind is going yes.
And so when you sit there and take a look at it that's part of the biggest piece of the issue.
The other thing this is in Bob's comments when you take a look at the -- the third and fourth quarter are a little stronger for us.
And this is when we start seeing the strength last year.
So we're going up against a little tougher comp but foreign exchange headwind is definitely the bigger difference between the second and third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And for the 6 months you reported that administrative costs are up about $42 million or $43 million.
For the year are they going to be flat or up $42 million or $43 million? Or do you have some rough estimate? Yes.
I think when you take look at -- that growth really came from incentive comps continuing to do some work on environmental issues and as well as we've done a lot of work on what I'll call IT projects.
And I think those things will continue to go through.
But I think when you take a look at that $40 million increase year-over-year I would guess that we would not run at that rate in the second half and it would probably be half of that in the second half.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay and then lastly Chris was talking about the stability in the TiO2 market.
And I always get muddled over that.
That is are TiO2 prices stabilizing in July versus where they were in April? Or did they stabilize in April where they were in December? What's the stability? Well what we mean by stability this is Bob what we mean by stability is that pricing is no longer -- does not appear to be rising.
We do not believe that the price increase announced by the industry effective in July was very successful.
So it appears that TiO2 pricing has stabilized.
We do not believe that they're tracking down.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly the LIFO accrual change in the quarter how much did that benefit gross margin or operating profits or whatever measure just the effective change in the accrual? Right.
The change in accrual is probably around 4/10.
Research Division</strong> 4/10? Yes.
40 basis points of our margin.
The core margin was approximately 44.3 and then you had some LIFO adjustments from the first quarter that reversed in the second quarter.
Our next question is coming from the line of Chuck Cerankosky with North Coast Research.
This is Jamie Dunford on for Chuck.
What are some of the changes you guys have seen that has given the confidence to increase the guidance for this year? Well I think as we've said all along Jamie that as we get into the year and have a little better visibility towards the end when we're able to give you a better look.
And as we've commented it's been a strong gallon performance for the company.
And you should read into the guidance for the remainder of the year we're confident that we're going to continue to see that kind of gallon growth again driven by North American and residential architectural paint gallons.
Our next question is coming from Duffy Fischer with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the gap between pricing in stores and the big box? And how has that changed over the last one year? Yes Duffy we pay attention to that.
I think you've seen price some price increases across the board both at big box channel as well as the hardware channel specialty store et cetera.
We've long commented about the irrational industry that we operate in as titanium dioxide raw material cost pressures impact all manufacturers and suppliers and then as a result pricing eventually winds its way to the marketplace.
We're comfortable with the gap.
There's a reason that certain consumers choose to shop in a specialty store environment.
And to remind you many contractors buy at a significant discount off of that shelf price so the gap diminishes quite substantially if any gap at all exists when you get to that customer segment.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then just to clarify with your assumptions for pricing your assumptions for cost what should we think about for that incremental volume going forward from volumes so that that incremental dollar sales is from a volume basis? What's the incremental margin that you guys will realize? A lot of times we get -- we really point to if you look back at the incremental margins that we're realizing in 2002 to 2007 time frame we felt that the incremental gallons this time would be stronger than they were in that time frame.
So the numbers that Chris said we're feeling pretty good about.
I think that our -- as long as we continue to get those kinds of gallons I think you're going to see flow-through.
Our next question is coming from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Chris on the inter-quarter trends that you articulated were those trends pretty consistent month-to-month for the Global Finishes and Latin American businesses also? Yes it was a steady quarter across the board.
All 3 months we were looking pretty much the same difference.
We had some day-count changes from -- month-to-month which impacts the retailer like that but for the most part very steady.
Research Division</strong> So you caution that is more a function of what you read about in the news et cetera over what you're necessarily seeing right? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then within Global Finishes given the strength in the margins I'm sorry if I missed this but can kind of parse that to volume by the various constituents in there: auto refinish protective et cetera? Yes.
Ghansham we don't really break out volumes like that.
We give you that information on our storage business directionally but not for the other segments.
I think suffice it to say that the kind of pricing activity that the company has taken have been fairly consistent across these boards.
So we're definitely providing volume gains in each of those areas.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally on working capital.
Obviously a terrific job there and inventories are below year-over-year and then with the surge in sales you've had.
Is this sort of the new run rate in terms of working capital? Or do you think there's more to go here? Yes I think when we take a look at our working capital last year we finished right around just below 11% as a percent of sales.
We think we're in pretty good shape.
One of the things I just want to remind you is last year we did take a little more inventory into the third quarter from the second quarter because possible shortages and a lot of raw material discussions.
If you remember the -- last year consumer group actually we started to see that inventory drop in the third quarter last year and we actually have some positive inventory drop.
That's when you start to see some flow through.
So consumer had good flow through in the third quarter and we said this year was going be more of a normalized nature.
And so when you take a look at it I think that our working capital's in pretty good shape and I think 11% or just short of 11% for the full year I think it's a pretty good number.
Our next question is coming from the line of John Roberts with Buckingham Research.
The drought that we've had across much of the U.S.
not good for the crops but probably pretty good for exterior painting.
Did you see much higher growth in exterior versus interior? No.
I mean this is the time of year that we should be seeing our exterior gallons perform.
They are.
They're in line.
There's nothing unusual there.
Dry weather is good for painting but 100-degree days not so much.
So we lose the mid-part of the day painters are starting a lot earlier.
Guys are waiting at the front door when we get them open at 6 a.m.
in the morning.
Okay.
And then secondly have you seen the lower propylene prices actually flow through in resin and polypropylene containers and so forth? Or is that still just your anticipation of that? I think the propylene-based commodities John in the second quarter were probably down slightly.
I think there may be more benefit to go.
Our next question is coming from Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Chris I just want to get your actual view on the overall markets.
So what's your assumption for how much U.S.
architectural volumes will grow overall this year? And again what percentage would be contractor versus the big box? And then within contractors it seems that you're growing share.
I know some of your competitors like Penmoore [ph] and Access [ph] have well-publicized problems.
Just wondering how that's benefiting you.
Yes.
I think Don we've talked about the industry data points.
And a lot of smart people like you and your colleagues on the phone have talked about the architectural gallon market in United States growing perhaps at a 3% 4% rate which would be more than double its normalized run rate.
So that kind of gives you a sense.
That feels about right.
We've shared with you directionally the kind of gallon performance that we're having on top of that.
So we think we're gaining share.
We have commented that the contractor is rebounding and reverting back to about 60%.
Our expectation of the total purchases of architectural coatings in America -- we're probably a year or 2 away from them getting back to that level.
So they're going a little bit faster and the market's going a little faster and we're just in the sweet spot and catching it.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And on the gross margin the comps get a lot easier in the second half and of course now raws aren't going up as much.
So are you looking now for much bigger improvement in second half gross margins than you were say back at June -- your May 23 meeting? Well we always look at that 41.80% in the third quarter and thought that we were going be able to beat that.
That was for sure.
We expect that the second half margins when you look at versus last second half margins we feel a little more bullish than we did back on the 23rd you're right.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And have you changed any of your production plans accordingly given that the raw is coming down in some cases in the second half did that mean you came into the third quarter with less inventory than you might have otherwise? Yes.
I think when you take a look at that -- the question that was asked there earlier and you see the raw materials had the production down I think we definitely have less inventory than we did a year ago.
Last year we're were in a position we thought that the raws will continue to rise.
And this year we thought it was little more prudent not to have as much inventory.
Our next question is coming from Dmitry Silversteyn with Longbow Research.
Just want to understand a couple of dynamics that you're seeing here.
The expansion in margins on the global side of business you talked about some integration cost sitting there assuming it's from European acquisitions that you got a couple of years ago.
Sort of what's going on in that market? And am I right in assuming that was the major driver behind the margin improvements that you're seeing in global? Or is there some other benefit that's going on there? I think the number one was the domestic sales in the Global Finishes Group.
We do still have quite a bit of sales inside the United States and Canada.
And when you look at the domestic sales that's by far was the #1 reason for the margin improvement.
But on top of that there was some improvement on the European operations.
And you're right it's the acquisitions we did a few years ago.
Would it be fair to say then that the margin impact was driven more by mix as -- after growing higher margin North American business versus perhaps flattish margin or flattish volumes in Europe which is a lower margin business? Yes.
That's fine.
Secondly your administrative costs continue to be up year-over-year and that's sequential.
So I'm assuming that's the sort of the new run rate that we should looking at in terms of operating profitability? Yes.
And as I said I don't think it will be up $40 million like we were in the first half of the year.
But I think when you take a look at that last year our admin was around $243 million give-and-take.
I think if you -- the run rate will be in that $290 million to $310 million.
Got it.
That's helpful.
And then finally just curious about your comments on TiO2 [indiscernible] outlook.
I guess you talked about pricing being flattish on weak demand.
Paint is the #1 source of TiO2 demand.
And paint market at least in North America seems to be doing well.
So is it the weakness in international markets that's leading to declining demand for TiO2? That's correct and primarily Asia Pacific.
Our next question is coming from the line of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research Company.
A couple of things.
The gross margin I understand looking at the first half in total the full out [ph]  of the LIFO benefit.
Should the second half gross margin expansion be materially greater than the first half? We'll wait and see.
I don't want to put some guidance out there that we're going to have to live with Eric.
I mean we're pretty careful.
Usually we like to give you a pretty good guidance for the second quarter but we'll wait to see what happens with the raws in the next couple of months and I think we'll see.
But there's a lot of different moving parts right now with the volatility in the raw materials quite honestly.
I don't want to put an add to it [ph] like you did.
I understand.
Secondly in terms of price the change from 2Q to 1Q I guess I mean if you could just clarify a little further it sounded like price in 1Q contributed maybe as much as 9 or 10 points and 2Q closer to 5.
Is that right? And should the second half be sustained in this 5 or how should we think about that? And if you could give us any more color on what's going on within that? Yes.
I think when you take a look at the way prices moved up last year I think the numbers you have are in the ballpark pretty good.
I think that we'll see what happens with price but we don't see price growing from that second quarter number that's for sure.
And is that just I guess accordingly is that just cycling off or is there -- are you taking a little more aggressive position on price that's accelerating your share progress? It's cycling off.
I think we're going to -- just I like I mentioned it's cycling off of the June 6 price increase from 2011.
We've got a couple of -- I think in October we're going to see another cycling off.
So we don't see the price metrics changing in the architectural paint market.
But it's just that annualization.
I think the comment we made in the opening part of the call Eric about prices holding firm.
That's our expectation.
So it's always as Sean commented we're just coming up against these robust and consistent price increases we had in the past years.
Okay.
And then the last question in terms of volume which sounds like it was a very good number this quarter again.
Is that the rate at which volume should grow? I'm just trying to understand the sales guides for the second half of the year and full year.
Is the second quarter volume growth that you saw is that what you expect to be sustained in the back half? I think when you take a look at it and because of the strength of the volumes we starting to go against harder comps.
I think if we see volume slightly below where we were in the second quarter but not materially lower.
I mean negative volumes first half positive volumes second half last year.
The kind of run rate to run right now feels consistent to us we just have that tougher comparison.
And I just -- last one if I might.
The second quarter sales guidance I think was 10 to 15 and you reported roughly 10 or 9.5.
Was the difference there currency or international growth can you just sort of talk about the severity or the differences between those 2? FX is 100%.
The Brazilian reais in town it was just 2.10.
That and the Mexican peso and the euro all 3 of those I would say -- it's 99% of where the difference between our guidance and the 9.3 that we came in at.
Our next question is coming from Matt McGinley with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I have a follow-up on the LIFO comments that you made.
I know in the 10-K you disclosed that LIFO has an impact of about $0.59 during all 2011.
I think you said it was 40 basis points of help there that you got from that in the second quarter.
So I think you're still a lot less in terms of how you recover that.
Is there a particular quarter within the year we had a bigger impact? Or was that relatively spread out over the entire year? In 2011? Research Division</strong> Correct.
Yes I think the one -- it was really the third quarter.
And last year you saw the third quarter was around 41.8% last year.
It was a little heavier than the other 3.
And that's because the raw materials continue to rise and the basket continued to rise and we were trying to catch up.
And this year it looks we're seeing that the basket forecast that we're giving it continues to go down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So all this equal you'd expect the third could be the quarter of greatest recovery within the year? Oh yes.
I mean I think that the year-over-year comparison of gross margin we're going to see the greatest impact of that in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then on your third quarter sales guidance you said that the waning impacts of pricing will not be the benefit that it was in clearly the past handful of quarters.
You said that FX would likely be worse.
Are you within -- in terms with your guidance are you saying that the units will be positive? Or would you expect that to be down in the third quarter? I think it is to be positive.
Research Division</strong> For the company in total and so not just with the Paint Stores Group? Absolutely.
Our next question is coming from Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> John I think you mentioned you guys had drawn down a little bit on your inventories.
I think maybe you're referring to raw material inventory.
So I'm just curious what your expectation as you go through the second half.
Is there still some room to do that? Or certainly on the TiO2 side we've seen your supplier base has had some challenges here in the last few months.
So have you reached a sort of detente there? Or what's your expectation going into the second half? I think our raw material inventory will be slightly lower 5% lower at the end of the year than we are right now.
I think -- but I do think finished goods will also be down just as they always do in the third and fourth quarter because our production goes down.
Research Division</strong> It's interesting it sounds like there's a bifurcated market.
You mentioned that in the U.S.
architectural paint demand has been very good and you commented that it should continue to do so.
Yet the TiO2 weakness seems to be more Asian-based.
Do you expect that you'll see some changing behavior from your suppliers now that TiO2 market's loosened up? Or is it still going to be the same old fight that you usually confront? You're articulating diverging market trends and  softness globally but the strength in the U.S.
Don't forget that titanium prices have been running on us the past couple of years it's been also a diverging trend because they were referencing tighter demand and we were seeing collapse in the U.S.
architectural market.
So it's not for us to articulate what their behavior will be like going forward.
We can only report on past trends of buying these raw materials.
When global supply slackens it's a period of time when they like to go to get pricing.
And it's what Bob commented on that it's the July price increase that was announced did not go in and we'll see how the second half unfolds.
And just as a reminder Bob the North American market consumes less than 25% of global supply of TiO2.
So we've got 75% more than 75% of the global TiO2 market that's struggling for volume even if North America is relatively strong.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful.
And then lastly if I might can you give me a sense if I read in some trade rag that propylene price contract price changed today how long would it be before it actually shows up in any meaningful way on a cost of good volumes for Sherwin-Williams? About -- typically about 50 to 90 days.
Our next question is coming from Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America.
This is Chris Perrella on for Kevin.
Could you elaborate on the softening that you're seeing down in Latin America whether regionally -- a particular region or end markets down there.
Yes.
I think to put that in perspective we're still seeing volume gains in our Latin American operations.
First and foremost the segment reporting is impacted by the FX that Sean is taking you through now.
So that's a lot of the headwind.
There's a general softening in the Brazilian economy that you read about and we feel that.
Same is true slightly in Mexico.
But beyond that I mean these businesses are performing well holding their own gaining share in some cases and generating volume gains.
And pricing gains as well in the region? Yes.
Again back to the global rational nature of this industry and the important need to get pricing after raws.
And so we have seen pricing throughout the region over the last couple of years including the beginning half of this year consistent with the kind of comments we've been making about North America.
Okay.
And the Geocel acquisition does that account for the growth in the -- or the sales contribution on the consumer segment? Yes it will be reported in the consumer segment.
There was one month of -- yes so it was not the majority of the sales growth by any stretch of imagination.
Our next question is coming from Aram Rubinson with Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> Question about innovation and what it means for price.
It sounded at least from the analyst day that innovation is at its highest level in many years.
And I would think that usually helps to sustain price.
Just wondering why given that circumstance why we'd be getting less than a 75% kind of realization.
And I'm also wondering how that change manifests itself if its pushback from contractors on price if it's promotions for retail or something else? And is there something we can be doing to kind of get back to that realization? Well innovation I think is an important part of it but it speaks to the products that are introduced not the core product line.
So as we commented on our investor day this has been a particularly robust year for us with new products I think somewhere around 30 new products that hit the market.
And to your point our intent is to bring those products at more of the higher end of the performance spectrum.
So they are setting higher selling prices better margins.
But the vast majority of products that we sell as company year-in and year-out despite a strong year like this come from the core products.
The real workhorse products that painters use day in and day out.
And that's where I think Sean made the comment about going out for pricing and not really having the full 75% implemented just yet.
And I think if you take a look at the history back in the 80s when we used to go out once a year that 75% the first time we tried to get a second price increase in the first -- 2 in 1 year we didn't get all 75%.
All of a sudden we got pretty good unfortunately for 2 in a year then we went [indiscernible] to 3.
And I think we had somewhere in the neighborhood of 7 price increases in about 35 months.
So it was so rapid I think that it was hard.
We were halfway through it I think that's really what happened to us.
Not that I think the market has changed.
Research Division</strong> Two quick things.
Can you talk how much FX was in Q3 guidance? And also last time you gave us a gross profit dollar change by segment.
Would you mind doing that for us again please? When I did that last time we got the Q completely written.
We're not in that same spot.
We're going to release the Q on the 25th of July.
So I think we're not going be exact now with you between now and then.
But then I think you get the dollar exchanges right then and there from the Q.
But no I think that the FX if you take a look at how much headwind we had in the second quarter I think you can -- the guidance has more FX headwind than the second quarter.
I'm not -- I really don't want to give you an exact number.
Our next question is coming from the line of Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> On the Latin American group it looks like FX hurt your top line close to $30 million and yet on the operating profit level it was only about $2.6 million hit.
So could you explain what you do to mitigate that falling all the way to the bottom line? Was it improved leverage or a fixed cost leverage from higher volumes? Or just add a little bit more color to what you did to mitigate that headwind.
Yes.
I think one of the things you have to realize is when you do get FX headwinds it's not dollar for dollar going to the bottom line because it also affects your SG&amp;A and it affects other things.
So when you take a look at it I think Chris has hinted that we did have volume gains down there and the world market on the raw materials that grows -- pricing was going on in there.
So I think volume offset it.
I think pricing offset it.
And those are really the 2 things.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On your guidance for the full year it suggests some deceleration in the back half in terms of earnings growth.
Is there anything behind that? Is it conservatism? Is it seasonality? Or is it just growth happened to be so strong? No.
I think the first half I mean when you sit there and say that this first half -- and if you get a chance to read the Q there's a lot of things in there over the last 12 months.
So really when you look at the last 4 quarters combined our net operating cash flow was over 10% the flow-through was very strong when you put these 4 quarters together.
So it's going up against a little tougher comparisons.
And when we look at the second half we're pretty excited about how things are going to come out.
We think that we're going to have some nice flow-through.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just finally it seems in the Paint Stores Group the remodel part of the portfolio is probably driving a little bit more of the volume than the new residential.
I don't know if that's completely accurate so if you could help me with that.
But is this -- as we see home sales improve existing home sales whatever's going on there are we going to -- do you think there'll be a mix shift? Or are we going to see that residential growth -- shouldn't the remodel growth stay where it is? And then on top that have a nice icing on the cake from new residential.
Yes I think that's a good way to think about it Nils.
As a reminder the demand for architectural paint in North America is predominantly for remodel redecorating and maintenance so you can think in terms of 80% plus or minus a few points on that.
So as the new construction comes back it will have a positive impact but a smaller amount.
I think most folks are talking about housing starts somewhere in the 700 000 range.
We believe that the sustainable number in our country's north of 1 million units so we have several years of reasonable marginal growth and improvement in that to get back to a normalized run rate.
On our way there our expectations will be that the ongoing maintenance decorating for the existing infrastructure housing stock will be really driving this number.
And to your point about as housing sales are picking back up as housing volumes are improving those are all really positive market metrics for sustained growth in this business.
Our last question is a follow-up from the line of Dmitry Silversteyn with Longbow Research.
Yes I just have a quick clarification.
You talked about the paint group seeing about mid-single digit of pricing on year-over-year basis.
I'm assuming it's somewhat similar in the consumer group which would imply that volume growth there was pretty close to 0 year-over-year.
Can you talk a little bit about sort of what's driving that if my math is correct? Well as we've stated over and over we don't give that kind of same clarity and break out that we do in our stores business for the other segments.
And I will tell you that our consumer group did have volume growth as well.
Gentlemen there are no further questions.
I'll now turn the floor back over to Bob Wells for closing remarks.
I'd like to thank you all once again for your participation in today's call.
I will be available as usual over the balance of the day and week to address any follow-up questions.
We appreciate you joining us today and thanks for your continued interest in Sherwin-Williams.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and we thank you for your participation.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining the Sherwin-Williams Company's review of the third quarter 2012 financial results and expectations for the full year.
With us on today's call are Chris Connor Chairman and CEO; Sean Hennessy CFO; Al Mistysyn Vice President Corporate Controller; and Bob Wells Senior Vice President Corporate Communications.
This conference call is being webcast simultaneously in a listen-only mode by Vcall via the Internet at www.sherwin.com.
An archived replay of this webcast will be available at www.sherwin.com beginning approximately 2 hours after this conference call concludes and will be available until Thursday November 25 2012 at 5 p.m.
Eastern Time.
This conference call will include certain forward-looking statements as defined under U.S.
federal securities laws with respect to sales earnings and other matters.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A full declaration regarding forward-looking statements is provided in the company's earnings release transmitted earlier this morning.
After the review of third quality results we will open the session to questions.
I will now turn the call over to Bob Wells.
Thanks Jesse.
As usual in order to allow more time for questions we've provided balance sheet items and other selected information on our website at sherwin.com under Investor Relations Third Quarter Press Release.
Summarizing overall company performance for the third quarter 2012 versus third quarter 2011 consolidated net sales increased 4.8% to $2.6 billion due primarily to higher paint sales volumes in our Paint Stores group and selling price increases.
Acquisitions increased consolidated net sales approximately 1% in the quarter and unfavorable currency translation rate changes decreased net sales 2.2%.
Consolidated gross profit dollars increased $112 million to $1.15 billion.
Gross margin increased 240 basis points to 44.2% of sales from 41.8% in the third quarter last year.
The increase in gross margin was primarily due to higher year-over-year selling prices improved fixed cost absorption from increased sales volumes and slight sales mix benefit.
Selling general and administrative expenses for the quarter increased 5.2% to $799.8 million.
As a percent of sales SG&amp;A increased to 30.7% in the third quarter this year from 30.6% last year.
Interest expense was essentially flat at $10.4 million.
Consolidated profit before taxes in the quarter increased $82.7 million or 31.8% to $343 million.
Profit before tax as a percent of sales increased to 13.2% from 10.5% last year.
Our effective tax rate in the third quarter was 31.5% compared to 30.9% in the third quarter of 2011.
For the full year 2012 we expect our effective tax rate to be in the low 30% range.
Consolidated net income increased $55.1 million to $235 million compared to $179.9 million in the third quarter of 2011.
Net income as a percent of sales increased to 9% from 7.2% in the third quarter last year.
Diluted net income per common share for the quarter increased 31% to $2.24 per share from $1.71 per share in 2011.
Unfavorable currency translation decreased diluted net income per common share $0.05 in the quarter.
Acquisitions had no significant impact on earnings per share.
Looking at our results by operating segment.
Sales for our Paint Stores group in the third quarter increased 9.6% to $1.55 billion.
Higher paint sales volumes across all end market segments and selling price increases accounted for most of the increase in sales comparable store sales that is sales by stores open more than 12 calendar months increased 8.9% in the quarter compared to third quarter last year.
Regionally in the third quarter 2012 our southeastern division led the sales performance followed by Southwestern division and Midwestern division -- I'm sorry Eastern division and Midwestern division.
Two Paint Store divisions reported sales increases of above 10% compared to last year.
Segment profit for the group increased $63.7 million or 26.9% to $300.6 million in the quarter as higher sales volume and selling price increases were partially offset by higher year-over-year raw material costs and selling general and administrative expenses.
Operating margin increased to 19.3% from 16.7% in the third quarter last year.
Turning to our Consumer group.
Sales in the third quarter decreased 1% to $348 million due primarily to lower sales volumes to most of the group's retail customers partially offset by acquisitions and higher selling prices.
Third quarter segment profit for the consumer group increased $16 million or 39.1% to $57.1 million due primarily to improved operating efficiencies and higher year-over-year selling prices that were partially offset by higher raw material costs.
Segment profit as a percent of external sales increased to 16.4% from 11.7% in the same period last year.
For our Global Finishes Group sales in U.S.
dollars also decreased 1% to $491.8 million in the quarter due primarily to unfavorable currency translation rate changes and lower paint sales volume partially offset by selling price increases.
In the quarter unfavorable currency translation decreased sales in U.S.
dollars by 4.6%.
Stated in U.S.
dollars third quarter segment profit increased $8.8 million or 32.1% to $36.4 million.
Higher selling prices and good expense control more than offset higher raw material costs and unfavorable currency rate changes.
Currency rate changes decreased segment profit by $5.1 million in the quarter.
As a percent to external net sales segment profit increased to 7.4% from 5.5% in the third quarter last year.
Finally for our Latin American Coatings Group third quarter net sales in U.S.
dollars decreased 4% to $208.7 million due primarily to unfavorable currency translation rate changes partially offset by selling price increases and higher paint sales volumes.
Unfavorable currency decreased net sales by 13.8% in the quarter.
Stated in U.S.
dollars segment profit increased to $21.9 million in the quarter from $15.9 million last year.
Unfavorable currency translation rate changes decreased segment profit $3.7 million in the quarter.
As a percent of net sales segment operating profit was 10.5% in the quarter compared to 7.3% in the third quarter of 2011.
That concludes my review of the results for the third quarter 2012 so I'll turn the call over to Chris Connor who will make some general comments and highlight our expectations for the remainder of the year.
Chris? Thank you Bob.
Good morning everybody and thanks for joining us today.
The third quarter was a solid quarter for Sherwin-Williams in terms of both sales and profit improvement.
Consolidated sales increased almost 5% despite soft market conditions and currency headwinds across most of our nondomestic markets.
We also had to overcome the diminishing effect from last year's price increases and a strong revenue growth comparison from the third quarter of last year.
Despite that in many of the financial metrics Bob just walked you through notably the $2.6 billion in sales for the quarter $235 million in net income and $2.24 earnings per share are high watermarks for any quarter in our company's history.
Year-to-date our flow through on operating income is over 31%.
As encouraging as these results are for us we still see room for improvement.
Three of our 4 operating segments reported soft sales in the quarter and many of end minivan markets we serve for example domestic commercial construction in particular have not yet emerged from recession.
Although we've made progress on the gross profit line our consolidated gross margin remains well below our all-time high of 46% on a full year basis.
If you look at our third quarter results by segments they were pretty much in line with our expectations.
Paint Stores group once again delivered strong year-over-year sales growth at a pace that we believe is comfortably ahead of the industry roughly half of the segment's revenue growth came from volume.
Our investments in new store openings and superior store staffing continues to drive market share growth.
Our Consumer group Global Finishes group and Latin American Coatings Group reported strong profit for the quarter despite weak demand in many regions of the world.
Combined sales of the 3 segments declined slightly while combined profit increased more than 36%.
The silver lining around weakening international paint coatings demand is the effect it has on raw material cost.
Over the past 6 months the price of high grade chloride titanium dioxide had eased somewhat due to declining global demand.
We've also seen a modest downward trend in the price of propylene a key feedstock for monomers latex solvents and containers.
We believe these trends are likely to continue.
Based on these developments we now expect average year-over-year raw material cost inflation for the paint and coatings industry to be in the mid-single-digit range in 2012 down from our previous guidance of mid- to high-single digits.
Although the rate of input cost inflation appears to be moderating the 240-basis-point increase in our third quarter gross margin was helped by better operating efficiencies in our Consumer group.
Comparing our 9-month gross margin of 43.9% to last year's 42.7% perhaps provides a better representation of the progress we've made in offsetting multi-year raw material inflation with price increases and mix improvement.
SG&amp;A spending was up $40 million in the quarter and increased 10 basis points as a percent to sales.
Through the largest contributors to this increase for the new stores opened in the past 12 months higher incentive compensation as a result of strong financial performance and incremental SG&amp;A from acquisitions.
In the third quarter we generated $367 million in net operating cash bringing our 9-month net operating cash to $569 million an increase of $123 million over the same period last year.
Year-to-date cash from operations has increased $182 million to $628 million.
Nine month free cash flow and we measure free cash flow as net operating cash less CapEx and dividends was at $346 million.
We continue to use this cash to invest in the company and expand our control distribution platform complete suitable acquisitions increased our dividend and purchase shares of our stock for treasury.
In the first 9 months our Paint Stores group added 28 net new stores 8 of which were opened in the third quarter.
This brings our total store count in the U.S.
and Canada and the Caribbean to 3 478 locations compared to 3 421 a year ago.
Our plan calls for Paint Stores group to add approximately 60 to 65 net new store locations during this year.
In the third quarter we bought back 500 000 shares of our common stock on the open market bringing our year-to-date total to 3.8 million shares at an average purchase price of $113.96.
On September 30 we had remaining authorization to acquire 17.25 million shares.
Last week our Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.39 per share up from $0.365 last year.
It is increasingly obvious that the global economy is slowing and that risk to the U.S.
economy has increased accordingly.
However to date paint and coatings demand in our domestic businesses has been resilient.
We remain optimistic that U.S.
architectural paint market volumes primarily in the residential segments will remain positive in the fourth quarter of 2012 and well beyond and domestic demand for most industrial coatings will continue to expand.
The greatest challenges going forward are likely be worsening market conditions in Latin America and Europe and the increasingly difficult comparisons.
Our outlook for fourth quarter 2012 is for consolidated net sales to increase in the mid-single digits compared to last year's fourth quarter.
With sales at this level we expect diluted net income per common share for the quarter to be in the range of $0.98 to $1.18 per share compared to $0.14 per share in 2011 which included a $0.71 per share charge last year for our IRS settlement.
For the full year 2012 we expect consolidated net sales to increase by a high single-digit percentage over last year.
With annual sales at that level we've raised our expectation for diluted net income per common share for 2012 to be in the range of $6.35 to $6.55 per share compared to $4.14 earned in 2011.
Again thanks to all of you for joining us this morning and now we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'm struck by your overall incremental gross margin in the quarter which I think was about 95% and it looks like your cost of goods sold didn't really change year-over-year.
So I imagine that some of the raw material benefits that the industry is seeing are now making a larger impression on your income statement even in this quarter.
Is that right? I would not say it Jeff.
And I would tell you that I'd like to paraphrase it this way and hopefully it'll explain it.
When raw materials are rising your LIFO expense is catching up.
It's always -- is it's like trying to catch up and when you start to hit the peak our LIFO index will still be greater than 1 this year but that's why we continually talk about the year-to-date because of all the different things that are going through that cost of goods sold and what you're seeing is last year the raws were rising dramatically in the third and fourth quarter of last year so our LIFO is catching up and that's why we continue to do some of those things.
So when I look at it I think as Chris said the 43.9% versus the 42.7% when you start doing those analysis instead of -- when we start looking at cap variances and LIFO and all the other things that are going on that are affected by those different things but I think that our year-to-date is probably a better indication.
I think the fourth quarter our gross margin will be higher than last year.
I think our gross margin for the year will be at or slightly higher than we are year-to-date.
So I think you're going to see progressively our gross margin continues to get stronger and I think that's when you're going to -- I think you're going to see that more in the future but I think that you can't look at the gross margin in third quarter versus last year that percentage and say okay that's what we're going to see in the future.
Last year gross margin in the fourth quarter is 42.8%.
That's why I really -- it's I got a lot of confidence we're going to repeat last year's but that's why I think year-to-date we're actually going to see a 43.9% or slightly above that.
Our next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to the store count of 28 versus your guidance 60 to 65.
Is this sort of a timing issue? Or is there a larger store network that's available that's perhaps giving you some pause as you build out your stores? Ghasham this has been the historic pattern at Sherwin despite -- lots of attempts to the contrary.
We like to lay these stores in on a little bit more of an orderly path but for a variety of reasons many of them outside of our control for example real estate developers communities getting permits passed et cetera.
This always tends to be a heavy fourth quarter waiting.
So all the work that we've been doing on these single store real estate negotiations getting ready to open these stores they all just tend to kind of unwind here in the fourth quarter.
So we'll hit that number through individual stores.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a sort of a higher-level question right so Europe isn't huge for you and a lot of companies in different industries are sort of reassessing whether they want to be in Europe longer-term.
Just given what's happened there does that change any of your strategy or strategic ambitions for that market over time for Sherwin? Yes we've been pretty clear about our interest in Europe.
We do not have an architectural paint -- desire to be there for a variety of reasons.
We we're in the country to participate in the Global Industrial Coatings businesses primarily industrial wood coatings.
And at this point in time there's not been any indication that we'd be strengthening our position over there.
I'm happy to have business that we have and working hard to get them integrated and improve their operating margins.
Our next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the volume breakdown between the same-store channel and the consumer channel? It seems like there was a big dichotomy between the 2 channels with contractor market really turning around this year.
And then just a follow-up on that is do you expect the contractor market to grow at the same level next year as this year? Yes.
So your first part of your question P.J.
is absolutely correct.
The stores had a solid quarter again almost 10% sales gain and we commented that approximately half of it was from volume.
So again outperforming we think the market conditions.
And our consumer group had a soft quarter in sales and there were some pricing there as well so volumes were even a little softer than that.
So there is that dichotomy happening.
We've been commenting about the rebounding residential markets in the United States.
We're seeing really good numbers coming out now on new construction and then the result of that I think the contractor is strengthening as a larger portion of the U.S.
architectural purchasing.
And as far as the question of next year we're we always give guidance on our January phone call when we really don't have any indication on the gallonage forecast for 2013.
We'll give you guidance in January when we report the full year numbers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just quickly on the Paint Stores group.
Chris I think you had mentioned earlier at your Analyst Day that you're keeping your stores open longer anticipating higher demand? Can you just give us an update on that? And also on your Platinum paint which is I think your paint plus primer for the contractor market? Yes.
So from a store hour perspective P.J.
let's say we're always kind of looking at that and tweaking that and we've marginally increased our hours across some markets a little bit later on weeknights a little bit longer on Saturday and Sunday but I don't think that's a significant impact to the company's overall performance.
Our recent innovative product launch is in stores primarily been focused around Emerald which is this high-end top-of-the-line zero VOC performance product which is really doing quite well for the company.
As a reminder when we talk about new product sales we're identifying those products that have been introduced and have 3 years of run life still and as group they account for less than 10% of our revenue.
So while we're excited about this new product launch and what it's doing in the market for our overall mix it's not a dramatic mover for the company.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Koort of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Brian Maguire on for Bob today.
I was wondering if you could comment on your level of inventory on titanium dioxide and maybe compare it to say normal levels or where you were a year ago.
And then just kind of related to that as you mentioned over the last 6 months high-grade chloride TiO2 prices have come down or at least moderated a bit and there's definitely a perception that they're going to continue to decline at the year end into the first quarter.
So would you look to run down your inventories even further in anticipation of lower prices in the coming year? No.
We look at our inventory of titanium dioxide as a raw material.
It's very comparable what it has been for the last few quarters including last year.
We didn't dramatically change and I don't see us changing that anytime soon.
We turn our raw materials so quickly especially on some of these raws and as we go into the end of the season the production plan in the fourth quarter will be normal as and we're going to make less payments fourth quarter than we have in any other quarter.
And then in the first quarter we'll start to ramp back up.
But no plans on changing that normalized view of what we're going to do with our raw materials.
And Brian with respect to our expectations for TiO2 pricing from here I'm sure it didn't go unnoticed that earlier this week one of the major TiO2 producers reported earnings and reported volumes in the third quarter down 18%.
I suspect that probably the other global chloride producers experienced similar volume declines in the quarter and that would tend to put pricing pressure on TiO2 downward pricing pressure on TiO2.
To your point we think that that spot market pricing in TiO2 is probably down in the 10% range year to date and perhaps with quite a bit further to go.
Research Division</strong> So I guess I might just have been confused why wouldn't try and run down the inventories more or is it just the case that you are already kind of at safety stock levels in and now or do you expect prices to decline in response to the volume drop.
Yes.
We don't really think about it running raw inventory down based on cost I mean we run  an efficient lean supply chain here.
We're turning these raw materials multiple multiple times a year.
We store this stuff in slurry tanks and it really we have the raw material we need to make the paint we're going to make in the next week or 2.
So not a lot of room to run this stuff down.
We'll turn titanium back set between 30 and 34 times a year so you're talking a 1.5 weeks worth of supply.
That's 10 days.
We sit there and say moving at the 5 days what is the net effect? It's not that great.
Our next question comes from the line of Trey Grooms of Stephens Incorporated.
Research Division</strong> Kind of following on that TiO2 being here just some of your competitors have been out mentioning that they'll be able to substitute a significant amount of their chloride TiO2 consumption with the lower-priced sulfate TiO2 and I know in the past you guys have said that you have a limited ability to kind of do that.
Can you kind of give us an update kind of where you stand on that today? And then also kind of what do you think of the impact could be on TiO2 pricing as these coatings guys tend to do more substitution there? Yes Trey I think we've heard a number of our competitors comment about the ability to eliminate 5% 10% perhaps of their annual chloride titanium demand based on replacement technologies innovative chemistry a whole host of practices.
I think what we've commented is that we don't see that number being unreachable for us either.
We just would be a later adopter.
Professional painting contractors demand for the consistency in our product means that some of these technologies will more likely wind their way into our next round of new products we launch as opposed to going into our core product line and replacing chloride with some of these other technologies.
Outside the United States I think we can do that a little bit easier.
We don't use tint base and in-store tinting as much.
In Latin America for example we do a lot more factory color blending.
In that environment you can switch from the chloride grade directly to the sulfide grade.
So some of that activity's taking place as we speak.
But I think this is going to be in the margin in terms of replacing it.
Though the bigger impact here is that Bob has mentioned in the past has been this softening in the global demand and as a result of that pricings will come down.
Research Division</strong> Okay thanks.
And then a question on the Emerald line that you touched on earlier.
Can you give us a little bit more color on kind of what the reception has been? It sounds like it's been pretty good but is that more kind of DIY-focused or more contractor-focused and then also kind of how the pricing differs there? Yes.
It's rarely that we bring a product line out that doesn't have to serve all customer segments and there's a huge component of this product that we expect the residential repaint contractor to find attractive and in fact that's exactly what's happening Trey.
We've seen really good demand across that line.
The things that we use to kind of measure the strength of the new product introductions for the company.
One would be are we kind of hitting the targets of gallons that we've set forth at its launch and we're well ahead of that pace and secondarily and perhaps even more important you hear us talk often about the mix shift inside our company.
And as we bring these products out on the very high-end of our product assortment often times we'll see customers move up inside the other product lines but had been defined as product is now one level below and we're seeing nice volume gains in that product which is a product we call Duration as well.
So it's having all the kind of impact we'd like to see as a result of this kind of product launch and quite pleased with it at this point in time.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Chris if you had to hazard a guess where would you see U.S.
architectural coatings industry gallonage finishing up for 2012? Trying to get a sense of how far below normalized levels we are still at this point? I would think the growth number Kevin is probably going to be around 2% to 3% and I think we're commenting around 2% to 4% halfway through the year.
It appears to be moderating a little bit.
So on a basis of 615 million gallons for the industry last year approximately 2% to 3% pop from there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so if I peg normalized at maybe 730 to 750 or so it sounds like you're maybe 15% below is that fair? That's fair.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up Chris.
Be curious to hear your updated views of what you're seeing in the private market since the Geocel deal which wasn't all that large you've been pretty quiet or disciplined shall I say.
With the downturn overseas do you anticipate any opportunities to kind of reinvigorate acquisitions in overseas markets? Yes Kevin I think we've stayed very disciplined around the strategic targets that we've shared with the Street repeatedly namely architectural businesses in the Americas that can kind of strengthen our control distribution play or have really strong compelling brands throughout the Latin American markets and then smaller bolt-on acquisitions to support our Industrials Coatings businesses wherever they may be around the world.
The fact that we've had a little bit of a softer period here on M&amp;A has not -- anything to do with our interest or the number of doors we're knocking on and the folks we're courting.
And when we find things that fit those models and return the kind of disciplined returns we expect we'd be one to pull the trigger.
We have commented that traditionally a lot of these architectural businesses are owned by private families and they tend to not want to sell into the down market but as things start to improve they've become a little bit more interested in valuing their assets and so we would expect that maybe over the next couple of years we'll start to see a little bit more activity there but nothing to report on today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final question if I may I'll turn it over is on tax rate.
Sean it's just been creeping up ever so slightly the last 3 quarters.
Is that a function of geographic mix? And do you have any preliminary thoughts on where you might be tracking for 4Q in 2013? Yes.
I think you're 100% right.
It is geographic as -- our Stores group Consumer group has done very very well.
I think that we still think that we're going to be able to maintain the tax rate in the low 30s.
But I would say we're going to be slightly below or slightly above next year where we finish the year this year.
Our next question comes from the line of John McNulty of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is Abhi Rajendran calling in for John.
A quick question on raws and pricing I guess with the softness in both TiO2 and then even some of the rest of your baskets.
Are there any areas where you're having to give back on pricing? Maybe you could just touch a little bit on that? Yes.
I think Abhi we've commented that in past cycles like this typically the industry's done a nice job of hanging on to pricing.
It's sticky on the way up -- I'm sorry it's tough on the way up and rather sticky at the top.
We did comment that we're still quite a ways below our all-time high in gross margins.
So I think there's still work to do that here.
We would expect to see in the industry on large commercial projects heading into next year if in fact these raws continue to roll over that we will see some lower prices quoted on these significant volume opportunities.
But again that's somewhat consistent with past practices as well.
So we'll see how this one plays out but that would be our expectation.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And just a quick follow up could you talk a bit about any potential availability issues or upcoming increases is cost for your acrylics purchases? We don't anticipate any tightening in those markets.
Propylene has been trending down along with TiO2.
We're paying a lower price for propylene per pound today than we would at the beginning of the year.
And that to us kind of signals ample supply in the market.
So we don't see any problems with acrylic pricing or any of the petrochemical-based materials we buy being tighter going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then last quick one if I may.
On M&amp;A I guess do you have any preferences as to smaller bolt-on acquisitions? Or are you looking at more medium-sized opportunities as well? Maybe you could just touch a little bit on that.
We like the ones that return the best profit for the shareholders regardless of size.
Our next question comes from the line of Duffy Fischer of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I want to go back to the question on incremental and I was looking at incremental EBIT margins throughout the year.
It's been very healthy kind of running anywhere between 23% and 47% this quarter.
Could you split out in those incremental margins how much is kind of been the volume leverage and how much has been catch up on raw material price increases from a year ago? I think when you take a look at our gross margin year-to-date 120 basis points and you look at the volumes that the stores group has created year-to-date and consumers' year-to-date results I think that both of those well over 75% I don't have an exact numbers volume.
I think that we do we give a lot more leverage on volumes than we do price and because a lot of times the price is really motivated by higher raw materials.
So to answer your questions it's the majority of volume.
Research Division</strong> Terrific.
And then if you take a quick look forward to '13 what do you see that this year might've been one-off? So we had the warmer Q1 so when we think about year-over-year comps going into next year what things could we be looking for that might not repeat either good or bad? Yes.
I think when you take a look at the first quarter I think you said it correctly.
I think as -- we're not prepared to talk about next year but we think that the first quarter when you look at the sales increase and the gallons increase and the weather that we experienced some of it had to deal with weather.
And I think over the full year I think that might be timing but I do think that we still feel that if the market in the total year goes up we're going to gain market share.
And so we think that's really our long-term thought.
So we look at it.
Besides that I don't think -- I can't think of anything that was -- I think this has been one of the more normal years expect for the first quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Ivy Zelman of Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> Chris you mentioned that the domestic resiliency that you're experiencing should mitigate the slowing globally? And we certainly saw strength in the Paint Stores and obviously coming from the underlying strength of the new construction market that you spoke to.
But can you dig in a little bit more for us understanding the end markets with respect to what's happening mass merchants versus a retail or a consumer-oriented customers as well as sort of the non-res commercial markets.
We know public spending is obviously it's got a major headwinds versus private spending.
What you could drill in at any more detail and whether you're optimistic that you're seeing anything that would suggest things are going to lag like they normally do the residential improvement and new construction.
Yes.
So there's a lot to chew on there Ivy.
But let's start with kind of the mass merchants' performance.
We reported that our consumer group had a soft quarter.
And when we look inside our own stores at our own DIY business it was one of the poor performing of the segments inside that store's business so I think there may be some softening there a little bit.
Hard to tell if it's just a blip for the quarter or a longer trend.
What impact the election I mean the uncertainties having in that area.
I think it's a little early to make that call.
Some of the more dependable segments that we can look at and think through and plan out on both residential whether that's new residential or residential repaint continue to be the real strength for the company.
These are our segments that are performing high single-digits low double-digits in terms of year-over-year performance in the quarter and then as we've commented briefly in the opening statement relative to the commercial market still it's lagging and we would expect that to be that way it tends to follow housing so if housing comes back we would expect new commercial construction to rebound and that would be a little bit of a tailwind for the company.
We're encouraged by the housing start permit numbers that we saw out this week and I mean to Sean's point we look at the next year I think we're feeling pretty good that this residential market in the United States has still got a lot of runway.
Research Division</strong> If you broke out and looked at the business excluding public spending for non-res projects would it look any different? Or is it also soft within that spending market if you take it in sort of an aggregate look? Right.
We -- when we break it down by ZIP code and so forth it's the softness is -- public in public Ivy.
Our next question comes from the line of Aram Rubinson of Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> Hoping you can just shed some light on a couple of things.
One you mentioned the efficiencies inside the Consumer group.
Can you give us a little bit more detail about what it is that you're doing to  improve those efficiencies? And then second I know your SG&amp;A growth as a percent of sales growth looked a little high in this quarter.
I think you generally target that around 40% or 50%.
And then the last thing is if you can give us the gross margins by category at least those gross profit cells that are so helpful every other quarter and I'd appreciate that.
Sure okay.
The couple of things on the consumer group I think just by on putting gallons through those plans I think that you gain efficiencies.
We have many projects that are ongoing whether they're raw material delivery or fill lines and so forth and you're -- really a lot of singles and doubles there that continue to do very well for us.
As we continue to get other plants underneath that management team Geocel and so forth you're going to see improvements there.
But #1 is really just getting those gallons through and the efficiencies that those gallons will create.
The second question I think hopefully I remember all 3.
But your SG&amp;A you talk about the SG&amp;A and I think that the SG&amp;A a lot of the SG&amp;A growth we had was in the United States.
And where -- as we continue to develop new stores as we continue to put new stores in putting people in the stores hours in the stores as well as we've continued to spend on the -- in the admin segment.
As for IT projects that eventually down the road will create higher cash flow for us in nondomestic markets.
So when the FX effect had so much effect on the sales in a couple of our segments in the U.S.
the SG&amp;A will go up.
And I think when you look at us compared to sales but I think if you look at it year-to-date and notice the 30.7% in the quarter versus 30.6% we're up 10 basis points.
But year-to-date on SG&amp;A we're down 60 basis points and I think when you start to look at it on a year-to-date basis those targets that we usually hit are we're a lot closer to that.
So I think that all the operating margins by operating segment our operating margins are fine but things are going pretty well.
On the -- on the Paint Stores group sales incremental margin dollars were $93.7 million.
Consumer group was $20.7 million.
Global Finishing group was a positive $3.9 million and Latin American group was actually negative $5.7 million.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Melich of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> This is Matt McGinley on for Greg.
If we go back to the Consumer group for a minute.
I'm still not sure I completely understand what happened with the units here.
Did you see a draw down on the sundry product that you sell as well as the coatings? And in terms of if you have access to point-of-sale data are you seeing a self -- issues of sell-through versus inventory depletion and have the channel partners that you sell into there have they perhaps attempted to reduce their inventories to try and push back on price? Or are you starting to have those conversations with those retailers? Matt on the mix between paint and various sundries I would say is it's very consistent across the board of all the baskets and material we sell that it was just a soft quarter.
Then I think that's more indicative of the kind of foot traffic and a little slower out-the-door performance.
As usual this time of year we do see some inventory focus from some of these partners where they're trying to squeeze inventory a little bit and that happens frequently and so I don't think that we can put it entirely at that.
For the 9 months numbers for all these categories there all positive and they're all doing well and so we'll just have to see what their -- this is a falling off or just a little bit of a quarter blip here.
In terms of pricing we're always have those conversations with our partners and they're -- pay close attention to the feed-stocks of these businesses and so I would expect that that's something we'll be dealing with going forward.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my second question is back on the SG&amp;A.
Given you had pretty good sales growth and I understand that you had your -- you're doing investments there's new stores you're putting out you've done some acquisitions and I assume that the higher incentive expense wouldn't stay that high forever.
But at what point would you expect to leverage SG&amp;A at a higher level? Is it -- should I think about it terms of the unit growth? Should I think about it in terms of a sales level that you would achieve? Or I guess when would you have better SG&amp;A leverage given the pretty high rate of sales you experienced this year? Yes.
And I think when you take a look at it we've -- it's also where the sales growth has come in the stores group.
I think they'll continue to invest I think again you've mentioned the comp.
I think that the comp -- but I think we've set the company up that we're going to have a couple of years of nice SG&amp;A growth.
I think or I mean not growth but improvement as a percent of sales.
We hit our highest 35.7% last year around 33.1%.
I think -- as -- or 33.8%.
I think you're going to see some of that improvement over time.
I think for the next period of time over the next couple of years you're going to see that SG&amp;A  improve.
Research Division</strong> What do you think that that would get to as a percentage of sales over time? What we've commented is that we used to just talk about a 33% 33.5% we think that and then we start seeing the 10 20 basis points improvement.
With the change we think that we're probably at 33% and then you're going to start seeing that 10 or 20 basis points improvement.
And that's an annual number.
I know we're below that through the first 3 quarters.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Bosshard of Cleveland Research Company.
Two things.
First of all you talked about gaining share a good amount in the Architectural Paint business I think that's sort of what you're talking about.
Can you talk about what's driving that? And then also related to that you've taken them if there's a little bit cautious and more cautious to you on growth.
Can you just again define what you're seeing different in terms of growth? Yes Eric I think from a share perspective there's a couple of things that we can look at.
Industry gallon data which used to be reported by the federal government is not anymore we're cobbling together these points from raw material suppliers and other industry sources.
Our sense is that the market's grown probably on a volume basis around 2% to 3% and so we're able to look at the kind of gallons we're putting through our footprint here and feel comfortable that that's outperforming the market.
When we look inside the performance in the individual segments these professional painting contractor segments are outperforming and just as we saw those get harder hit in the industry downturn they're the ones that are rebounding a little quicker as we're going forward.
So our expectation would be that we continue to see that kind of share shift towards the painter and we continue to benefit from them.
On the second one Eric when you asked about our outlook.
One of the things that we've commented on the last few calls is that the gallons may continue to be strong but the selling price is going to -- it's not going to be as strong.
Think about couple of -- and I'll tell you right now when you look at the third quarter to fourth quarter you heard Chris comment on the Stores group half of that growth was volume half of it was approximately price.
We think that the price between third and fourth quarter of 2012 we're going to have half of what we realized in the third quarter in the fourth quarter.
So and we also think that the headwinds on the nondomestic will not be as strong and I think that all comes back to that mid-single digits.
So I think that it's not so much that we feel we're not that worried about our get a little worried about volume.
I think it's we're seeing less and less price in that Paint Stores group.
Great and then secondly you talked about gross margin relative to the peak at 46%.
I'm just curious what you think the path from here to there is what drives that how long that path might be.
Yes.
The path will be along the lines of the pricing finishing off and as you know the last price increase we've announced through our Stores business was in February so that ones just about behind us.
You're going to see the efficiency through the whole supply chain adding some lift to that as volume continues to go through that fixed asset base in our Consumer group and then obviously as the raws tip over and we can hang onto pricing per the earlier question.
That'll help us get there.
Whether that happens in the span of a year or 2 or 3 we're not making any comments on that.
And we also need some help from non-stores and nonconsumer segments.
I think when you look at the lower operating margins I think that some of the things we've done to improve especially in the Global Finishes Group again we feel pretty good about the ongoing integration and we think that'll help us with our gross margin as well as operating margin in the future and that'll help us get back on the peak.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Nocella of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just in Latin America you had very strong margins in the third quarter both sequentially and year-over-year.
Maybe you can just help us understand how you will achieve those margins? And maybe give us your early read on demand in Latin America as we enter their seasonally stronger period now? I would tell you right now we hit positive volumes in Latin America in the third quarter and you're right the fourth quarter is stronger for us than the fourth quarter (sic) just having more of that will help us improve our margin in the fourth quarter versus third quarter.
And I think it's going to be volume in there and also just -- we're continuing to work on selling prices in the Latin America group.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you just comment on your outlook for new store growth for next year? We've been saying that we'd expect to continue to increase that and ramp up.
We identify kind of that 50 store pace or 1 store a week is kind of idle speed and as markets improve that we would be ramping that back up.
We haven't given guidance on that yet but we have said that over a longer decade period on a more normalized run rate kind of 70 to 80 stores is the right average to be at.
So we'll be north of the 60 to 65 number that we're going to do this year and next year and we'll you some more clarity on that on the first quarter call.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Dan of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify do you guys have any LIFO liquidation benefit in the quarter? I would say no.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it seemed like you slowed down the pace of your share repurchases and brought down the leverage on the balance sheet.
Can you give us some perspective on why that might have slowed and how we should think about the share count going forward? Yes.
I think when we look at a stock buybacks we're always talking about an annualized number.
So far this year we've brought back 3.8 million shares spent $433 million that's about $100 million more than last year.
Our -- we feel pretty good about where we are I think that we probably bought it.
We're watching a lot of different things right now.
We're -- we like where our balance sheet is.
Our balance sheet's in a pretty good spot if some of these assets would become available here in the fourth quarter or early first quarter so we're watching that.
And that's what we've always said.
We don't see over time that our debt is going to go down.
Our EBITDA's been strong.
So we're still going to target that 1:1 when it comes to EBITDA.
So over time we'll spend that money either on acquisitions or stock buybacks.
So we've looked at it.
We still feel pretty good about where we are buying 3.8 year-to-date and that's what we do.
We looked a lot at it on an annual not a quarter-by-quarter number.
Our next question comes from the line of Ivan Marcuse of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just have a couple of quick questions.
First for the quarter what was the -- your material cost up year-over-year? We will -- maybe you talk about the full basket but for us we never comment on ours and usually we don't even comment on a quarter-to-quarter but usually on a year-to-date.
And I think what we've said is that our raw material baskets beginning in the year we were looking at high single digit low teens and now we're saying that it's going to be in that low single digits.
So you can probably tell that most of the increase was in the first half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then in the Paint Stores I think you give the gross profit dollar increase what was the SG&amp;A dollars? That I will tell you Ill have to look up the Q.
I'll grab it out of the Q and then -- it's 27.4.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then the last question is when you look forward you've had great leverage that youve shown so it's like I guess you're going to be in the high single-digit sales and then somewhere around 30% type of earnings growth.
Would you expect the same -- is -- would that ratio change going forward over the next couple of years? Or is there any reason it would or wouldn't? Yes I think as Sean commented on one of the earlier answers it really is about volumes so the extent that that volume number keeps going at that pace that's the kind of leverage that we can get through the system.
Our next question comes from the line of Chuck Cerankosky of North Coast Research.
I want to get back to the administrative costs and the SG&amp;A costs.
Sean if I go through the segments and back out a couple of adjustments you guys show those administrative costs.
How much of that is including IT projects and acquisition-related SG&amp;A that's allocated to the quarters or exclusive was allocated to the quarters and how much is -- has to be explained by other things?.
No I would say the majority of it is as we mentioned before and actually in the admin segments and you look at the admin segments through 9 months is $54 million higher than last year.
You take out some of the environmental hits and disposition of assets you're down to about the high 40s just about half of that is in compensation.
And probably another 30% 40% of that is IT projects and investments and so forth and especially on acquisitions that eventually we think they create cash flows from our nondomestic operations.
Now with the volume growth in the stores business how is the SG&amp;A up? Because I would think that would be good opportunity to leverage occupancy and in store labor but are there other things to consider? Yes.
We talked about the incentive compensation Chuck.
We were riding this market down were paying a lot of bonuses.
And we've told you we've got practically that entire Stores organization on variable comp plans.
So they're having a good year.
So their incentive comp hits below the segments as well as within some of the segments.
That's true.
Some of the variable compensation and RSOs and other things and annual bonuses are held at the administrative segment.
But I wanted to correct something.
When we did say that our SG&amp;A in the store was up $27 million I don't want to give you the idea that our SG&amp;A there didn't -- did go higher in terms of sales but it didn't dramatically go down but you sit then take look at it the operating margin is up and it's been helped by margin as well as SG&amp;A.
I think when we were talking about the SG&amp;A in total because of those dollars and then the other sales numbers were negatively affected by FX those numbers then become -- it's more dramatic higher global sales not just store sales.
Okay.
And then on LIFO can you give us what the LIFO charge was year-over-year the comparable numbers? Yes.
I think LIFO -- I'll tell you I'm going to get back to you on that one.
Our next question comes from the line of Don Carson of Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
One just wondering why you're a little more cautious on overall growth I think you said you thought total U.S.
gallonage now is up 2% to 3%.
You were thinking maybe 3% to 4% earlier in the year.
And then on stores I mean you talk about how Paint Stores sales group is contractors gaining share from the big box.
But are you gaining share from some of your competitors stores? I noticed that Akzo had their U.S.
stores volumes continue to be down year-over-year.
Ben Moore's having issues so I'm just wondering how much you're benefiting there and does that create an opportunity to be more aggressive on store openings as competitors pull back a bit? Yes Don regarding the U.S.
growth of architectural market.
I think we've been looking at some of the -- our competitors releases here and commenting about some softness in the U.S.
architectural market.
We don't really have a good data other than when it comes lagging to us a little bit.
So I wouldn't read too much into our earlier estimates was 2% to 4% now we're 2% to 3%.
It could be very much in line with what we've been saying.
As Sean commented on one of the earlier questions the volume numbers through our store business has been fine we've just been seeing the impact of price roll back a little bit.
So we're not feeling very cautious here in our guidance.
We're feeling that we're still seeing the strong U.S.
residential architectural market and we're feeling good about the position the company is in.
And capitalize on that increasing store counts next year over this year so all those things are making us feel like we've got a long way to go here to capitalize on this rebounding residential market.
In terms of gaining share within the channel against some of the other small independent paint store chain operators and/or regional or national operators as you mentioned Akzo.
Yes I think we would feel comfortable that we're doing that as well.
We know that just by store count for one way to get at it we've put these or plan to have these 60 to 65 stores in this year.
That will be a significant multiple of the rest of the competitors combined and in fact on those independents we've seen quite a number of those stores.
We think perhaps as many as 1 000 of them have gone out over the last 3 to 4 years during this downturn.
So clearly gaining share inside the paint store channel as well.
Don one more kind of color point on the residential repaint market.
Chris mentioned in his opening comments that DIY was one of the market segments that was probably softer than most.
Don't read that as a decline in demand in -- for residential repaint because residential repaint contractor volume is actually pretty strong.
What we may be saying is kind of this discretionary shift back towards the contractor and away from DIY.
Our next question comes from the line Dmitry Silversteyn of Longbow Research.
I just wanted to follow-up on a couple of questions or the couple of comments you made about the raw material pricing.
You said that propylene pricing is coming down and you implied you're buying propylene.
Are you in fact buying propylene? Are you buying propylene derivatives? It's the latter.
We are actively buying propylene-based commodities.
Right okay.
Is your -- is the products that you're purchasing whether it's resins or packaging or solvents have you seen pricing there decline? We have.
It typically declines on a 90 to 120 day lag.
So we're just starting to feel the impact of the decline in propylene.
And as you know the decline in propylene has been kind of a long slow decline as opposed to a sharp drop.
Okay.
So the important point though is that you are seeing the downstream products made from propylene starting to decline for you in price? Yes some of them.
Excellent.
Then the second question on the Global sales I -- or the Global Group sales.
I'm sort of finding that the comments in the press release a little bit confusing.
You talked about 9 month or through the 9 month year-over-year having about a 2.4% contribution I think you said from acquisitions which implies that the acquisitions were negative in the third quarter.
That doesn't make sense.
Can you take me through the sales components in the Global group? I'll tell you what.
How about if we go to the next question we'll come back -- let me give me a second to pull that out okay Dmitry? That's fine.
And then my last question again has to do with the Consumer group and the -- sort of the declining volumes have [indiscernible] margin based on more gallons processed.
I think that that refers to the gallonage growth that you're seeing in the -- in your store group which flows through the consumer group margin.
Is that the right way to put it? Yes.
That's exactly right.
The consumer group is the North American supply chain provider for the company.
So every gallon manufactured distributed through the chain supporting their consumer's external brands as well as other stores go through that P&amp;L so you're getting the lift as volume goes through that control asset base we transfer that on a fully loaded price to our stores.
But as volume comes and efficiencies are enhanced consumer can get the leverage on that operating margin and that's how they get to the numbers you saw today.
And Dmitry if I go back to that answer for the acquisitions you're right.
The acquisitions on a 9 month is 2.4% and it was 0 for the third quarter.
That's because we've annualized it.
Okay.
So my calculation is correct.
It just sounded...
Yes.
We no longer put the quarter in there because we've annualized it.
I understand what the confusion there was but no it wasn't flat or down.
Our next question comes from Nils Wallin from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> The NAHPs remodeled index came out and it's at above -- its at 50 and it's probably at one of the highest levels since '05 and even in the peak.
But most of it seems to come from the owner occupied side as it goes to rental properties or in major alterations.
So I'm wondering if the rental part of that index or the major alterations if those move up towards 50 is that going to have a meaningful impact on your results? Yes it will.
And multifamily's an important segment for us and unlike the owner occupied residential which can be a DIY project or a painting contractor project typically in multifamily you're seeing a paying contractor being employed to do that so as that segment strengthens that's good for our industry.
Research Division</strong> So then would you say that most of your contractor business is then still focused on the single-family as opposed to the multifamily? Or is there just -- I mean is there just a different mix there? Well the weight in the country would indicate that we have probably 60% to 65% of American citizens are in an owned-occupied thing 35% to 40% would be in rental property.
So to the extent that of contractors are doing a lot of work in the residential repaints for an owner-occupant that still the larger segment for us but we still have a sizable business in this multifamily.
As that improves as occupancy rates improve as turnover improves because that's when you get the painting opportunity those will all be drivers for volume through our stores group.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one final question.
The kind of softness in Global Finishes.
I know that you've obviously you highlighted regions outside of North America were you don't have as big a presence as some of your competitors but I was wondering if you would be able to drill down to say whether it was on the Protective and Marine side or auto with finishes if there's any differences there in those different end markets.
Yes.
The biggest peak for business we have in Global Finish group is our OEM product finishes.
This is where we're coating durable goods in a manufactured factory environment for sales and I think that's been probably the softer of the 3 segments.
The Protective and Marine coatings which is also embedded in here has probably been the stronger of the 3 segments and Automotive would be somewhere in the middle.
Our next question comes from the line of John Roberts of Buckingham Research.
One of your largest global competitors had some uncertainty in the executive suite right now and their U.S.
strategy has been a little bit debatable.
Does that already see to maintaining some flexibility here over the next couple of quarters to see whether or not they shift gears? No.
I think that there's a lot of different things out there right now.
I don't think specifically that asset is causing us to keep our balance sheet flexible.
Okay.
How about store openings? Might want to wait to see what happens to store openings? No.
Their store model has been diminishing as an impactful competitor and our plans to continue opening stores are in line with our long-term strategy of building out density strengthening some of the weaker markets and that doesn't change regardless of their actions.
Our final question of the day comes from the line of Jeff Jeffrey Zekauskas as a follow-up question of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow-up on the question I asked an hour ago.
In asking you about TiO2 I think Chris made a throwaway comment where he said "Well I think there's a lot more room for TiO2 prices to fall." And I was wondering why you thought that? Well I think we're historians here Jeff as you know and we've been through a number of these titanium runs in the past.
I think if some of the earlier questions about the industry moving aggressively to try to find replacement technologies and a lot of that work's just coming to fruition as we see continuing softness in some of these global markets.
As demand continues to remain weak here history would indicate this commodity will continue to have some softness in pricing.
Time will tell.
We are just starting the early tipping over points.
Now we see the spot market is retracted probably 10 percentage points plus or minus a little bit from the peak and our expectation would be that in past cycles that wasn't the end of the pull back that it would continue from there.
Research Division</strong> So what caused the tip in that TiO2 demand to stand very very weak now for almost a year and then finally in the second or at the end of the second quarter it sort of broke.
What caused the break? Or how did the timing work? I think it's all in demand.
We talked about the price announcements that were put in by the industry softening beginning as early as last year about this same time where they had previously been getting 100% of their announced price increases for the better part of 8 9 10 quarters and then the fourth quarter won about 50% effectiveness similar to first quarter and we think the industry basically did not take the second quarter announcement at all.
So it didn't just break recently it's been softening now over the past 12 months as demand has been falling off and that's all that demand.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Wells for any closing comments.
Thanks again Jesse.
Those of you who are still on the call have gone above and beyond the call of duty with an 1 hour and 10 minutes.
As usual we'll be around today and all day tomorrow to take your follow-up calls.
We'd like to thank you once again for joining us today and thanks for your continued interest in Sherwin-Williams.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining the Sherwin-Williams Company's Review of Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Results and Expectations for 2013.
With us on today's call are Chris Connor Chairman and CEO; Sean Hennessy Senior Vice President Finance and CFO; Al Mistysyn Vice President Corporate Controller; and Bob Wells Senior Vice President Corporate Communications.
This conference call is being webcast simultaneously in listen-only mode by Vcall via the Internet at www.sherwin.com.
An archived replay of this webcast will be available at www.sherwin.com beginning approximately 2 hours after this conference call ends and will be available until Thursday February 21 2013 at   5 p.m.
Eastern time.
This conference call will include certain forward-looking statements as defined under U.S.
federal securities laws with respect to sales earnings and other matters.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A full declaration regarding forward-looking statements is provided in the company's earnings release transmitted earlier this morning.
After the company's prepared remarks we will open the session to questions.
I will now turn the call over to Bob Wells.
Thanks Jesse.
Good morning everyone.
In order to allow more time for questions we provided balance sheet items and other statistical data on our website sherwin.com under Investor Relations 2012 Year-end Press Release.
Summarizing overall company performance for the fourth quarter and full year 2012 consolidated sales for the fourth quarter increased 7.3% to $2.22 billion due primarily to higher paint sales volume to our Paint Stores Group and selling price increases.
For the full year sales increased 8.8% to $9.53 billion.
Sales from acquisitions increased consolidated net sales approximately 0.9% in the quarter and year.
Currency translation rate changes decreased consolidated net sales 1% in the quarter and 1.8% for the year.
Consolidated gross margin in the fourth quarter increased to 45.5% of sales from 42.8% of sales in the fourth quarter 2011.
For the year gross margin increased to 44.3% of sales from 42.7% last year.
The increase in gross margin for the quarter and year was due primarily to higher selling prices and the positive effect of higher production volumes partially offset by higher year-over-year raw material costs.
Selling general and administrative expense in dollars increased $74 million in the fourth quarter compared to fourth quarter last year an increase as a percent of sales to 37.3% from 36.4% in the same quarter last dollars but decreased as a percent of sales to 33.5% from 33.8% in 2011.
Incremental SG&amp;A from acquisitions new stores and customer service investments accounted for the majority of the SG&amp;A increase in the year.
Impairment charges for the planned conversion of various trademarks totaled $4.1 million in the fourth quarter and full year 2012 compared to $5.5 million in 2011.
Interest expense for the quarter increased $2.2 million to $11.9 million.
For the year interest expense was $42.8 million compared with $42.5 million in 2011.
Our effective income tax rate for the fourth quarter 2012 decreased to 32.7% from 88.8% in the fourth quarter of 2011.
As a reminder fourth quarter last year income tax expense included a onetime after-tax charge of approximately $75 million to satisfy our settlement with the IRS.
For the year our effective tax rate was 31.1% in 2012 compared to 40.4% in 2011.
Excluding the IRS settlement our full year 2011 effective tax rate would have been 30.3%.
Consolidated net income for the quarter increased $102.7 million to $117.2 million.
For the year net income increased $238.3 million to $680.2 million.
Net income as a percent of sales in the quarter increased to 5.3% from 0.7% last year.
For the year net income as a percent of sales increased to 7.1% from 5% in 2011.
Diluted net income per common share for the fourth quarter 2012 increased to $1.12 from $0.14 per share in the fourth quarter 2011.
For the year diluted net income per common share increased 56.8% to $6.49 per share from $4.14 per share in 2011.
Now I'd like to review our performance by segment.
Sales for our Paint Stores Group in the fourth quarter 2012 increased 9.8% to $1.25 billion.
For the year net sales increased 13.2% to $5.41 billion.
Sales increases in the quarter and year resulted primarily from higher paint sales volumes across all customer segments and slightly higher year-over-year selling prices.
Comparable store sales increased 9.2% in the quarter and 12.5% in the year.
Regionally in the fourth quarter our Southwest division led all divisions followed by Southeast division Midwest division and Eastern Division.
All 4 Paint Stores divisions recorded positive sales in the fourth quarter.
Segment operating profit for the Paint Stores Group increased 36.1% to $181.5 million from $133.4 million in the fourth quarter last year.
For the full year Paint Stores Group operating profit increased 33.5% to $861.8 million from $645.7 million in 2011.
The increase in segment profit for the quarter and year resulted from higher paint sales volumes and selling price increases that were partially offset by higher raw material costs and SG&amp;A expense.
Segment operating profit for the fourth quarter -- operating profit margin for the fourth quarter increased to 14.6% from 11.8% last year.
Profit margin for the full year 2012 increased to 15.9% from 13.5% in 2011.
Turning now to Consumer Group.
Fourth quarter external net sales increased 1.4% to $255.8 million due primarily to acquisitions partially offset by lower sales volumes to most of the group's larger retail customers.
For the year Consumer Group sales increased 3.7% to $1.32 billion from $1.27 billion in 2011 as a result of higher selling prices and acquisitions.
Acquisitions increased net sales by 6.5% in the quarter and 3.2% in the year.
Segment operating profit for the fourth quarter decreased to $23.3 million from $30.2 million last year due primarily to a more normal seasonal reduction in our internal finished goods inventory compared to fourth quarter last year and to higher raw material costs that were partially offset by selling price increases.
For the year segment operating profit increased 24.6% to $216.4 million from $173.7 million in 2011 due primarily to selling price increases and improved operating efficiencies partially offset by higher raw material cost.
As a percent of net sales Consumer Group's operating profit in the fourth quarter decreased to 9.1% from 12% last year.
For the year operating margin increased to 16.4% from 13.6% in 2011.
For our Global Finishes Group net sales in the fourth quarter increased 5.1% to $487.1 million due primarily to higher sales volumes and selling price increases partially offset by unfavorable currency translation.
For the year Global Finishes Group sales increased 4.4% to $1.96 billion due primarily to selling price increases higher sales volumes and acquisitions partially offset by unfavorable currency.
Acquisitions increased the group sales in the U.S.
-- in U.S.
dollars by 1.8% in the year.
Currency translations decreased sales in U.S.
dollars by 1.4% in the quarter and decreased sales by 3.5% in the year.
Global Finishes Group segment operating profit for the fourth quarter increased to $34.1 million from $13 million last year.
For the year segment operating profit increased to $147.2 million from $90.3 million last year.
In the quarter and year higher selling prices volume growth and good expense control more than offset raw material cost inflation.
Unfavorable currency translation and acquisitions reduced segment profit $3.4 million in the quarter and $11.9 million in the year.
As a percent of net sales Global Finishes Group operating profit was 7% in the fourth quarter compared to 2.8% last year and 7.5% for the year compared to 4.8% in 2011.
For our Latin American Coatings Group net sales increased 5.2% to $231.5 million in the quarter and increased 0.9% to $836.1 million for the full year due primarily to higher year-over-year selling prices and increased sales volume partially offset by unfavorable currency translation.
Currency translation decreased sales in U.S.
dollars by 6.7% in the quarter and 10.2% in the year.
Stated in U.S.
dollars Latin American Coatings Group segment profit in the quarter increased 14.3% to $30.1 million.
For the year segment profit increased 7.6% to $81.2 million.
In both the quarter and year segment profit improvement resulted primarily from price increases and higher sales volume partially offset by higher raw material costs and unfavorable currency translation.
Currency translation decreased segment profit $2 million in the quarter and decreased profit $9.7 million in the year.
As a percent of net sales segment operating profit was 13% in the fourth quarter compared to 12% last year and 9.7% for the year compared to 9.1% in 2011.
I'll conclude this review with a brief update on the status of our lead litigation.
The Santa Clara case involving claims of public nuisance brought by 10 cities and counties in California against 5 defendant companies continues to move forward.
At a recent pretrial hearing the judge presiding over the case set a trial date of June 29 2013 to allow the parties more time to complete the discovery process and file this positive pretrial motion.
That concludes my review of our results for fourth quarter and full year 2012.
So I'll turn the call over to Chris Connor who will make some general comments and highlight our expectations for 2013.
Chris? Thanks Bob good morning everybody thanks for joining us today.
2012 was a year of many milestones for Sherwin-Williams.
For the year we set all-time high watermarks for consolidated sales net income earnings per share and net operating cash.
We also reported record sales and earnings per share in each of the 4 quarters during the year.
And 3 of our 4 reportable segments established all-time peaks in sales and segment profit this past year.
Additionally our Paint Stores Group eclipsed the 3 500 store mark and we recruited more than 1 000 college graduates into our management-training program both all-time highs.
Finally late in the year we announced a definitive agreement to acquire Comex.
Once this since transaction is completed it will be the largest acquisition in our company's history.
These milestones and others we celebrated in 2012 were the direct result of our decision to stay the course to stick with our strategy when market conditions collapsed back in 2008 and 2009.
Since that time we have continued to invest in new distribution and new product technology.
We continue to invest in quality and productivity initiatives across our supply chain.
We continue to recruit right motivated men and women into our management-training programs and prepare them for leadership assignments.
We believe the effects of these investments are cumulative and the outcomes we achieved this past year are repeatable.
It's pretty obvious based on our SG&amp;A spending in 2012 and particularly in the fourth quarter that the pace of these investments actually increased throughout the year.
While the higher SG&amp;A did dampen earnings we believe the timing of these investments couldn't be better.
Most of the $235 million increase in SG&amp;A for the year fell into 1 of 3 of buckets.
The largest was our investment in new stores including new sales and customer service employees which accounted for more than half of the overall SG&amp;A increase.
The second bucket was incentive compensation which was higher this year as our selling organization and field management shared in the benefits of their record results.
The smallest bucket was acquisitions and infrastructure investment including IT.
If you believed that 2012 marked the beginning of a sustainable recovery in many of our end markets now is the ideal time to build sales and customer service capacity which is precisely what we did.
In 2012 our Paint Stores Group added 70 net new stores bringing our store count in the U.S.
Canada and the Caribbean to 3 520 compared to 3 450 locations 1 year ago.
Our plan for 2013 calls for new store openings in the range of 70 to 80 locations.
We also hired a 1 140 new sales and customer service employees to bolster our store staffing and improve our territory coverage.
Our Latin American Coatings Group added 11 net new stores during the year for a total now of 276 locations throughout the region.
These investments in new stores store staff and rep coverage pay for themselves in a very short period of time.
Consistent investment relies on strong dependable cash generation.
Again in 2012 our net operating cash increased $152 million to $888 million or about 9.3% of sales.
If you add back the cash settlement paid to the IRS that Bob mentioned earlier in the first quarter of this year cash from operations for the year approached 10% of net sales our long-term objective.
A portion of this increase came from our continued progress in working capital management.
Our working capital ratio declined to 10.8% of sales at year-end from 10.9% of sales at the end of 2011.
In anticipation of closing the Comex acquisition in the first half of 2013 in December we placed $1 billion of new debt in 5- and 30-year maturities at a blended average rate of 2.1%.
As a result we finished the year with an uncharacteristically high cash balance of $863 million.
During the fourth quarter we acquired 800 000 shares of the company's stock for treasury bringing our full year total to 4.6 million shares at an average cost of $121.25 per share and a total investment of $558 million for the year.
At year-end we had remaining authorization to acquire another 16.5 million shares.
Over the past year we returned $161 million in cash to shareholders through quarterly dividends.
2012 marked our 34th consecutive year of increased dividends per share a string we intend to continue.
This year at our February meeting of the Board of Directors I will recommend approval of a payout rate for 2013 consistent with our policy of 30% at prior year's earnings per share.
I'll close my comments this morning by highlighting yet one more all-time record of guidance for 2013.
Our full year guidance calls for diluted earnings per share in the range of $7.35 to $7.55 per share a 15.6% increase at the midpoint on mid-single-digit sales growth.
For the first quarter we're earnings per share in a range of $1.03 to $1.13 a 13.7% increase at midrange on top of a strong first quarter in 2012 and we'll accomplish that on low-single-digit sales growth.
Neither of these ranges include any earnings contributions from the Comex acquisition but do include the approximately $21 million of additional interest expense on the incremental debt.
While some members on The Street are above these ranges this constitutes the largest increase in full year earnings guidance in both dollars and percentage terms in our company's history.
While our expectation for top line growth may appear modest it will come almost entirely from volume.
Nearly all of the impact from our previous price increases have annualized and our guidance this year anticipates very little incremental pricing.
We begin each year with some level of uncertainty and 2013 is no exception.
Despite the steadily improving health of many of our end markets and the positive trends we've seen in the cost of certain commodities we remain cautious.
Market demand and volume recovery has been erratic across geographies and end markets and we expect that will continue.
Currency translation is also likely to remain a headwind to sales and earnings throughout the year particularly in our Latin American markets.
Our raw material basket has many moving parts as well.
But in total it remains biased towards inflation.
While we have seen some easing in titanium pricing over the back half of 2012 propylene the key raw material feedstock has increased 30% from $0.55 per pound last quarter to $0.72 per pound today.
This will keep some upward pressure on the price of monomers and latex in the first half of 2013.
Based upon our assumptions and improving price stability in titanium and increased volatility in propylene we would expect average year-over-year raw material cost inflation to be in the low single-digit range in 2013.
Our visibility in each of these areas improved significantly as we go through the year.
And as always we'll adjust our expectations accordingly.
Again I'd like to thank you for joining us this morning.
And now the team would be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a sense as to what your full year '13 guidance assumes for U.S.
paint gallons for the industry? And if you could of course take it one step further in terms of expectations for existing and new home sales? Well clearly we're most optimistic about U.S.
architectural market.
And we do believe that residential will probably be the strongest driver in that market again.
But just as a reminder to everyone on the call U.S.
architectural gallons typically grow at a rate in the range of GDP.
And even in a recovery year if you consider 1.5x to 2x that rate you're still in the probably 3% to 4% range for U.S.
architectural volume.
And this is Sean Hennessy.
And on top of that when you talk about this gallonage when you start looking at this guidance again last year when you look -- and we will just talk about stores.
Stores for the year the selling price was up single -- mid-single digits.
This year we really have very slight pricing in our guidance this year.
So we're going up against that pricing that we had last year.
And so the sales are really more indicative of higher percentage of unit growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then switching to global finishes.
Were volumes for the quarter in line with the expectations? It seemed to be a little bit stronger than 4Q '11.
And if you can parse out the various verticals how they performed during the quarter.
Actually global finishes when we take a look at the quarter performed very close to what we had expected.
And I will tell you that the sales were in the high end of the range.
It really was because of stores being a little bit stronger than what we've thought.
As far as the 3 segments I'm not prepared -- I don't have -- when you look at the automotive and so forth we're not prepared to go through that.
The next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar of Citi.
Research Division</strong> There has been significant M&amp;A in Paints.
With your Comex deal PPG acquiring Akzo's U.S.
business.
Do you expect that pace to continue? And what does it mean for margins in the industry if you remove some of these underperforming businesses? Well obviously we don't expect that Paints like that to continue.
Those were 2 extremely large deals in our industry and the universe of property of that size and scale are diminishing.
So as we have commented for many years P.J.
from our M&amp;A strategy there's an awful lot of small bolt-on both technologies and controlled distribution plays.
So I think that's more will likely what you'll see going forward.
I don't know that these 2 deals will have a significant impact on margin.
The bigger issue on margins in our industry as we've shared with the investment communities has been the impact of raw material cost pressures and the ability to pass those along over a period of time.
And I think those dynamics will continue to play out pretty much unchanged regardless of these potential acquisitions that may or may not close.
And the other thing P.J.
This is again Sean Hennessy.
When you speak of operating margins I would say that a lot of this the infrastructure the admin costs the percent of sales those are the things that you're going to see up -- are going to see operating margin from us expand from these but more from infrastructure and those type of SG&amp;A efficiencies.
Research Division</strong> And secondly you mentioned there was normal inventory decline in the consumer group.
Was there a destocking by your channel partner that's now behind us? And do you see a rebound in 2013? Yes I think this is actually we try to use the word internal.
And if you -- and I'm just going to go back a year.
If remember in the third quarter of 2011 we did bring the inventory in line.
And the reason we did that is in the first half of the year in 2011 we are coming -- we're anniversarying the shortages in some of some products that we needed and we overspent in 2010.
So we allowed the inventory to build in 2011.
In third quarter we allowed that inventory to drop which depressed Consumer Group's operating margin.
And what we said at that time is this was a little abnormal for us in the fourth quarter when you look at the year.
So if you look at the third quarter 2011 in Consumer the operating margin was depressed.
The fourth quarter was a little higher than normal.
And now we're anniversarying those situations.
So it's internal inventory.
Our inventory remains fairly flat in the third quarter in Consumer and then it dropped in the fourth quarter which is more normal for our sales curve and in our history of our company.
So this year the third quarter operating margins for Consumer was very strong.
This year the fourth quarter was depressed.
And for the full year the consumer group had really nice operating margins.
Next year I don't expect that third and fourth quarter adjustment to occur again.
So it will be more normalized next year.
The next question comes from line of Chris Nocella of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe can you break your sales growth guidance directionally at least between the segments for 2013? I think that if you take a look at it we prefer not to do that.
I mean we really don't do that.
But I think what you can probably tell is we're -- Store Group with the unit volume will probably be the strongest.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just for 2012 what's your best guess in how that volume through the stores was split between new build and repaint? I'd say it was probably very consistent Chris with the kind of the overall market environment.
We have said that for a long period of time that the new construction market would account for somewhere in the 20% to 25% demand for architectural coatings.
That was probably a little depressed from that number because we still have not seen the kind of rebound both in housing as well as commercial start.
So -- let's assume in the high teens was the amount of the gallons that were used for new construction.
The remainder would have been for maintenance and redecorating.
The next question comes from the line of Don Carson with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions one just a clarification on volumes.
Of the 12.5% same-store sales growth in Paint Store Sales Group this year were you saying that half was price half was volume? No more than half but very close because of that mid-single-digit.
More than half of volume Don.
Right.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So are you forecasting volumes to be relatively flat.
Is that what's implied in your -- or that the growth will be equivalent in 2013 to 2012 in terms of your volume level for Paint Stores Group? When you say volume flat flat for 2012? LLLP Research Division</strong> No I meant growth rate the same flat growth rate yes.
Right.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And then one additional question Chris did I hear you say you expect TiO2 to stabilize this year? Yes Don we would expect TiO2 pricing to be more stable in 2013 that we've seen over the past few years.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just final question.
I know you have some tough comps in first quarter.
So I was a little surprised that you're still expecting some low-single-digit growth.
Is that maybe you can  just give us some more background on why you think you're going to get growth over such tough comp? Yes I think Bob commented that we really have confidence in particularly the North American residential repaint market.
And we have been accelerating in that space.
We've been seeing the return of the painting contractor do a higher percentage of the purchase of architectural coatings throughout the year and those trend lines are continuing.
So despite the fact that we got a pretty high hurdle on the jump we're giving the kind of guidance from the clarity that we can see in the quarter and we expect to be able to hit these numbers.
The next question comes from line of Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Chris I appreciate the disaggregation of SG&amp;A that you've provided.
If we put the Comex deal on the side for a moment do you think that the uplift in 2013 on the SG&amp;A line will be similar to what you experienced in 2012? Perhaps you could comment on a forward-looking basis on some of the 3 buckets that you mentioned there and what that looks like for this year? Yes.
So if you look at SG&amp;A for the year it actually was down as a percent of sales.
So the fourth quarter had a little bit of acceleration.
Overall it was a kind of discipline that we could bring to managing that part that I think was at play throughout the year.
We did comment about the decision to continue to heavy-up.
I think we began the year with a little lower store count expectation and kind of accelerated to get to that 70 store in the fourth quarter.
40 of our 70 stores actually came in the fourth quarter this year in terms of their openings.
So we were a little late-in-the-year heavy-handed in that particular area.
And that's been pretty typical for the way that the stores flow in for us in past years as well.
In our expectations for next year that SG&amp;A will continue to improve as a percent of sales.
We're going to continue to make these investments.
We'll put in more stores next year than this year as we guided.
So I think that it's been a pretty consistent track record here and it should continue again into 2013.
Research Division</strong> And second question I think in the past you've commented a bit on your efforts to minimize the amount of TIO2 required as a company to the extent that that makes sense through reformulation efforts in certain cases.
Can you provide an update on that? Is it ongoing? Is there -- where do you stand now? Is there more to take out in 2013? Yes I think we have commented Kevin along with a number of other of our global coatings competitors who are also purchasers of this material that there are a lot of activities under way to try to eliminate the amount of titanium load neither in a typical gallon of paint.
We have talked about the ability to make those conversions to lower grades.
We have titanium particularly outside the North America and those activities are at play as well.
And I think the numbers that you hear that perhaps 5% to -- as much as 10% of this titanium eventually can perhaps be displaced is not an inappropriate target.
We've also commented that given our focus on the professional painting contractor and unwillingness to really change a lot of the raw material content in these products who are likely to be lagger on that path because this will be more of future products as opposed to our current product line.
And I can tell you that all those activities continue to be under way with our R&amp;D team.
The next question comes from the line of Nils Wallin of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just curious about the store growth that you had this year and your expectations for next year.
Are you focused on particular regions? And how would those regions compare with where you'll bulk up once the Comex deal gets approved? Yes Nils.
As we have commented throughout our time here that the Store growth will come literally across the entire geographic footprint that we've identified -- stores that we've managed is Canada U.S.
and the Caribbean.
We have around 160 district managers each of whom built a real estate plan.
We don't have a single one of these districts that considers themself fully penetrated.
So we have opportunities literally in every market across the United States.
And typically what we do is try to do about 70% of our store openings annually would be typical fill-ins where we're giving one store to each of these districts.
And then about 30% of that count will be more of a heavy-up concentration in markets where we're underpenetrated.
We shared with the investment community that throughout all of Canada and the Western markets of the United States are where those underpenetrated markets are for us.
And so we'll continue to heavy-up in those spaces.
If we're successful in concluding the Comex transaction their 300-plus store count beautifully lays over that density map and really strengthens our Canadian and Western Market store count.
Even with those stores however we'll still be far from what we would consider to be full penetration.
So this notion of continuing to add these stores at about this pace for years and years to come would remain part of our strategy.
We've been talking about the ability to get to 5 000 stores throughout this North American geography.
And with the addition of the Comex stores plus the 80 stores we're planning to open this year 70 to 80 stores that we have in the guidance we would still be below 4 000 stores.
So a long way to go.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then just on your incremental margin in the Paint Stores Group was quite strong this year around 30%.
With new products bulking up on your SG&amp;A can you -- do you think you'll be able to continue that same sort of incremental margin or operating leverage in 2013 and beyond? Or is it -- will it decelerate some? Just as you mentioned the ROS that we -- margin that we did run the Stores Group this year was an all-time high clips in the prior by 15 -- it was 15.5 the prior high.
This year 15.9.
So when we used to talk about the 15.5 years ago we'd say that's -- we don't think that's the top.
We think if we continue to -- can get admin as a percent of sales down and other types of admin costs we think that we can beat it.
We feel the same way of the 15.9.
I don't think that next year our management -- we still believe that we're going to have incremental flow-through that's very strong as long as the market continues to recover.
Our next question comes from the line of Dmitry Silverstein with Longbow Research.
A couple of questions if I may.
I'm trying to understand your revenue guidance in light of what you're talking about improving markets.
You're starting out the year with double -- with mid-single-digit growth in Paints and you're going to end the year overall with low single-digit growth.
So there's a deceleration coming in after the first quarter.
And to follow up on earlier question the first quarter seems to be the most difficult comps on year-over-year basis.
I just want to understand with the contractors coming back with commercial construction accelerating with the housing market continuing to do better why would you expect a slowdown in your growth rate as the year unfolds? I'm just trying to pull out the press release.
But I think in the first quarter we gave you guidance of low-single-digit and mid-single-digit for the year.
That would tell you that the second third and fourth quarter is going to be stronger than the first quarter as far as year-over-year comparisons.
And so secondly if you sit there and say well if start adding the 2 years together.
Again first quarter last year was the quarter if you remember stores grew kind of 20 -- approximately 20% comp store gain and nearly half of that was price whereas for the full year we ended up with the mid-single digits for price.
So as we go along we're going to go have that hurdle of the price not helping us as we go along.
So when you go from the first quarter at mid -- at low-single digits to mid we see it exactly -- probably a little differently than you do.
Your press release is correct.
But I think what you've said on this conference call and you may have misspoken that's what I picked up on was the opposite.
But okay with the press release it makes sense.
You start out slow and you accelerate as the year unfolds.
My second question is on the guidance range that you provided.
It's $0.10 for the first quarter and $0.10 for the year.
I guess I'm surprised by either too tight of a guidance for the year or too loose of a guidance first quarter.
How do you feel about that? I mean it looks like that there's -- it just seems that there should have been a wider guidance for the year.
But perhaps you'll feel better as the year unfolds in the total developments in the market? I think it goes back to Dmitry I don't know how long you've been -- I lost track of when you started covering us but prior to 2008 we used to give $0.10 guidance...
Range.
Range.
For the range.
And when you take a look at what's happened we actually at one year we came out with $1 range.
We said our EPS would come in between $3 and $4.
I remember that.
And we actually came in at $3.78 that year.
And when you take a look at it it was because of the variability that was going on in raws and the markets.
And there was a lot of different names that was going on in 2009 2010.
And as we said back then we got a lot of pressure: "Why did you widen it too far?" We said as we get more and more clarity you'll see us reduce the size of this the range.
So the way to I guess really the key at least way to interpret this is that the market seems to have subsided into a more normalized behavior that's more predictable from historical basis? Correct.
The next question comes from the line of Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> My questions will be easier.
My first one was just trying to piece apart the guidance.
It's a little tricky right now because you're not factoring in any benefit from Comex but obviously you're taking a hit on the interest line.
And just wanted to think through some of the moving parts.
So on the share repurchase you would think you are going to probably pull back with the deal ahead of you.
Are you factoring anything related to share repurchase into the guidance? Dennis that was the hardest part to do this guidance.
Because whether we complete the Comex deal or not we're going to pay that interest.
But we do have a factor -- we have a couple different scenarios when Comex occurs and so forth I will tell you our guidance right now does show stock repurchase.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just on the tax rate what should we assume there? We're a little higher than what we experienced the last 2 years last year with the adjustments in the IRS and this year when we came in at 31.1%.
We think that we're going to be a little higher than that 31.1% but no higher than 33%.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So I think if you run that through and the top line assumptions.
So might think you've talked about maybe it's modest margin expansion for the full year.
And it sounds like you expect SG&amp;A to be down on a year-over-year basis percentage of sales.
So can you maybe just help us bridge that on a gross margin line sort of what you're assuming and kind of that guidance on the low-single-digit raw material inflation how that sorts out with some of the other action that you have? Well we don't want to go through line by line and tell you our guidance.
But I think mathematically I think it's pretty easy to do if you use a tax rate a little higher than have today.
Interest $20-some million higher than today.
And you back in and if you use a slightly smaller share count it's going to tell you what our operating margin is there.
There is going to be improvement there.
And so if you show the SG&amp;A as a percent of sales improving and I think that you can back into the gross margin if there's going to be gross margin improvement this year.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I guess just on some of the top line.
I think Chris you may have commented that maybe you're a little bit more conservative or conservative on the end channels just given some of volatility that you've seen lately.
Is that true to across the domestic markets? Is there any one area where you guys are seeing maybe more volatility or more hesitancy among customers that makes maybe a little less confident in the recovery? I think the government actually came out this morning with the GDP estimates for the fourth quarter which were retracted.
And so when we look at our core more commercial our protective and marine segments commercial starts those are things that we have a little less clarity at Dennis.
I think our guidance and our confidence really stems from this residential repaint domestic North American housing market and that can carry us through a lot of rougher spots.
And as we said as we get into the year and we start to see a little better market dynamics unfolding we'll be able to comment on that.
But for right now I think we're probably relying on this residential repaint market to be the driver.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt McGinley of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> On the consumer segment last quarter you had stated that some of the weakness that you had there was across most product types and channels.
Is that still the case? And what do you think is still driving that unit weakness in that segment? Yes I think we did exactly say that Matt that our sales both to our customers and their out-the-doors lagged the same sales performance that we're seeing through our own stores.
Time will tell as we get into the selling season and come through the winter weather and that the spring paint season picks up for these folks.
But our share position there has been maintained with the exception of the Walmart business which we've commented on in the past.
We did take some additional private label business there that we're shifting from our manufacturer to a competitors' sourcing.
And that was somewhat of an impact.
But even factoring that out this was a fairly flat performing segment for us.
Research Division</strong> What do you think the long-run organic growth rate should be within that segment? Well we've commented for a long period of time that our expectations are flat low single-digit sales growth for this group.
And this comes from the dynamics of the competitive landscape that we've created for ourselves in the United States.
So the particular retail partners that we enjoy the business with will -- we benefit when they grow and improve.
And time will tell how that all shakes out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a quick one on the inventory.
Your inventory is basically down a little bit year-over-year.
Was that primarily driven by this plan in raw material cost or your unit inventory's still down year-over-year? No our unit inventory is down.
We're in pretty good shape with inventory.
But there was improvement with terms and so forth.
Our next question comes from the line of Chuck Cerankosky of Northcoast Research.
When we talk about this environment you're seeing Chris for 2013 with the flatter price outlook do you expect competition for volume to be a little more aggressive because price is not making up the difference for some paint manufacturers? We've been blessed with great competition for 147 years Chuck.
We absolutely expect that there'll be competition for these gallons.
And we face that the dynamic every single year and we would expect to be in that same environment again this year.
But do you think with less price inflation in there it gets a little tougher Chris? I'm not sure that I do.
I mean I think it's tough when you have price and then it's tough when there isn't price.
We've been in this environment before.
Even within the last several years we've had periods of time when there was -- I think we went 22 months without a price increase back before this titanium run.
And so we got through that segment.
We had gallon gains in there against these same competitors that you're talking about.
It really comes down to the quality of the product the distribution support the caliber of the field selling organization.
These are all areas where we've been muscle-building and we would expect to be able to actually be in a little stronger position this cycle that we were the last time given the expansion in store counts and the widening of the gap of our service capabilities.
All right.
And one for Sean.
When you're talking about the guidance for 2013 do you have any expenses in there for the Comex transaction simply for what you have to spend on ahead of getting the deal done similar to the debt financing? Very little Chuck.
I think that -- you can imagine we have some advisers that we are working with but I would say it's going to be really immaterial to our first quarter.
So we would see those immaterial in the first quarter and you're still expecting a close by the end of the quarter.
That's in the hands of the government.
And we are not really able to comment on that.
We would -- we'd love to be able to make that date work but time will tell.
So we'll see that bulk of the transaction costs apart -- and separating from those from any integration costs we'll see the bulk of those when you close? Yes.
The quarter that the close you're going to have the inventory step-up.
You' going to have some other expenses onetime only expenses that quarter will definitely be -- will be dilutive from the Comex acquisition because of those first quarter expenses then it'll start to be accretive.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Koort of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Brian Maguire on for Bob today.
Chris I just want to clarify your comment on pricing for '13.
I heard you say that there wasn't going to be any real benefit from pricing at '13.
I just wanted to see if you're talking about no incremental price increases from here on out or does that mean that you wouldn't see the benefit from just anniversarying the price increases you've already done? In other words is there truly no benefit year-over-year or is it just no benefit from here on out? Yes.
I think when we made the comment we didn't anticipate any pricing activity in the year given where we see the raw material basket at this point in time that guidance is as good as the word of raw material suppliers.
And as we've commented frequently we really are a raw material input cost pricer to our customers.
So if we're able to maintain these kinds of raw material costs as we're entering the year or what we're forecasting the year then we would anticipate very little pricing activity.
Our last price increase was actually in February of last year.
So there is a little bit of pricing still.
We're at the very tail end of integrating that.
So for the most part of this year there won't be any lift from pricing activity.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a follow-up as it relates to the gross margin outlook and if pricing is going to be kind of flat to modestly and if your raw outlook is for low-single-digit inflation I don't think about there being much fixed cost in your model.
I think more of a variable cost model.
So does that imply your thinking and currently is sort of roughly flat to just modestly up gross margins? No I think when you start taking -- look this is when you start asking sequentially.
It's probably your answer there sequentially you can see that.
But I think that if you go quarter-over-quarter that first quarter that gross margin was really depressed because the raws we're anniversarying and so forth and we were putting the price increase in.
But we do expect to have gross margin improvement in the first quarter.
And -- or else we would it be able to get over that great quarter we had.
But sequentially I can understand your answer there.
Brian and our margins have always been helped too as volumes increase your point about the fixed costs of the company.
So these incremental gallons start going through this entire supply chain that has an impact on us as well too.
So for Sean's earlier answer to Dennis if you do the math on that I think you'll get to -- what we would expect to be another good year of margin gross margin improvement for the company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in North America 2 of your larger store competitors are apparently merging later this year.
Do you anticipate any change in competitive behavior? Or how will that dynamic kind of influence you going forward? Yes given the status of their acquisition as well which has not been finalized I think it would just be inappropriate to make any comments about that at this time.
The next question comes from the line of Aram Rubinson with Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> The question is on the gross profit dollar line.
Can you give us by segment the delta in gross profit dollars that you often do? Sure.
In Paint Stores Group was $96.2 million.
In Consumer Group it was actually backwards $1.3 million.
In the Global Finishes Group $26.9 million.
In the Latin America Group it was an increase of $4.4 million.
Research Division</strong> It looks almost as if in your Paint Stores Group that you've kind of gotten back everything you gave away last year in the fourth quarter.
That's -- I'll tell you that definitely looks -- I will tell you right there that you're accurate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one other question just on reinvesting.
Clearly the acquisition of Comex is a major reinvest.
You've talked about raising SG&amp;A for new stores on reinvest.
Where are we in other areas of the business? You've mentioned in the past that we don't need any capacity to come on board I assume for manufacturing.
Is that still the case? And if you weren't doing the acquisition how many stores would you have opened organically.
Yes I don't think the store opening organic has been impacted at all by this acquisition.
We are steady on this pace 80 is a great number.
We've said that's probably the sustainable number as low as 50 to 60 as high as 100 over a long period of time 80 is kind right in the sweet spot on this march up to 5 000 stores.
So there's been no capacity constraint or corporate constraint on our Stores Group to hold them back from growing in an appropriate pace.
So I don't expect that to change.
Regarding other investment opportunities there around the world for us we have commented that after a fairly robust M&amp;A period of building out infrastructure both in Europe and Asia-Pacific to service our OEM product finishes businesses that we feel comfortable with the infrastructure we have.
Future acquisitions would likely be more smaller technology bolt-ons than they would be brick-and-mortar.
And the same can be said of Latin America where we also have a pretty good infrastructure.
We still remain interested in building all those businesses and we'll look for the appropriate deals to do.
North America still remains the key market where we have the ability to do open stores at this pace.
And so that's where you can see us really focus our efforts going forward.
And if I may the other thing that we've definitely are investing in is IT systems.
If you tracked our company for quite a while back in the '90s working capital was in the high-teens almost 20%.
We think what really help us -- what helped the operations to do that was IT.
And I think we're starting to see some of that.
That's going to help our cash flow and I think down the road as we continue to try to improve our cash generation for sales.
So I think we're also doing that around the world as [indiscernible] bought these assets.
Research Division</strong> Before I go is it okay to ask for the inventory adjustment dollar amount that you usually take at the end of the year if it's available? It's not available.
We're not there yet.
The next question comes from the line of Charles Dan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the SG&amp;A spending.
It looks like the unallocated portion or the administrative line was up significantly this year in dollars and as a percentage of sales.
To the extent that that's where some of the incentive comp or infrastructure spending is is that the sort of right level to think of as a base going forward? Or was it impacted by the timing of incentive comp as the share price was rising? Just helping us understand how that -- what the new base is going forward there? Everything you said there is really accurate.
Really this segment was really -- when you talk about the infrastructure we just talked about IT as well as the compensation including that stock-based compensation this is where the growth occurred.
I think from that from that standpoint I think you'll see that over time flatten out and actually especially on the infrastructure spending it will begin to reduce.
The other thing that's in this group is or in this segment is our interest expense.
Our interest expense has been flat the last 2 years in that $42 million to $43 million range with the $1 billion debt that will go up $20 million.
So I think that any efficiencies we get in some of the other areas are going to be offset by the interest.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like so just to follow-up that if you excluded the interest expense you would expect the remainder to go down? Yes over time yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Duffy Fischer with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> One of the strongest pillars of the story has been your ability to get price and offset the raw mats.
And surprisingly in the last probably 45 days the biggest raw mat basket the petrochemicals and the propylene in particular jumped I think meaningfully higher than most people would have guessed 4 5 months ago.
Was it just a bad timing? Or why wouldn't we be able to get some price on the back of that big raw material increase this year? I think as we've commented Duffy I mean we  look at the basket of raws as they impact the company as opposed to any one individual segment.
We comment about individual segments when they drive the entire basket up.
But as we've given guidance about what we expect that total raw material impact for the company to be this year that would not be the level that would cause us to take pricing to our customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then if I remember you guys used to sell some Pratt &amp; Lambert paint through the Ace store system.
How big is your business Pratt &amp; Lambert and other stuff that would go through that that may be at risk with a deal that Ace is doing with Valspar.
Yes you have a good memory.
We have had over the years a number of independent Ace dealers take on the Pratt &amp; Lambert product line.
In this environment that Ace operates in they can endorse programs and make it available to their co-ops through their distribution channel.
But most of these independent dealers do carry products that they buy outside of that Ace relationship.
And so we do not have a big exposure at Ace at this point in time.
And the number of dealers that do carry Pratt &amp; Lambert may or may not elect to continue with it per their announcement of their new paint partner.
So time will tell.
But that would not be an issue that you would hear us commenting on as impacting the company.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research Company.
You talked to us about in the fourth stepping up some SG&amp;A investments across the business.
I'm curious what that the target is in terms of the payback from that if it's market share or if it's volume growth? What are you thinking that the payback might look like relative to those investments? Yes.
I think that and that's why I also mentioned the cash flow earlier Eric.
I think some of the IT spending that we did will actually help our working capital and actually help our cash generation outside the country.
And we've been working on that for many years.
Again 40 of the 70 stores came into -- were opened in the fourth quarter.
And so that's -- that's a high percentage in the fourth quarter.
And I think down the road I think they'll perform just like all the other stores do.
And I think that just timing has caused that.
So we expect to hopefully gain market share as we continue to open stores.
So I think you're going to see the same timing from the stores.
And I think in the next year or 2 you're going to see some nice cash flow coming out of our nondomestic group.
Great.
And then secondly a year ago I think the guidance for 2012 the initial guidance you ended up exceeding by a pretty meaningful amount perhaps $1 a share.
I'm curious if you look back a year ago and think about the factors that you were considering and then where the year ended up what did you do or what played out differently in '12 that allowed you to exceed by such a wide margin in your original expectation? I would tell you $0.97 it was $5.52 to $6.49.
And so when you take a look at it a couple of things occurred Eric.
Number one was our sales performance at Stores.
I think that Stores really had a great year.
I think number two was the margin improvement in Global Finishes Group.
I think that was stronger than what we had expected.
I think that integration where the fourth quarter 2011 was a little heavy in SG&amp;A because of that integration.
I think that if you look at that Global Finishes Group and what they were able to do I think those were the 2 areas.
Latin America Group did improve.
And Consumer I think was fairly close to what we expected.
Our next question comes from the line of Silke Kueck of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering whether I could try one more raw materials question if you're not tired of it yet.
Of course you can.
Research Division</strong> So what you said is this is that your TiO2 prices seemed more stable in 2013.
So in a way if they stayed stable from where they were at the end of 2012 that really would mean that there's still a significant benefit on a year-over-year basis in the first half of '13 right? Yes there was a decline in TiO2 pricing in the back half of '12 which put TiO2 pricing below certainly below 2012 peak at year-end.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And my memory with propylene prices is set.
I mean I know they're back at $0.77.
But the last thing -- but same thing happened last year.
And that is if you look at propylene prices for February March April I think they were like $0.77 maybe they were $0.76.
So on a year-over-year basis like the propylene costs may not been -- I see how that cost sequentially they'll move but a new year-over-year basis like those comparisons may not be as difficult as you make them out at first sight? I think a low single-digit inflation expectation across our total raw material basket is not -- I don't think that's a dire outlook.
Certainly not relative to our expectation over the past few years at the beginning -- at this time in the year.
Research Division</strong> So I can understand how you're like reasonably -- confident that like this 45% gross margin is probably sustainable for like at least another 6 months or so.
I think that's right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second thing is I wanted to understand what really happened to volumes in the -- on the Consumer Group side.
Like where -- so because this is now the second quarter in a row of volumes were negative.
And what exactly is happening? Because I didn't detect these volume declines like anywhere else.
Yes it's mostly Walmart Silke.
And as we've commented we've been losing share inside that for a while there.
Research Division</strong> I thought you gave that up already.
The brand and material was replaced by Glidden immediately.
And the significant portion of Walmart's vibe has been their private level under their Color Place brand name.
And so the process there was that was to be a phase-in over a period of time.
We were going from some percentage of their distributions that we supplied to significantly lower.
And those adjustments were taking place in the third and fourth quarter.
That's really the headwind that our Consumer Group was facing.
Research Division</strong> Okay I understand.
Sorry I forgot that.
And has anything changed in your goal to explore the Canadian Stores market now that PPG owns the Glidden stores there? Well our intentions have always been to continue to organically open stores throughout Canada following our Stores model.
And one of the real bright spots in this potential Comex acquisition is a brand called General Paint that operates out of British Columbia.
And that will bring a significant store count boost to our plans in Canada.
So we would expect to make significant progress in Canada this year organically and then maybe get a real shot in the arm when we get this transaction closed.
Research Division</strong> Can you enlighten us what the Comex exposure is in Canada? Yes General is the brand name.
The store count in Canada was...
78 stores.
78 stores.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And if I could a last question is like TiO2 question again.
I wanted to ask it with raw materials then I forgot.
Has sulfur-based TiO2 from China made a difference to the global supply demand balance at all? I understand that Sherwin uses chloride-based TiO2 but I was just wondering whether you had a view? Silke clearly the chloride producers have been talking about soft market conditions and weak demand all year long.
And whether that is truly weak global demand or less than robust demand partially offset or partially satisfied by increasing sulfide capacity is hard to tell.
But we suspect that it might be some of the latter.
Our next question comes from the line of John McNulty with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick question.
So when we look at the sales growth that you saw and earnings growth you saw in the Paint Store or throughout your businesses and so the Paint Store Group Lat Am the Consumer side they vary pretty significantly.
If you have any information or data on it can you let us know kind of which one Comex might have mirrored more likely through the fourth quarter and 2012? Was it closer to the Paint Store type growth or was it more similar to the Lat Am growth? I think it's probably a hybrid of both of those.
Their model would indicate that because they have such a strong distribution network and they're selling to the professional painting contractor they would have participated in more the Mexican market growth scenario.
And we think Mexico actually is a pretty good place right now.
Their GDP outperformed the U.S.
this past year.
Their housing markets and their commercial construction businesses were stronger than ours were.
So their performance should mirror closer to that.
We have not commented on this private company's results yet.
And we will obviously when we close give you a lot more transparency there John.
But at this point in time I think you just have to kind of look at the Mexican GDP market and know that Comex would be a good proxy for this same kind of businesses housing et cetera that we enjoyed through our Stores business year.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Wells for any additional closing comments.
Thanks Jesse.
Let me wrap of this morning by asking you all to save the date of Thursday May 23 on your calendars.
That's the day we'll host our annual financial community presentation at our headquarters in Cleveland Ohio.
The program will consist of our customer in morning presentations with Q&amp;A followed by a reception and lunch.
Again that date is Thursday May 23.
We'll be sending out invitations and related information in the weeks ahead.
Thanks for joining us today.
And thank you as always for your continued interest in Sherwin-Williams.
Thank you.
This includes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining the Sherwin-Williams Company's Review of the First Quarter 2013 Results and Expectations for the Second Quarter and Full Year.
With us on today's call are Chris Connor Chairman and CEO; Sean Hennessy Senior Vice President Finance and CFO; Al Mistysyn Vice President Corporate Controller; and Bob Wells Senior Vice President Corporate Communications.
This conference call is being webcast simultaneously in listen-only mode via Vcall or via the Internet at www.sherwin.com.
An archived replay of this webcast will be available at www.sherwin.com beginning approximately 2 hours after this conference call concludes and will be available until Thursday May 9 at 5:00 p.m.
Eastern time.
This conference call will include certain forward-looking statements as defined under federal securities laws with respect to sales earnings and other matters.
Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statement is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A full declaration regarding forward-looking statements is provided in the company's earnings release transmitted earlier this morning.
After review of the first quarter results we will open this session to questions.
I will now turn the call over to Bob Wells.
Thanks Robert.
In order to allow more time for questions we provided balance sheet items and other selected information on our website at sherwin.com under Investor Relations First Quarter Press Release.
Summarizing overall company performance for first quarter 2013 versus first quarter 2012.
Consolidated net sales increased 1.4% to $2.17 billion due primarily to higher paint sales volume in our Paint Stores Group.
Acquisitions increased net sales 1% in the quarter which was fully offset by unfavorable currency translation.
Consolidated gross profit dollars increased $53 million for the quarter to $962.9 million.
Gross margin increased 180 basis points to 44.4% of sales from 42.6% in the first quarter last year.
Selling general and administrative expense for the quarter increased $21 million over first quarter last year to $778.7 million.
As a percent of sales SG&amp;A increased to 35.9% in the first quarter this year from 35.5% last year.
Interest expense increased $5 million compared to the first quarter last year due to an increase in long-term debt to finance the Comex acquisition.
Consolidated profit before taxes in the quarter increased $26.1 million or 18.3% to $168.4 million.
Our effective tax rate in the first quarter this year was 31% compared to 29.6% in the first quarter of 2012.
For the full year 2013 we expect our effective tax rate will be in the low 30s compared to last year's rate of 30.4%.
Consolidated net income increased $16 million to $116.2 million.
Net income as a percent of sales was 5.4% compared to 4.7% in the first quarter last year.
Diluted net income per common share for the quarter increased to $1.11 per share from $0.95 per share in 2012.
Looking at our results by operating segment.
Sales for our Paint Stores Group in the first quarter 2013 increased 4% to $1.17 billion from $1.12 billion last year.
Comparable store sales that is sales by stores open more than 12 calendar months increased 3.2%.
The increase in sales for the segment was due entirely to higher paint sales volumes across most market segments.
Regionally in the first quarter our Southwest division led all divisions followed by Southeast division Midwest division and Eastern division.
Sales were positive in 3 of the 4 geographic divisions.
Segment profit for the group increased 15.1% to $129.7 million in the quarter as higher sales volumes and gross margin improvement more than offset higher SG&amp;A spending.
Segment operating margin increased to 11.1% of sales from 10% in the first quarter last year.
Turning to our Consumer Group.
Sales in the first quarter decreased 3.7% to $308.6 million due primarily to the previous disclosed elimination of some paint business with large retail customers that was partially offset by acquisitions.
Segment profit for the Consumer Group decreased $1.3 million to $54 million in the quarter from $55.3 million in first quarter last year.
Segment profit as a percent of external sales increased to 17.5% from 17.3% in the same period last year.
The improvement in operating margin was due primarily to continued tight expense control and operating efficiencies driven by volume growth in the Paint Stores Group.
For our Global Finishes Group sales in U.S.
dollars increased 0.8% to $486.8 million in the quarter due primarily to selling price increases and acquisitions mostly offset by unfavorable currency translation.
In the quarter acquisitions increased net sales by 1% and unfavorable currency translation rate changes decreased sales by the same amount.
First quarter segment profit increased 18.5% to $33.9 million due primarily to higher selling prices and improved operating efficiencies partially offset by unfavorable currency and acquisitions.
The combination of currency translation and acquisitions reduced segment profit by $1.8 million.
As a percent of sales segment profit increased to 7% from 5.9% in the same period last year.
For our Latin American Coatings Group.
The first quarter net sales decreased 2.1 -- 2.9% to $202.6 million due to unfavorable currency translations that was partially offset by selling price increases.
Currency translation rate changes decreased sales in U.S.
dollars by 6.6% in the quarter.
Stated in U.S.
dollars segment profit in the quarter increased to $20.8 million from $19.9 million last year.
Good expense control and higher selling prices more than offset a $1.7 million drag from unfavorable currency translation in the quarter.
As a percent of net sales segment operating profit was 10.3% in the quarter compared to 9.5% in the first quarter of 2012.
Turning briefly to the balance sheet.
Our total debt on March 31 2013 was $1.7 billion including short-term borrowings of $68.3 million.
Total debt on March 31 last year was $1.32 billion.
Our cash balance at the end of the quarter was $613.9 million compared to $25.5 million at the end of first quarter 2012.
In the first quarter of this year we spent $31.2 million on capital expenditures depreciation expense was $38.9 million and amortization expense was $7.7 million.
For the full year 2013 we anticipate capital expenditures for the year will be approximately $130 million to $150 million depreciation will be about $150 million and amortization will be about $30 million.
I'll conclude this review with a brief comment on the status of our lead litigation.
The Santa Clara case involving claims and public nuisance brought by 10 cities and counties in California against 5 dependent companies continues to move forward.
The judge presiding over the case has set the case for trial on June 24 2013.
That concludes our review of the results for first quarter 2013.
So I'll turn the call over to Chris Connor who will make some general comments and highlight our expectations for second quarter and full year.
Chris? Thank you Bob.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us today.
There's been a lot of volatility in the market in recent weeks around U.S.
housing and building materials and it seems that every new data point is being dissected for clues about the durability of this recovery.
While a few of the recent indicators appear to be heading in the wrong direction most notably the NAHB builder sentiment index as well as March single-family housing starts and residential permits the majority of the data still points to a robust and sustainable recovery.
I think our sales results in the first quarter support that conclusion.
Although our revenue growth was only 1.4% keep in mind the 15.1% sales increase in first quarter 2012 was an extremely difficult comparison.
Aside from the obvious difference in weather this year the calendar was also a challenge.
We lost the equivalent of 2 full business days in the quarter compared to last year and Easter week fell in March this year versus April last year.
Despite these expected headwinds our consolidated revenue and volume were both positive.
The purest read we have in the health of the domestic market comes from our Paint Stores Group.
With all the challenges we faced in Q1 our comp store sales grew more than 3%.
If you look at interior paint sales versus exterior you get an even better perspective on the difference between first quarter '12 and '13.
Sales of interior products this year increased almost 10% on top of strong double-digit growth last year while exterior sales were slightly better than flat.
A relative softness in our exterior business was not only a drag in revenue and volume compared to last year but also on mix because exterior paint commands a higher average price per gallon and higher gross margin.
This mix shift resulted in volume growth that was higher than revenue growth for the quarter.
Obviously our Paint Stores Group wasn't the only segment affected by the weather and calendar.
A loss of business days in the quarter reduced shipments across all segments of the company and winter weather significantly affected demand for protected and marine products as well as architectural.
We commented on our first quarter call last year that unseasonably warm weather doesn't create demand for paint it creates opportunity to paint.
The good news this year is that normal seasonal cold and wet weather doesn't destroy demand for paint it simply postpones it.
And we are encouraged by the demand trends we've seen so far in the second quarter.
This was our fourth consecutive quarter of year-over-year gross margin improvement clear evidence of the progress we've made in containing raw material costs and recovering the gross margin erosion we experienced in 2010 and 2011.
We expect this trend to continue although the rate of improvement should diminish as we go through the year.
Based on what we saw during the first quarter we've tempered our raw material cost outlook for the year.
Industry average pricing for most of the key raw materials used in paint and coatings continues to moderate as TiO2 pricing has remained stable and propylene a key feedstock for resins latex and solvents has come off its February highs.
We now believe average annual raw material cost for the industry will be flat with 2012 versus our January outlook of low single-digit inflation.
Our working capital which we measure as inventories plus receivables minus payables decreased as a percent of sales to 11.7% from 12.7% in the first quarter last year.
The reduction in working capital combined with the increase in net income in the quarter more than offset the $80 million cash contribution we made through our ESOP plan to satisfy our agreement with the Department of Labor.
Taking all this into account net operating cash in the quarter increased by almost $64 million compared to first quarter last year.
During the quarter we acquired 0.5 million shares of the company's stock for treasury at an average cost of $162.88 per share for a total investment of $81.4 million.
On March 31 we had remaining authorization to acquire 15.95 million shares.
Yesterday our Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share up from $0.39 last year.
Our Paint Stores Group added 9 net new stores during the quarter and our plan calls for full year store openings in the range of 70 to 80 net new locations.
Today our total store count in the U.S.
Canada and the Caribbean stands at 3 529 locations compared to 3 455 1 year ago.
This year-over-year increase in store locations along with the investments we made in store and territory staffing in the back half of last year resulted in a 40-basis-point increase in SG&amp;A as a percent of sales in the quarter.
As our revenue growth accelerates our SG&amp;A will decline as a percent of sales and we expect to finish the year below the 2012 level of SG&amp;A as a percent of sales.
We remain optimistic that U.S.
architectural paint market volumes primarily in the residential segments will strengthen as we get into the prime painting season.
Our outlook for second quarter 2013 is for consolidated net sales to increase in the range of 5% to 9% compared to last year second quarter.
With sales of that level we expect diluted net income per common share for the second quarter to be in the range of $2.50 to $2.60 per share compared to last year's record $2.17 per share.
For the full year 2013 we expect consolidated net sales to increase over 2012 by a mid-single-digit percentage.
With annual sales at that level we are reaffirming our expectation for full year diluted net income per common share to be in the range of $7.45 and $7.55 per share compared to last year.
Finally I'd like to comment briefly on our progress on the Comex acquisition.
We completed the regulatory review process in 2 of 3 countries.
Although we remain confident that this transaction will close it is impossible to predict the timing at this point.
We remain hopeful that it'll be sometime in the second quarter.
As you would expect we are making productive use of this interim period to prepare our company for a seamless integration and a fast start once the transaction is complete.
Until that time I'm sure you respect the fact that we cannot disclose information about Comex operations financial performance or additional details of the transaction.
Again thanks to all of you for joining us this morning.
And now we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Chris the interior versus exterior paint demand differential that you pointed out do you think the exterior's performance was a function of the tough comp from a year ago? Or is it just all the more unfavorable weather in March across the country? Well the answer is yes to both of those.
I mean that was the whole point.
And we saw reasonable seasonal exterior sales gains in our Southern market but it was the Northern markets that were painting outside last year that really saw a decline in exterior gallons.
Take those 2 together we delivered a flat exterior performance for the Stores Group.
Research Division</strong> And then can you just kind of parse out what you're seeing residential versus commercial as best as you can tell? Yes I think as we've been commenting for some time it is the residential portions of this architectural market that are rebounding both in the new construction as well as in the repaint.
Commercial tends to lag that.
We've begun to see some lift in the commercial repaint as occupancy rates improve not so much a lift yet in the new construction portion of that business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one final one on Global Finishes.
For the second quarter last year it was a very very strong performance from a margin perspective seems like a tough comp.
Do you think margins will be up in Global Finishes year-over-year during the second quarter of '13? Yes I think when -- we were pretty happy with the operating margins in Global Finishes.
We've done some things to structurally help that business.
And we don't give guidance by segment.
But we were not surprised that Global Finishes operating margin improved this quarter.
Our next question is from the line of Aram Rubinson with Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> A couple questions.
One just housekeeping if you can help us with the gross profit dollar growth you sometimes share with us by segment would be great.
Sure.
I've got it right here.
The Stores Group the incremental gross profit dollars were $37 663 000; the Consumer incremental $2 891 000; and the Global Finishes Group $13 734 000.
And then LACG was negative.
It was dilutive $793 000.
Research Division</strong> One or 2 other quick things if I could.
The 2-year volume trends underlying seem to be quite strong.
If you did a 3 against what we had calculated as a 13 would put kind of the 2-year volume up near 16 and we had it about 8.9 in last quarter and 4 the quarter before that.
Is that kind of a proper gauge of underlying momentum in the business? I think you're directionally correct Aram.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last thing is on SG&amp;A.
Last year SG&amp;A as a percent of sales by quarter you did 35.5% in the first quarter and a 31.5% in the second quarter.
You did about 20% more sales in the second quarter than the first.
So my question is this if your volumes in Q1 were to grow by 20% over 2-year period of time why wouldn't their SG&amp;A ultimately get to where your Q2 SG&amp;A rate is today? Because what ends up happening is is that our SG&amp;A rate is a step function.
And so to get that 20% sales volume that you speak of we'll probably have more stores.
We'll probably have more reps.
We'll have more SG&amp;A that will flatline itself against the quarters.
If that occurs you're going to see to get that 20% increase in the first quarter.
Actually you also get a second quarter pop also.
So that sales curve really -- when -- that's why a lot of times when people ask "What's your fixed versus variable?" We think the fixed is a lot higher because store manager assistant manager all those things are fixed and that sales curve to get that 20%.
Now if you're saying structurally we were able to get the 20% more without any additions in stores reps or other things then you would see it drive down yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes.
Because I noticed you're still running about a little less than 70%.
Let's say the SG&amp;A growth divided by revenue growth is maybe a good function too.
Are you still trying to be in that kind of 55% 57% kind of range? Yes.
Yes.
Our next question is from the line of Bob Koort of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Could you help decompose the same-store sales into price volume components? Yes that's a pretty easy answer Bob.
There's absolutely no price in the comp store performance this year.
Research Division</strong> And then what's your expectation I think Chris you mentioned that none of the seasonal patterns or weather patterns alter underlying demand.
So would you expect that in the Midwest and East you're going to see a much better comp versus sort of the Southwest and Southeast in the second quarter? Yes absolutely.
And I think that's implied in our guidance for the quarter's revenue being up 5% to 9%.
As you'd expect our stores numbers will outpace that and that will be a result of the Northern division also starting to participate in the same kind of robust rebound we're seeing in these residential markets across the whole country.
Research Division</strong> Then my last one if I could quickly on raw materials.
Can you give us a sense for what the residence time is between on the outside us seeing a propylene price move up or down and when it might reveal itself on a cost of goods line? And then secondly you seem a little bit more -- less aggressive about what's happening in TiO2 prices than maybe we've seen in the market.
Is there some reason you wouldn't be fully benefiting from the sell-off in those prices? Bob this is Bob.
Let me take the second part of the question first.
TiO2 thus far this year -- I mean it certainly came down in the back half last year.
But thus far this year it's been relatively stable.
And you know there are at least 3 producers in the market right now with price increase announcements.
So we mentioned that there was a fair amount of volatility or that there was a fair amount of stability in TiO2 but we do not necessarily believe that it goes down in the back half from here.
Time will tell.
On propylene the rule of thumb that we've been using is that it takes about 90 days for a moving propylene to get fully into the raw material basket much faster on the solvents side of the business than on the resins and packaging side.
So 90 days I think is a pretty good rule of thumb to see that -- the moving propylene fully priced into the raw material basket.
Research Division</strong> And is it possible on quick spikes that you could actually miss that or no? What we saw in the first quarter? We'll see it on solvents.
Whether a quick spike up and back down gets into the acrylic chain or into plastic packaging...
Maybe not.
Maybe not.
Our next question is from the line of P.J.
Juvekar of Citi.
Research Division</strong> The big boxes seem to want a piece of the contractor business.
I think one of your competitor is starting a new program at Lowe's.
Historically these big boxes haven't had much success with contractors.
So how do you see that playing out this time? Well P.J.
I think we've long said that we have tremendous respect for these competitors.
And they have compelling product lines and offerings and are continuing to see what we see in the market which is that the shift towards a professional painting contractor is the primary purchase of architectural paint.
I think we've been competing with these folks for over 27 years now recognizing these same demographic trends.
And the data results that we've shared with you and the entire investment community would indicate that painting contractors continue to remain remarkably loyal to the dedicated paint store channel.
So it's incumbent upon us that are in that space to continue to enhance the product offering the service the reasons that have kept them loyal there.
And we'll take on this next challenge as we have all the other ones over the past 20 years.
Research Division</strong> And I think you've gained share with homebuilders during the downturn.
So as the new residential construction picks up should we expect better volume growth from you compared to the industry? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Can you just give us what kind of share did you gain during the downturn? Yes I think we've talked about just kind of the top 25 U.S.
homeowners and what our relative position has been there as opposed to any strict share number.
And as the industry went into their downturn a lot of these large builders consolidated purchasing activities from regional offices into a consolidated office.
And Sherwin was uniquely in a position with a national footprint to be able to service these folks regardless of what part of the geography they're operating in.
So as a result we're proud to comment that well north of 20 the top 25 builders now are good Sherwin's customers and quite a number of them are exclusive with us.
So as they come back up that's a much stronger position than we were in the last time we went through one of these housing rebounds.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I just have a quick clarification question maybe for Sean.
In this Consumer Group segment you talk about loss of large retail customer.
You've talked about Walmart business in the past that you lost.
Is that the same continuing issue here? Yes.
We continue to have a step-down function into the fourth quarter.
It's affected us negatively.
And again in the first quarter it affected us negatively.
Research Division</strong> But wasn't the initial Walmart business lost a couple of years ago and that should have anniversaried by now? Yes.
But as we -- it was not a complete severing.
What it was was a discussion and a movement from DSCs [ph].
If you remember we had the majority there was other -- 2 other paint companies in there.
Those other 2 they did go cold turkey on those but on us it was a lock.
And now they have the majority.
And we've got another step function that affected us in the fourth quarter for this year.
Yes.
Specifically P.J.
it's in the private label segment.
So you're correct that the Glidden brand immediately replaced our brand.
There's been this private label piece that's been a little less visible and is stepping down exactly Sean just took you through.
Our next question is from the line of Chris Nocella of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just want to circle back on your comment that you're encouraged by the demand trends in the second quarter.
Is it to say your order books are strong for some of the bigger projects? Or is it a little more broad-based than that? Yes it's more broad-based than that.
And we don't typically have an order book per se.
It's more the anecdotal evidence of the painting contractors that are in our stores.
We get some future look at the types of products they're buying that are non-paint.
So for example we've always talked about spray equipment sales as being a good leading indicator of the confidence of painting contractors as they're heading into the paint season.
Here again this year on top of pretty robust numbers last year our spray equipment sales are doing terrific.
And we just are cognizant that these men and women have a lot of work lined up.
They're hiring painters they've got a full load ahead of them and a lot of confidence that this is going to be another repeat performance for a solid residential repaint year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on Comex I appreciate the deal hasn't closed and you don't have the full financials yet.
But can you just remind us of the accretion potential that you expect and the trajectory to get there? Sure.
What we said is we feel that the first 12 months will be accretive slightly accretive because of the closing costs the inventory write-up and some of the other GAAP requirements.
And -- but then after that we believe that if we close here in a relatively short period of time we're looking at $1 accretion the first full year we own it.
Our next question is from the line of Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Chris question on gross margin potential.
I mean you started off the year with some pretty strong gross margins even though your exterior mix went against you.
So do you think you can be on track to equal that 46% gross margin peak you had back in '09? I think we've been talking about continuing to move towards that.
I don't think we're getting guidance that we're going to be all the way back of north of 46%.
180 basis points improvement we're making right now in this quarter will start to moderate as we did start to have some margin recovery in the back half of last year as well too.
So that might be a little high but we'll be moving towards that number.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a question on industry volumes.
I mean the DOC doesn't put their series out anymore but you've talked about maybe getting to normalized of 700-million- to 750-million-gallon market number in the U.S.
Where did we end last year? And what kind of market growth are you looking for this year? Don this is Bob.
The American Coatings Association put out an estimate of volumes for full year 2012 that was in the mid-3% range.
Our estimate was closer to 3% flat.
So somewhere in that range feels right.
That would have put us in the 630-million- to 640-million-gallon range.
So still probably incremental 100 million gallons to come back to the market over some recovery time frame.
Our next question is from the line of Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Chris you affirmed the guidance range for the year of $7.45 to $7.55.
And I'm wondering if your embedded assumptions therein for existing home sales and housing starts are any different today relative to what they would have been exiting the fourth quarter.
No I don't think we've really changed that assumption or impact on our guidance.
As we commented in my opening comments about kind of the numbers were kind of jumping all over the place I think there's enough other weight in this business primarily in the maintenance of these projects that are really the key driver for us.
So we're still confident that we've got the right market dynamics to deliver the numbers that we're projecting.
The other thing Kevin if you look at housing starts over the course of 2012 they ramped up over the year so that the exit rate from that year was a pretty good indicator of where we were going to be at least at the start of the year in 2013.
So we weren't operating blind.
And Kevin this is Sean.
Many -- for the last few years many years we've never really changed guidance for the full year after the first quarter.
Goes back to the other question you look at the sales curve I think that even last year up for the first quarter -- because it was so dramatic we changed it slightly.
But when you really take a look at it we usually wait until after the second quarter which is a large quarter for us.
Research Division</strong> So Sean to follow up it sounds like your raw material forecast has improved relative to what it would have been.
Is it the case that you're being relatively conservative in keeping the range the same since it is early in the year? Or rather is it the case that there's some offsets that you're cognizant of that would equilibrate it back to flat? Yes I think -- I wouldn't use the word conservative.
I think I mean you have to -- there's a lot of moving pieces in these forecasts and there's a lot of ongoing volatility on the pricing of many key raw material input.
So again we'll have better visibility on the year for raw materials as well as a lot of the other factors after the second quarter.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final question if I may just to drill down a little bit more on your exterior coatings experience.
If we were to lump together the Southwest and the Southeast what would those exterior volumes look like relative to the Midwest and the East? Just trying to get a sense for what the magnitude of the variances there within the company if there's anything you can share.
I would comment that we were down double digit in the Northern markets and the Southern markets were a more normalized sales growth.
Our next question is from Nils Wallin of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just curious on the loss of the business at Walmart.
When will this anniversary? Well I think that again as in all of our  Walmart's a great customer.
We're in there.
We're showing them different products.
We hope it never -- hope it ends very soon.
But I would tell you that with this change each -- this year I think that the last time you'll see the effect of the Walmart will be at the end of the third quarter.
It did affect us in the fourth quarter.
So this change in the distribution centers from us to the other supplier will anniversary in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> And by losing this business is there actually a benefit on the mix at all? I mean is this a low-margin business? Are you -- I mean you probably don't want to lose the volume but maybe on a positive side it may not be the best in terms of margin.
You know what when you look at the Consumer Group margin it did help the gross margin percent.
It definitely did not help the gross margin dollars.
And if we had a choice we'd rather have the dollars.
But -- and it was good business.
I mean the -- you had another supplier who wanted it because of the price of the SG&amp;A.
And the operating margin was a nice business for us.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just finally on Global Finishes.
It looks like over -- when you layer in the drag from ForEx that the obviously margin improvement year-on-year has been quite strong.
And you point to operating efficiencies.
Is there -- can you drill down a little bit more? Is there some capacity rationalization? What's driving this improvement so much on the operating efficiency side? Yes we talked last year Nils about the fact that after a fairly robust acquisition schedule over the past couple of years that we were in the phase of really rationalizing justifying the manufacturing distribution portion of that particularly in Europe.
And so there was some rightsizing of operations that we needed to address.
So that's primarily behind us as we head into this calendar year.
We've also commented a little bit about the pricing discipline that's been part of the company's operating mantra in North America that we needed to get implemented in Europe.
And we've seen that take place as well too.
So most of it's come from our European operations.
We still have the opportunities ahead of us and some final little cleanups both in Asia Pacific as well as Europe.
But pleased to see that this group is really on the right track.
We've long said that we believe we can get this business into a double-digit return on sales operating margin performance and they're making good strides toward that.
Our next question is coming from the line of Matt McGinley of ISI.
Research Division</strong> On your guidance you imply a pretty healthy step-up on the margin rates in the second quarter.
It almost looks like it could be 2006- or 2007-type levels.
Would you expect to continue to build that margin from a gross margin standpoint? Or would you leverage SG&amp;A? And given the investment that you're making in the stores what level of sales today do you think you need to leverage SG&amp;A? I think that for the second quarter where we are in the step function of the SG&amp;A I think you're right about the guidance.
I think there's got to be efficiencies.
And you can see the SG&amp;A as a percent of sales show improvement.
And I think going back to Chris' remarks by the end of the year we believe that SG&amp;A we expect it to be lower as a percent of sales.
So I think that tells you being up 4/10 in the first quarter I think we have to have improvement in each of the following 3.
Gross margin same thing.
Echoing Chris' remarks we felt that gross margin will show improvement.
So I think we're going to see it in both.
So I think we're at volumes that we're going to see efficiency.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I have one on Mexico as a market.
Can you tell us a little bit about how the trends are in your stores in Mexico? Is that a better market generally than maybe the rest of Latin America or the U.S.? And from a timing standpoint with this Comex deal is there a certain date that if you can't close it by it would not be accretive where the math wouldn't work out on a current year basis? Matt this is Bob.
Let me handle the first half of that question and that is just the overall market environment in Mexico.
Mexico had a rough year in 2012 due to some foreclosure activity but long term it is going to be a very attractive market.
The rate of household formation per capita is much higher than that of the U.S.
It's a young market with more than 40% of the population under the age of 34.
And per capita income and GDP is growing.
So from a construction and maintenance standpoint Mexico is going to be a very attractive market.
And our business in Mexico has been performing well.
Right.
And as we speak of Comex and our expectations [indiscernible] that's why we continue to use the word 12 months not in the current year.
We believe that it'll be slightly accretive in the first 12 months and -- but you're right the first quarter is going to be dilutive.
And as -- the later it goes the less chance it'll be accretive from a calendar year 2013 because of the closing.
And you're right there is a date that we cross that it won't be there.
So -- but instead of sharing that date we'd rather wait until we can close so we can give you a lot more details.
Our next question is from the line of Ivan Marcuse of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Most of them have been answered.
Just real quick on the Brazil market your volumes are flat in Latin America.
Have you seen -- there's an expectation that you're going to have the Olympics World Cup et cetera and that you should see construction pick up.
Have you seen any signs of that? And what's sort of your outlook for that business going forward? Yes we're painting some stadiums in Brazil as we speak.
So there's definitely work that's happening.
I think Brazil by their own admission would tell you that they're behind on their schedule of their construction projects.
So there should be some acceleration as we get closer to the 2014 dates.
The slowdown and softness in the Brazilian economy is much broader than just preparing for these games.
So housing has been off a little bit the construction has been off a little bit.
I don't think that this administration has been as productive for the country's GDP as the previous one.
And I know it was a concern of theirs.
But here again as Bob has commented on the long-term prospects for Mexico we remain bullish on the long-term prospects for Brazil as well and are continuing to strengthen our operations down there.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then last question.
I know this is small but is there -- do you have any business in Argentina? And is that impacting that segment at all? Yes we do have business in Argentina.
We've been in the country for over 80 years.
Argentina has been a middle of the road performer in our Latin American operations and I think they're doing fine.
Our next question is from the line of Chuck Cerankosky of Northcoast Research.
If you start taking a look at the rest of the year Chris how would you describe the need or lack thereof for pricing in the Paint Stores Group in the U.S.? Yes I think to our comments about flat raw materials for the remainder of the year that would typically be the environment that we hold pricing in.
We've made no indications of our intention to the contrary.
As you know Chuck our policy is always to let our customers know first.
And shortly thereafter we openly transcribe with the investment community.
This date we've got nothing to share with you.
All right.
With regard to industrial coatings markets how would you describe those in the first quarter and the outlook for the rest of the year? Yes I think from the protective coatings which -- are you talking about protective or more OEM? More protective but OEM I would lump in with that question as well.
Okay so I think we commented on protective coatings as a soft quarter for us and most of that is related to bridge and highway painting activities that were delayed due to weather this year compared to last year.
But as we commented on the exterior gallons struggling that impacted this business segment as well.
But the underlying requirement demand for these products and the maintenance environments which really can't be delayed that looks pretty good to us.
We expect that business to rebound and continue on through the year.
And the OEM product finishing segments which are embedded in the Global Finishes Group particularly in North America continue to do nicely.
A little softness in the European market demand driven by the general softness in that part of the world.
But again overall a pretty good story for us this year.
Our next question is from the line of Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Your administrative costs fell about $4 million or $5 million year-over-year in the quarter and that was in spite of your interest costs for the quarter going up about $5 million.
So your net administrative costs or your pure administrative costs look like they fell about $10 million.
Why did -- in the quarter.
Why did they do that? And what's your outlook for that line for the year? Jeff as you know when you look at that administrative we've had -- over the last 2 to 3 years we've had some major growth in that area.
And we continue to talk about some of the projects IT projects other things that we were working on and investing in.
And we see that -- we're still working on a few of those projects but we're trying to complete some of these and look for some efficiencies.
You're also right when you look at the interest I think that the core without Comex because of the $1 billion that we did borrow at around 2 -- a little over 2%.
It's going to cost us to have interest rates -- interest expense of $20 million $5 million a quarter.
I think that the first quarter there was a few things that were -- we started to see with this.
But I think we're still going to see some improvement without interest but -- throughout the year but without the Comex acquisition occurring.
But it won't be as dramatic as it was in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly everybody has different ideas about where paint raw materials will be.
Yours are that they'll be flat for the year and I guess mine are that they'll be lower for the year.
If it turns out that I'm right that is that raw materials are lower for the industry in general do you think average paint prices in the consumer business will decrease or in the contractor business or that the contractor market generally will decrease? Or do you think that they would hold flat even in a declining raw material environment? Well Jeff we hope you're right.
And I would tell you that in past cycles like this we've commented that we will see overall lower pricing particularly on bid business where large projects -- when contractors are out bidding for that they'll be giving competitive quotes and we'll see folks go for gallon and market share enhancements.
So as we have in past cycles we would expect to see lower year-over-year pricing quoted on that type.
And as a reminder we think that represents about 20% of a typical demand of architectural products.
The vast majority of our products which we would call our typical shop account pricing we've had a track record of being able to hang onto that pricing in that environment.
So if that remains flat and the 20% dropped a little bit you might see a little bit year-over-year deflationary pricing.
On the consumer side of that I don't know that we have as much insight into that or as much exposure to that frankly and have much beyond the comment on your analysis.
Our next question is from the line of John Roberts of UBS.
Could you update us a little bit on some of your initiatives like Emerald? And you've now lapped yourself on HGTV.
How are some of those programs going? Yes we've been thrilled with both of those introductions John.
Thanks for asking.
Emerald at the very high end of our architectural product line both on interior and exterior not that it would ever be the primary mover of products but it does set the bar and we kind of get that mix shift up the chain as we talked about it in years past.
So meeting company's expectations for gallon growth.
And I would say that HGTV probably is doing even a little better than that.
We've commented I think not so much in this call but past several calls that our DIY performance inside that stores group has been outperforming the industry.
We believe we've been gaining share slightly from a low base.
And HGTV clearly is helping the company skew to a lower age customer group.
We can see that in our demographics through our POS information we get.
And all that just portends to a better future.
We're introducing customers to the advantages of shopping in the specialty paint store earlier in the paint-buying career and they tend to be loyal to that cycle.
So HGTV has been a big win for the company.
And then in your regional breakdown that you had Bob the Eastern region was mostly impacted by weather change.
I assume like exterior was down a lot there.
Was interior up in the Eastern region even though the total region was down? No John I don't know the answer to that.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Dan of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First of all just so we're all using the right number can you tell us what interest expense you have for the full quarter that's in your guidance? Well I won't share the guidance but I think our interest expense and we have it on the P&amp;L it's right here on the  I'll tell you right  I've got it here.
Our interest expense was $15 311 000.
Last year it was $10 337 000.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's a good run rate for the second quarter as well? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay fine.
And my second question is on your -- it seemed like the cash drag in the quarter from building working capital in advance of the painting season is much less this quarter than it has been historically in prior years.
Is that just reflective of lower raw material costs or more efficiency? Or what's explaining that? Or was it just something that's going to leak into the second quarter this year? Well I think that 2 years ago we come in and then we built inventory in the first quarter 2011 much higher than we had in the past.
And it dealt with raw material availability and so forth.
In '12 we felt a little less pressure as far as availability and we allowed -- we had a more normal build.
And this year I would say we've adjusted and we feel pretty good about the efficiencies in our supply chain.
And we feel pretty good.
I don't think -- I think this is probably going to be more of the normal curve going forward.
Our next question is coming from the line of Eric Bosshard of Cleveland Research.
Obviously with the weather it's hard to sift through the volumes in 1Q.
But as you think about the full year '13 relative to '12 in terms of the architectural growth you talked what the government and your sense of growth was last year.
But I'm interested as your customers what your sense is over the growth rate of '13 relative to '12 for the industry and then your relative market share performance in '13 relative to '12.
Well I would say Eric that the industry growth rate as we commented historically should run in that 1% to 2% from architectural.
And because we're below age here we said that double that is a reasonable number to start with.
So let's assume that the industry is going to have gallon growth in the 3% to 4% range and we've been comfortable saying that stores business can run in a 1.5x that pace so our expectation would be that our gallons this year are going to be north of 5%.
As you look at the first call it 4 months of the year what are the plusses and minuses relative to that? What do you see that gives you sort of positive thinking about that and where you have concerns in regards to getting to that level of growth in 2013? We don't have any concerns about getting to that gallons number in 2013 right now.
Our next question is from the line of John McNulty of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> With regard to the SG&amp;A jump that we saw year-over-year which looked like it was about $20 million or so how much of any of that is tied to preparing for Comex that might not be something that recurs going forward once you've actually closed on the acquisition? Yes very small less than $2.5 million really in the preparation of Comex.
One of -- you're right it was up around 21%.
So less than -- probably around 10% of the growth was due to Comex.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if we think about getting back to normal paint volumes in the industry in that kind of 700 million to 750 million gallons area so that's about a 15% to 20% increase in the volumes from here regardless of the time frame but assuming we get there how should we think about what your SG&amp;A growth to get to that -- or to manage through that kind of level? I think -- and again used to be that we used to -- you would see the growth rate.
And you can go back to 2002 2007 see what it grew back in that time frame.
And we used to have a dynamic.
And I'm thinking that our SG&amp;A used to grow at around 45% to 55% of sales increase.
Research Division</strong> Volumes or sales like we were just kind of pulling price out of that? Sales.
Sales.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last question.
On your CapEx guidance of $130 million to $150 million does any of that include the potential for at least some of the early changes in the Comex stores if -- assuming that you do any of them this year? No.
We've kept our guidance -- all our guidance and reporting and so forth Comex-free so that when we do close in a lot of these numbers.
And that's one of the numbers that will increase.
Our next question is from the line of Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> I'll be quick.
Just on the same-store sales number that you provided us Chris you mentioned the days issue year-over-year.
Is that number adjusted 4 days when you guys reported to us? No that's actual.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So you're talking about a couple of points higher if it were? Yes.
This 3% -- a little over 3% comp store performance in the face of fewer days.
LLC</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then when the Comex deal does close how do you guys expect to communicate some of the numbers to us as far as -- and I guess aside from just updating guidance is there a way that you're thinking about -- kind of talking about the business or the level of information that you expect to provide on the business to us? Well clearly on the quarter call immediately following the transaction we'll be taking you through a great detail.
Sean do you want to add some color? We had planned and if we would have closed before the financial community presentation it would have been fantastic.
We would have taken you through a few more things.
There are different requirements when we have to show some of our numbers with the history.
And we will -- at that time you'll see 2012 if we owned it since January 1 2012 and you'll see the quarters as well as that year.
So -- and then on an ongoing basis I'm sure that we'll have some type of -- you'll see our sales with and without the acquisition and we'll show you the EPS effect of that also.
Our next question is from the line of Dmitry Silversteyn of Longbow.
First of all on the consumer part of the business can you give us a little bit more detail between the acquisition component and the FX component -- or I'm sorry the price mix component? Yes I'm sorry...
In consumer Dmitry? Yes.
In consumer you talked about acquisitions having an impact and then you talked about volumes being down.
So I'm just trying to figure out if you have any price mix movement.
Or was it flat like it was for the Paint Store Group? I would tell you that we reported that division down 3.7%.
Without the acquisition we would have been down 8.6%.
But I would tell you -- on pricing I would tell you that you look at that that it was pretty consistent with stores.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Secondly in your global business that it's now becoming a more profitable part of the operation and obviously that's probably where the most profit improvement in terms of kind of the magnitude in margin improvement opportunity that you have left.
Can you talk about the geographic mix of that business right now between Europe Asia and the Americas? And you talked about the continuing restructuring and some cost actions that you can take in Europe.
So we're just -- I'm just trying to understand how relatively sized these businesses are.
Yes.
The United States North American component of that segment still exceeds more than 50% of the volume that we generate.
Europe would be the second-largest continent of scale.
And then Asia Pacific would be the third.
And I would say that you kind of step down by half and half again as you go through that analysis.
Okay.
So something like 30% and 15% or something like 30% and 20% whatever it works out to be? Correct.
You're close.
Okay.
Right.
And then finally you talked about still having a couple of opportunities left to repurchase shares as far as shares outstanding.
What's sort of your outlook on the pace of this share repurchase? You talked about dollar cost averaging and being fairly consistent but your share count has gone up sequentially versus the fourth quarter.
So is there an incentive to bring it back down to below 2012 levels? When you look at the absolute number our share count is down.
But as the selling -- as the price of our stock continues to go up we have a dilutive effect on stock options.
So over the course of the year we're going to eliminate that.
But we sort of got caught on the price of the stock and so forth.
We really don't have -- so I think on a year-to-year basis you'll see stock options not be dilutive.
But I just think that the way the stock price went in the first quarter it caught us after we were basically in a blackout.
And -- but I will tell you in general our stock buyback went to the Comex acquisition it's going to really be [ph] lower than it has been in the last decade on an annualized basis but it will be enough to make sure that stock options are not dilutive.
Our next question is from the line of [indiscernible].
I just had a quick question on the India market where you've recently [indiscernible] business to the locals there.
You showed [indiscernible] transaction and [indiscernible] behind that strategy in India.
That's one of the emerging markets.
Yes I think we've commented that the company's strategy going forward is really to be focused on developing the architectural business in the Americas and supporting our industrial coatings businesses around the world.
India was a small architectural business that we tiptoed into the country a number of years ago.
We made some assumptions about the country's readiness for the type of quality architectural products that we manufacture.
Those proved not to be accurate.
So after a very short and a very small investment we decided it was best to pull out and wait for a better day.
And we executed a transaction with the Berger Paints company and we're out of India at this point in time.
Our final question is from the line of Richard O'Reilly with Revere Associates.
I might ask you to repeat yourself on something.
But I want to go back to the 2-year trend.
And I'm looking at the same stores up 3% versus 20%.
That would imply some low double-digit growth rate something greater than what you would think the market would have supported.
What do you think your normal same-store growth should have been or will be if you can exclude all the noise that might be in there? Yes.
When we talked Richard over a longer cycle of being able to provide guidance by these segments we said that the Paint Store Group should be a relatively high single-digit revenue performer over the long cycle.
And we build that by talking about some pricing some new store addition and then comp store performance which tends to run kind of in the mid-single digits 4% 5% range.
And we build the rest of that to get to the higher percent.
So over a long cycle when an industry's growing at 1% to 2% we think this comp store business can grow at a 4% to 5% pace.
So clearly in this environment when we're having a rebound we would expect to outperform that.
Two things are happening here not only are the gallons coming back as we've talked about on this call already but the mix shift is going back towards the painting contractor where it had been drifting back towards the DIY primarily as the new construction markets come back onboard that tend to skew entirely to painting contractors.
And that's a good trend for this comp store number as well.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the floor back to Bob Wells for closing comments.
Thanks Robert.
I'd just like to close by reminding everyone that our annual financial community presentation is scheduled for Thursday May 23 at our headquarters in Cleveland.
The program as usual will consist of our customary morning presentation with questions and answers followed by a reception and lunch.
And regardless of the timing of the close of the Comex transaction we intend to discuss more detail about the strategic fit of this acquisition more about what the combined organization may look like and our previous experience integrating acquisitions of this type.
In addition we've got lots of other worthwhile information to share so please join us.
If you have not signed up or would like to attend there's still time.
Send me an email at rjwells@sherwin.com and I will reply with a link to our registration site.
Thanks again for joining us this morning and thanks for your continued interest in Sherwin-Williams.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining the Sherwin-Williams Company's Review of the Second Quarter 2013 Financial Results and Expectations for the Third Quarter and Full Year.
With us on today's call are Chris Connor Chairman and CEO; Sean Hennessy Senior Vice President Finance and CFO; Al Mistysyn Vice President Corporate Controller; and Bob Wells Senior Vice President Corporate Communications.
This conference call is being webcast simultaneously in listen-only mode via Vcall via the Internet at www.sherwin.com.
An archived replay of this webcast will be available at www.sherwin.com beginning approximately 2 hours after this conference call concludes and will be available until Wednesday August 8 2013 at 5:00 p.m.
Eastern time.
This conference call will include certain forward-looking statements as defined under U.S.
federal securities laws with respect to sales earnings and other matters.
Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statement is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A full declaration regarding forward-looking statements is provided in the company's earnings release transmitted earlier this morning.
I will now turn the call over to Chris Connor for some opening comments.
Thanks Jesse.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us today.
Last night the Federal Competition Commission in Mexico voted 3 to 2 to withhold approval of our acquisition of Comex announced on November 12 2012.
At this time we are still reviewing the rationale for the commission's decision and will respond to those specific concerns in the days ahead.
We have several paths forward in our efforts to secure approval for this transaction including an internal appeal to the Competition Commission and we are aggressively pursuing these options as we speak.
Our legal representatives in Mexico are attempting to meet with key commissioners yet today.
You may recall that on June 24 we announced an extension of the original purchase agreement out to the end of August.
Last evening and again this morning I spoke with Marcos Achar CEO of Comex and he confirmed their equal resolve to pursue all avenues available to secure confirmation of this transaction.
We are clearly disappointed by this decision but remain resolute in our determination to address their objectives and proceed with the transaction.
Obviously we'll be happy to answer your questions on this topic to the best of our ability after the review of our second quarter results.
Let me turn the call over now to Bob to walk you through our results for the second quarter and then I'll be back with concluding comments.
Bob? Thanks Chris.
Summarizing overall company performance for second quarter 2013 versus second quarter 2012.
Consolidated net sales increased $140.9 million or 5.5% to $2.71 billion due primarily to higher paint sales volumes in our Paint Stores Group.
Acquisitions added 0.7% to net sales in the quarter and unfavorable currency translation rate changes decreased consolidated net sales by 3/10 of 1% percent.
Consolidated gross profit dollars increased $83 million over second quarter last year to $1.23 billion.
Gross margin increased 80 basis points to 45.5% of sales from 44.7% in the second quarter last year.
Selling general and administrative expenses for the quarter increased 3.3% to $837.1 million.
As a percent of sales SG&amp;A decreased to 30.8% in the second quarter this year from 31.5% last year.
Interest expense for the quarter was $15.1 million an increase of $4.8 million compared to second quarter last year.
Other general expense net decreased $2.6 million year-over-year due primarily to a reduction in provisions for environmental expense.
Consolidated profit before taxes in the quarter increased $53.1 million or 16.2% to $380.9 million.
Our effective tax rate in the second quarter this year was 32.5% compared to 30.5% in the second quarter of 2012.
For full year 2013 we expect our effective tax rate to be in the low 30% range compared to last year's rate of 30.4%.
Consolidated net income increased $29.5 million or 12.9% to $257.3 million.
Net income as a percent of sales was 9.5% compared to 8.9% in the second quarter last year.
Diluted net income per common share for the quarter increased 13.4% to $2.46 per share from $2.17 per share in 2012.
Looking at our results by operating segment.
Paint Stores Group sales in the second quarter '13 increased 8% to $1.61 billion.
Comparable store sales that is sales by stores open more than 12 calendar months increased 7%.
Regionally in the second quarter our Southeastern division led all divisions followed by Southwestern division Eastern division and Midwestern division.
Paint Stores Group segment profit for the quarter increased $66 million or 24.7% to $333 million from $267 million in the second quarter last year.
Segment margin in the quarter increased to 20.7% from 17.9% last year.
Turning to our Consumer Group.
Sales in the second quarter decreased 1% to $393.7 million from $397.7 million last year.
Acquisitions increased Consumer segment sales 3.2% in the quarter.
Segment profit for the Consumer Group decreased $1.7 million or 2.1% to $79 million in the quarter.
Segment profit as a percent of external sales decreased to 20.1% from 20.3% in the same period last year.
For our Global Finishes Group second quarter sales in U.S.
dollars increased 3% to $513.5 million.
Acquisitions increased net sales in U.S.
dollars by approximately 1.1% while unfavorable currency translations had minimal impact on sales in the quarter compared to last year.
Segment profit in U.S.
dollars increased 13.4% in the quarter to $54.5 million from $48 million last year.
Acquisitions had no significant effect on segment profits in the quarter while unfavorable currency translation rate changes reduced segment profit $2.4 million.
As a percent to net sales Global Finishes Group segment profit was 10.6% in the quarter compared to 9.6% last year.
For our Latin America Coatings Group second quarter net sales in U.S.
dollars increased 6.3% to $199 million.
Unfavorable currency translation rate changes decreased net sales by 2.8% in the quarter.
Stated in U.S.
dollars segment profit in the second quarter decreased to $900 000 from $9.3 million in the same period last year due primarily to an $11.8 million charge to cost of goods related to an import duly assessment by the Brazilian government for the years 2006 through 2008.
This charge was partially offset by selling price increases and higher paint sales volumes.
Currency translation rate changes had minimal impact on segment profits in the quarter.
As a percent of net sales segment operating profit was 4/10 of 1% in the quarter compared to 5% in the second quarter 2012.
Turning briefly to our balance sheet.
Our total debt on June 30 2013 was $1.68 billion including short-term borrowings of $50.7 million.
Total debt on June 30 last year was $1.24 billion.
Our cash balance at the end of the quarter was $741.1 million compared to $46.6 million at the end of second quarter 2012.
Through the first 6 months of 2013 we spent $72.1 million on capital expenditures.
Depreciation expense was $78.3 million and amortization expense was $14.1 million.
For full year 2013 we anticipate capital expenditures for the year will be approximately $130 million to $150 million depreciation will be about $150 million and amortization will be approximately $30 million.
I'll conclude my remarks on the quarter with a brief update on the status of our lead pigment litigation.
Trial began on Monday July 15 in the Santa Clara County case involving public nuisance claims brought by 10 cities and counties in California against 5 defendant companies.
The judge presiding over the case has limited oral arguments by each side to 40 hours including live testimony and cross-examination which should be concluded before Labor Day.
At the conclusion of the trial the verdict will be determined by the presiding judge.
There is no jury.
At this point we have no indication or sense of timing on a decision.
That concludes our review of the results for second quarter 2013.
So I'll turn the call back over to Chris who will make some general comments and highlight our expectations for third quarter and full year.
Chris? Thanks Bob.
We often say that our visibility with respect to end market conditions and input cost trends improved significantly in the second quarter and this year was no exception.
This improving visibility over the past few months has revealed a mixed bag of stable to declining raw material costs continued strength in the domestic residential market stagnant nonresidential and industrial activity all against a backdrop of continued global economic malaise.
We've felt the effects both positive and negative of these disparate market conditions across different geographies and customer segments.
I would say however that I'm generally pleased with our progress in most aspects of the business although the second quarter had its normal share of ups and downs.
On the positive side our Paint Stores Group continues to perform well.
Comp store sales growth at 7% will likely outpace the U.S.
architectural paint market in the second quarter although we continue to see demand disparity across certain customer segments.
Residential market demand in both new build and repaint remains very strong in -- even in the month of June.
Most of the nonresidential markets while positive continue to lag the strength of residential.
Protective and marine for example a strong category throughout 2012 has softened thus far in 2013.
Paint Stores segment margin for the quarter improved 280 basis points over the second quarter last year and eclipsed 20% operating margin percent to sales for the first time on record.
This margin improvement was evenly divided between gross margin expansion and SG&amp;A leverage.
Global Finishes Group also made solid progress in the quarter despite the challenging conditions in most geographies outside of North America.
Revenue growth in the quarter was aided by an acquisition completed in the fourth quarter last year but the earnings improvement in the quarter came entirely from the core business.
Flow-through on organic revenue growth in the quarter was nearly 65% with notable improvement in both gross margin and SG&amp;A.
Although we're not satisfied with the current pace of revenue growth in this segment as market conditions improve at home and abroad Global Finishes Group margins should continue to expand.
On a less positive note Consumer segment continues to feel the effect of loss paint businesses at several retail customers although they've worked hard to mitigate the impact for the lost volume on segment profits.
Perhaps the greatest disappointment in our quarter was the $11.8 million charge to our Latin American Coatings Group.
The charge is related to our handling of import duties on products brought into Brazil during the years 2006 through 2008.
Although we believe our handling of import duties was consistent with a large number of multinationals doing business in Brazil we elected to accept a voluntary amnesty program offered by the government to resolve this issue rather than encourage significant legal expenses to contest it in court.
In 2009 we changed our import duty process.
However the years subsequent to 2008 remain open to audit.
On the raw material front it's pretty apparent that the major chloride TiO2 producers were unsuccessful in implementing the price increases announced in the first quarter of 2013 to be effective early in the second quarter.
Additional price increases were announced late in the second quarter with nominal effective dates generally around July 1.
The increased plant utilization rates decreased inventory levels and optimism of a third quarter TiO2 demand were cited as reasons for the increases.
However in all geographic markets TiO2 pricing held steady in July and we do not believe that market dynamics will change sufficiently over the balance of the year to justify the implementation of these increases in 2013.
Although crude oil moved up during the second quarter propylene the key feedstock for monomers latex solvents and containers remained relatively stable and we expect that to continue as well for the balance of the year.
With our assumption of stable TiO2 costs and the current pricing of propylene we expect average year-over-year raw material cost for the paint and coatings industry to be down low-single digits in 2013.
In the first 6 months of 2013 we've generated $302 million in net operating cash an increase of $100 million over the first half of 2012.
Approximately half of the improvement in net operating cash was from the increase in net income in the quarter the other half resulting from lower cash required to fund our working capital.
Working capital as we measure it which is receivables plus inventories minus payables decreased as a percent of sales to 12% from 12.6% in the second quarter last year.
We continue to use the company's cash to purchase shares of our stock for treasury increase our cash dividend and expand our controlled distribution platform.
During the quarter we acquired 800 000 shares of the company's stock for treasury bringing our total year-to-date repurchase activity to 1.3 million shares at an average cost of $178.86 per share and a total investment of $232 million.
On June 30 we have remaining authorization to acquire 15.2 million shares.
Yesterday our Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share up from $0.39 per share last year.
So far this year our Paint Stores Group has added 22 net new stores 13 of which were open in the second quarter.
This brings our total store count from the U.S.
Canada and the Caribbean to 3 542 compared to 3 470 1 year ago.
As we commented in April we are ramping up our new store opening activity and our Paint Stores Group plans to add approximately 70 to 80 net new store locations during the year.
Looking ahead we remain optimistic that U.S.
architectural paint market demand primarily in the residential segments will remain strong as we go through the prime painting season.
Based on this outlook our expectation for third quarter 2013 is for consolidated net sales to increase in the range of 6% to 9% compared to last year's third quarter.
With sales at that level we expect diluted net income per common share for the second quarter to be in the range of $2.55 to $2.65 per share compared to last year's record performance of $2.24 per share.
For the full year 2013 we expect consolidated net sales to increase over 2012 by mid-single-digit percentage with annual sales at that level we are reaffirming our expectation for full year diluted net income per common share to be in the range of $7.45 to $7.55 per share compared to $6.02 per share earned in 2012.
Again thanks to all of you for joining us this morning.
And now we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from the line of John McNulty with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions just on the overall business fundamentals.
The volumes for same-store sales kind of number for your Paint Stores was 7%? And I think when you adjust for kind of Easter falling out of this quarter unlike last year it looks like it's more like a 5% type number which seems a little bit lighter than what we would expect given what's going on in the construction market.
So I guess can you walk us through maybe some of the puts and takes that might be driving those volumes maybe coming in a little bit lighter than expected? Yes so I'll take a crack at that John.
First of all I think the 2% impact for Easter might be a little strong for us.
It's not that strong of an impact.
And we have been commenting about the mix change we've been seeing this year.
So our gallon numbers actually were terrific.
And it's slightly higher than that sales number that we indicated.
We're pretty confident that that is a an improvement over what the market ran for the particular quarter.
So from our perspective we see that as a pretty good quarter for the Stores group.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then just one quick question with the regard to the guidance.
I mean you're reaffirming the guidance at this point.
Yet and it sounds like the raw material environment's better than you were originally thinking.
So are you starting to give some back maybe on the pricing side or are there other kind of puts and takes that we should be thinking about? Is it something around the timing of Comex potentially closing or I guess what's the change there? Yes I think the guidance reaffirming has a couple of moving parts in it.
You're correct the raw material environment certainly is looking better.
But we've also just taken an $0.08 hit relative to this Brazilian tax.
So holding the guidance at that level we think indicates our confidence in the strength of the second half.
The next question is coming from the line of Robert Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Chris I was wondering if you can help out on the consumer side.
You've referenced losing some business at a few retail customers.
I guess we knew Walmart was a prominent one.
Could you maybe give us a little color on the others? And then if we were to take that issue aside why wasn't there better growth in the consumer given that as you said the residential markets were reasonably hot? Yes fair question Bob.
Thanks for the call.
We have commented repeatedly about Walmart as well as in earlier calls confirming a Masco comment about the displacement of the Sherwin-Williams Dutch Boy program out of Home Depot Mexico.
As Masco Behr moved that program into that country for the first time.
So those are the 2 impacts that we're seeing for the division.
And that's had a significant impact.
If we back those 2 things out we're marginally positive there.
We have commented for many many quarters now that this segment has a little bit of a tough road ahead of us given the strength of the stores organization in the same markets that they're competing with.
And for the -- to your comment about rebounding home programs we made the comment that we were disappointed in the quarter.
So we expect this team to do better.
Our next question is coming from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Last quarter you commented on a big deviation in volumes between external and internal paint.
I think a lot of that was weather related.
Chris can you just sort of update us on how that evolved during the second quarter? Yes this is Sean Hennessy.
The -- when you look at the volumes and that disparage between the exterior and interior that we had really because of the exterior first quarter 2012 that we had very very strong.
As we saw a little more normal but exterior's still because of rain different rain in certain segments.
But usually we don't talk about weather.
But because of that it wasn't all the way back to normal yet on that interior/exterior mix.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just one quick one on Comex as best as you can answer it.
Can you point us towards some other transactions in Mexico that were brought and ultimately went through closed perhaps some concessions? Do you have a sense of that? No we don't have any comment regarding those transactions at this point in time.
The next question is coming from the line of Chris Nocella with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you just give us a sense of how long you think the appeals process could take with Comex? And I see some headlines suggesting accommodation to that market share of maybe 48% to 58%.
So can you remind us of your market share in Mexico and maybe what level you think they'd be comfortable with? Yes so I can't answer the deal process because it's somewhat perfunctory Chris.
After a verdict like this the parties have 30 days to issue in a formal appeal.
And then once the Chairman of the commission has accepted the appeal they have 60 days and those are working days just to clarify that to render an opinion on that.
It would be inappropriate for us to make any comments relative to what levels of market share the commissions would be interested in seeing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay does a Comex deal without Mexico make sense? Maybe supplement it with a large share repurchase? I think there are reasons for people to think through that.
Our public statements are that we're -- remain committed to completing the full transaction including both the Canadian United States and Mexican sides of the deal.
Our next question is coming from the line of Aram Rubinson with Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> Starting at the news on Comex understand your desire to go to the mat to get the deal done but 2 things in and around that and then a follow-up.
One are you able to kind of buy back stock aggressively or are you kind of in a holding pattern as that relates whether it's kind of a quiet period or other things like that? And then second how can you make sure that you avoid distraction inside the company so that if you kind of go at this another couple of quarters or 6 months that it doesn't kind of affect your business in any unintended way? And then I have a follow-up.
Sure.
When you think a look at the stack we are in a blackout.
We're in a blackout for 3 days until 3 days after we've announced then.
We think we'll continue with what we've been doing in the past but as of today we can't buy stock today.
In terms of avoiding distraction Aram we are the masters at avoiding distraction at Sherwin-Williams.
We've had lead lawsuits and all the kinds of noise for -- to contend with.
And here again we're blessed with really terrific leadership in our field operations.
Our folks are out selling paint today and taking care of customers just like every other day.
So while the folks on the phone are spending a little time on this issue rest assured the rest of the 40 000 folks are doing what they're supposed to be doing today.
Research Division</strong> And just around the California legislation could you just comment as to whether or not you've reserved differently? The 10-Q usually comments on kind of reserves for environmental and how you're kind of treating that and whether or not the prior cases that have been dismissed are fair precedence or you think this one might be I don't know be more unique? No we think that's fair precedence.
You think about Rhode Island and a lot of others.
Mississippi Wisconsin Ohio New Jersey.
We've never created a reserve for lead lawsuits.
Our next question is coming from the line of Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Chris I think you had made a comment in your prepared remarks that your comparable store growth is 7%.
Paint Stores' likely outpace the market.
So if you can give us a sense of where you think the market is running at the industry level for gallonage? And how much you might be exceeding that pace? Yes we don't have good visibility into that Kevin until several quarters in arrear when some of the various reporting groups get some data out for us.
We have commented that we believe our industry grows at a historically in pace with GDP 1% to 2%.
As we rebound to a more normalized architectural coatings demand in our market we've talked about that running at a little higher pace let's say 3% 4%.
We've seen growth for the industry maybe in the range of 5% here over the last couple of years as we're seeing some of these rebounding quarters.
But as I mentioned in the first call that John asked don't forget that our gallon numbers were in excess of that 7% revenue number.
So we'll have a better sense here in a little bit.
But we're still pretty confident that the teams are doing great in the stores group in terms of taking gallon share.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a second question if I may on the Latin America Coatings Group.
I think you had a translation effect there on the top line but your press release seems to indicate there was no impact on segment profit.
I guess it was my understanding you hadn't been hedging and perhaps you could help me kind of understand how the bottom line would've been insulated in the quarter given the volatility in the local currency there? Well I think we did have debt.
I think what we're trying to do over the years especially in the last couple of years is to bring cash forward allow the debt there to be a natural hedge.
And when you look at really Brazil is where we were -- really had a major change in that quarter.
So we were fairly hedged.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then final question for Chris if I may it is in terms of potential scenarios for redeployment of capital if indeed Comex ultimately does not go through.
Care to offer any comments on what you're seeing in terms of the M&amp;A pipeline? Are there other opportunities that you see out there in the private market that might be appealing alternatives? Sure Kevin.
I think as deployment of capital goes forward here regardless of the Comex transaction frankly you're going to see Sherwin continue to operate in its traditional fashion.
We are not hoarders of cash.
We'll put that to work.
We're comfortable buying back stock as we've indicated over the years.
There are always M&amp;A opportunities for us.
We have a disciplined approach and a strategic list of targets that would be of interest to the company.
Your comment about many of them being privately held family businesses dictates it's on a certain path in order to try to get those to market.
And those conversations have been happening in this environment and will continue to happen.
Nothing new to report at this time.
The next question is coming from the line of Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Question on the actual timing of the Comex response I guess from the Mexican government.
It seems like it given the amount of time that they have to respond it wouldn't be until late in the fourth quarter.
So is there any reason that they might -- you might be able to accelerate that so you get a little bit better clarity sooner? Well Nils our intent will be absolutely to accelerate.
And we're approaching this with speed and urgency.
It would be premature for me to comment because I simply don't know how quickly we can get them to engage in what that outcome might be.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
In terms of then in Latin America it seems like the second quarter has been a bit of a dip in the last 2 years.
Is there anything changing in terms of seasonality or product mix that's causing that from the operating profit perspective? We continue to do a lot of different things in Latin America.
In fact we just did a major IT project down there.
And Oracle was now turned on in Argentina on the third of July.
So we've been doing a lot of different things in the last couple of years.
We'll keep moving on that project.
We think that that project's going to help us with working capital and reducing the working capital as a percent of sales.
And I think you're right about the second quarter because if you look at the year-to-date last year our ROS in that segment was 7.4% through the first 6 months and the first 2 quarters.
This year with the adjusted if you add back the Brazilian import situation we're at 8.2%.
And we look at our forecast for the year and I'll just tell you we think that we still see us improving and moving forward on ROS improvement for the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And just a final one if I may.
Does it -- when you look at some of what the competitors have put out there in terms of their growth rate in Latin America it seems like you're doing a little bit better.
Are there -- is there any share shifts going on? Or is it just not really comparable? I think if there are share shifts they're minimal at best at this point in time.
The next question is coming from the line of PJ Juvekar with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Chris you didn't mention weather and the wet spring which would have impacted at least your Exterior Paint business.
Did you make up any of the losses in June as the weather improved? Okay.
I think on the call PJ we made the comment that we'd seen strength in the residential markets and including during the month of June there was a lot of noise in the market relative to other impacts to the demand curve there.
As Sean said in I think in one of his answers we're not ones for giving weather reports on these calls.
We expect to have weather issues in various parts of the geography at all quarters frankly.
And so the health and robustness of the residential markets both new and repaint are really the core thing that we're looking at and providing confidence on.
And we expect that over a cycle weather will not be that big of an impact.
Research Division</strong> And Chris you talked about some pricing pressure in big commercial projects during the last call.
Can you tell us if that is continuing? And if commercial is weak to get to 7% same-store growth was residential up double digits? Yes on both recounts.
Commercial bidding activity in an environment like this where folks are going aggressively after gallons has always been tough in an environment.
With moderating raw materials we expect to see it even more so and that's been the case.
And then on your analysis on the residential impact being double-digits is also accurate.
Research Division</strong> And just quickly have you seen any impact from paint geared towards contractors launched at Lowe's [ph] ? No we have not.
I don't think that program's been out there long enough to get any indication of the impact it might have.
The next question is coming from the line of Duffy Fisher with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk to the incremental margin in the Paint Store business jumped really strong this quarter up over 50% where it had kind of been 38% in the first quarter.
Can you walk through the buckets of what improved so well in that business as far as profitability relative to sales growth? Well I would tell you #1 we're starting to see SG&amp;A improvement.
I know that in the first quarter we had mentioned that in the first quarter 2012 that sales were so strong we did not get all the SG&amp;A service dollars into that first quarter that we should have had.
And we had to go against that history in the first quarter of this year.
And remember at the end of the first quarter we said hang in there because we thought that we would be flat to down slightly year-to-date in SG&amp;A which we finally did.
But as those gallons go through the stores this is the piece where we really feel good about our flow-through.
And I think that it was just gallons gallons going through but that's G&amp;A leverage.
And that's what -- that's really what created it.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
So that feels like a good solid margin that above 20% is a good baseline as you would look at it and others see seasonality with it but there is nothing -- okay terrific.
Yes we think that's in the first and the fourth quarter and I...
Research Division</strong> Yes fair enough.
And then when you look at your business and the Comex business in Mexico not so much around the deal but we've certainly got a lot of bad macro news flows about the housing market down there and financing for housing.
How would you handicap the health of the coatings market going into that today versus if you think about when you would have announced the deal? It's clearly softer Duffy specifically around the impacts that you've mentioned.
The government has redirected some of their support for various housing programs.
And that's had an impact on some of the large homebuilders in the region.
So we have felt that in our business moderately and I would suspect Comex has as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just one last question on Comex in particular.
I remember Chris you talking about one of the really strong points of the Comex business was just the density that they had.
And if one of the fixes and again this is a little bit of a speculation but if one of the fixes that the government would ask for is the divestiture of some of the points of sale is that a linear line? Or is there something asymmetric there where the business starts to lose some of its attractiveness pretty quickly if you had to divest some stuff? Yes first of all their business model is through an independent concessionario 3 300 of these other Mexican businesses which operate these facilities.
They're not owned by the Comex company themselves.
so that in and of itself may not be the solution.
And again as we've commented earlier all those types of potential outcomes are just purely speculative at this point in time and we prefer to wait and work through the normal channels here.
Our next question is coming from the line of Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> First on the gross margin expansion.
Could you help us with how much of it was due to manufacturing leverage with the gallons coming through versus the price of raw material mix dynamic? I would say that the gallons coming through our plants when you look at the -- I'll just go to the very -- the 45% versus the 43.8% on a year-to-date basis.
Really the majority of it was just the strong sales the incremental sales.
I would say the incremental gallons and incremental sales are really the -- they've created that gross margin not selling price.
Research Division</strong> Right so and then I guess that ties into the next okay.
If gallons are up 8 current resi stronger than commercial how should we think about the 8 versus the 7 in terms of that price it's basically just all mix? And is it mix within those different categories or just mix between the 2? I would say mix within category yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then lastly you guided to a 6% to 9% growth number for the third quarter.
I guess what's sort of taking that acceleration? Is there something easier compares or do you see anything specific in terms of orders or customer dynamic to give you that confidence? No I think if you look at it we think we're fine.
I think the third quarter's looking a little stronger.
But I wouldn't say that our sales in the second quarter versus 6% to 9% is that dramatically different right? I think we're going to be fine.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Chris and I realized you can't say much on Comex but just to make sure I got the timing right.
You said the -- you've already extended the merger agreement to the end of August.
Would you expect to extend that again in the near term to give yourself more time given the 30-day for a formal peer and 60-day review? Yes it's premature to comment on that at this point in time Greg.
I'm sorry.
The next question is coming from the line of John Roberts with UBS.
Research Division</strong> In the Global Finishes segment were there similarities or differences between Auto Refinish and other businesses like Product Finishes? I would have thought you might be seeing some benefit from the Exalta situation that the 2 businesses might have to converged within that segment? I think that when you look at the Automotive we had Pulanna which was an acquisition.
So the Automotive piece was the strongest of the 3 pieces with or without the acquisition.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And was there material spending in the quarter on the Comex deal in your SG&amp;A? $0.01 to $0.02 a share.
Our next question is coming from the line of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research Company.
With some insight into where raw material costs are at this point as you'd indicated as you think about the map or the path on gross margin from here.
I'm wondering if you can just give us some of your thoughts and strategy and thinking on where that goes? Yes and I think when you look at the gross margins for the first half of the year we were at 45.
I think that without the Brazilian situation that we spoke of that 45.2%.
And we've continually said we're in that 43% to 46% range.
And I would expect that our gross margin will come in between that 45% and 46% range for the year.
There's been some discussion in the past of the range potentially being better in this cycle.
I'm wondering as you think of the structural issues going on with input cost and also where we are in terms of volume and leverage how do you think about doing better than that 43% to 46% range over the next 12 to 18 months? I think that over this period I think as we've commented in the past we've always believed that eventually we'd be at 44% to 47% potentially 45% to 48%.
I think that right now it'd be premature.
One of the things that we are sort of waiting to see is after the Comex closes to really show the combined gross margin it would be an effect in the short run.
And we think it changes our long-term goal.
So I think if that -- when that occurs I think we'd be in a lot better shape to give you some updated numbers.
In terms of related to this secondly in terms of the benefit from the input costs looking at better revenue growth than the quite incremental margin in the back half of the year should the profitability progress of the first half be sustained or improved in the back half? How should that look as we work through the second half? Yes when you look at the first 6 months I think that we're at 3 57 versus 3 13 at $0.44.
The mid-point of our range is $1 and I'll tell you that we're going to have to have a higher flow-through in this improvement in the third and fourth quarter than we'd had in the first 2 quarters.
And then secondly as it relates to the Comex.
I'm just curious what color you can give us on your interactions with the commission prior to last evening's decision from them? If you could just shed some light on the interactions the questions they've asked and sort of given your response to the decision last night relative to those interactions? Sure just briefly Eric on that point.
We've been represented by outside counsel in Mexico City who specializes in working with this commission.
They have had appropriate meetings with the commissioners during the process.
Several of our management team has been able to participate in those discussions to help clarify points provide data et cetera.
And so I would characterize that as being open and appropriate conversations.
Was that a surprise last night relative to the sort of candor and tone of those discussions? I'd be careful to not particularly use that word surprised.
I think we'll just leave it at disappointment.
The next question is coming from the line of Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> Chris just to clarify or maybe expand a little bit on that the last question.
So can you talk at all even high level on some of the points of contention that the commission raised things that you have to go back and look at or address just to understand what are the dynamics that the commission is focused on? Yes Dennis as we commented we got this report late last night.
It was 144 pages in Spanish.
We are going through that in great detail at this moment.
I think it just would be premature to comment at this time unfortunately.
LLC</strong> Come on Chris.
You got to bone up on your Spanish.
Okay that's fair.
On the business side within same stores can you just maybe comment a little bit more on what's driving the mix and whether that's a temporary dynamic within some of the categories or if that's the exterior/interior dynamic and how that plays out as you kind of normalize out weather? No I think we've mentioned it before.
I think residential's been tremendously stronger than commercial.
And I think that new residential has been fairly strong.
So when you look at those 2 pieces that's really what's been driving it.
LLC</strong> You're seeing the gallon the gallon mix on the residential price is lower than non-res? Or just new construction? New construction in general is usually a lower average selling price.
As that continues to become a higher percentage of our sales that drives gallons faster than sales.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then is there a...
I'm sorry this is Bob.
There is also still a slight interior-to-exterior mix difference relative to last year.
Although it's what Sean said the new construction plus an interior-to-exterior mix difference.
LLC</strong> And is there a similar negative drag on the margin line? No the operating margins are strong.
LLC</strong> All right.
Well I know that they're strong Sean but I'm just asking is there a drag on that or is it just the top line drag? No we've talked for a long time Dennis about the consistency of the platform for products and assessments we're in.
So we're fine in that regard.
Our next question is coming from the line of Charles Dan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First I just want to clarify that the new EPS or the new unchanged EPS guidance does that include the $0.08 Brazilian duty expense? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Is that another way you would have been raising guidance if that -- if we hadn't run into that issue? We've got a dime range and it's only $0.08.
So it's in there.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Well okay.
And then secondly just again to clarify the comments you made about the Mexican housing market getting softer versus when the Comex deal was announced can you just clarify the original arrangement had -- just does it have a price adjustment if there is a material change in that market and the performance because now we're talking with the range that you gave about 1 year going by just before the potential closing? As we continue to do the due diligence and the market has changed there's other things that have not changed and some other things that have gotten stronger.
We continue to look at the pro forma.
We look at what our -- what we expect to get a return on our assets that we put into this and the internal rate of return.
And we don't have an automatic adjustment for the market conditions.
I think that as we've gone through I think we're still if this closes any time soon even with the in our mind short-term market changes in Mexico we think this is going to create nice shareholder value.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly just 2 housekeeping questions.
One your administrative expense excluding the change in interest expense seems to be down in the first half of the year.
Do you expect that to continue to be down in second half? Or should we think about that going back up? And...
Well I think -- oh I'm sorry go ahead.
Research Division</strong> No no go ahead.
I'm going to ask the second one afterwards.
I would say that we expect even without the SG&amp;A from the interest expense the way you were referring to that question we think that that expense will be up slightly in the year.
We just think there were some timing  and again we have some -- a couple IT projects that we're going to be working on in that -- in admin also.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then lastly if you could just give the gross profit change by segment if you could just...
Sure.
I got it.
Gross profit change by Store group $83 million.
Consumer Group was down $400 000.
Global Finishes $8.6 million improvement.
And Latin America is down $9.2 million.
And I just want to remind you that $9.2 million is -- that's where the $11.8 million was expensed as the cost of goods sold.
The next question is coming from the line of Ivan Marcuse with Keybanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Real quick.
The residential recovery's been going on for a while now and I understand nonresidential tends to lag it's historically lagged.
Is this lag lasting a little bit longer than you would have expected? Or is this sort of in line with expectations? And how would you sort of gauge your outlook for nonresidential based off of I guess historic trends? Ivan this is Bob.
I think what we're seeing is that there are certain categories of nonresidential that has been real slow to start.
And that's not unexpected.
Retail was severely overbuilt during the last run-up.
We're seeing solid construction activity in multi-family housing.
We're seeing a pickup in office.
Some of the institutional categories specifically schools and government buildings have been slow to start.
So it's choppy across subcategories in the nonresidential market.
But I think most of the nonresidential market is starting to pick up as expected.
As a reminder we do expect positive overall nonresidential volume this year in terms of square footage put in place.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then for the Mexican market if you could you remind me what is the breakdown between I guess the total volumes in housing new construction and repaint? And how much do the builders -- do they dominate the large builders dominate the new construction in Mexico? How does that market sort of -- I mean how do gallons break out I guess...
Yes it would be very similar to the United States architectural business model that we've commented on for a long period of time.
The vast majority of coatings in Mexico are to maintain and decorate existing structures.
New construction totally would be in that 25% range plus or minus a little bit.
There are large Mexican homebuilders but there are hundreds if not thousands of other independent builders as well too.
So you can pretty much apply the same kind of modeling to the U.S.
market that we've commented on and share with you a long period of time to Mexico.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my last question.
On the Brazilian market there's been a lot of uncertainty.
Does that continue to -- what are you seeing in terms of your business on there? It looks like your results remain fairly strong.
Yes I think there has been some noise surrounding Brazil's overall economic environment.
We've had some segments that have been a little bit harder hit.
Don't forget that one of the things that Brazil has in its future is hosting this World Cup and the Olympics.
And the construction is build out of the required stadiums airport expansion and housing all areas where it would impact our business.
So that's a little bit behind schedule.
But some of our strength is relative to the work we've seen happening in that space so far.
The next question is coming from the line of Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Chris a question on your ability to outsustain or outperform industry growth.
You're growing 7% industry's 3% to 4%.
How much of that do you think is due to your stronger position in new home construction because of your relationships with the top homebuilders? And how much is -- would be repaint where you're just seeing a swing back to contractors? Clearly Don as this rebound is occurring we've commented about the emerging importance of the professional painting contractor.
They have they've troughed a little bit during the downturn.
And we expect that we're on our way back to about a 60-40 mix where 60% of all the coatings will be purchased by professional painting contractors.
Clearly the new residential construction market in terms of -- and all new construction.
Bob just commented briefly on multifamily also being a strong new segment as well so we're getting a lift from that and we'd expect that to continue.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the last call part of your confidence in the outlook for the year was just the backlog that your contactor customer base had.
How is that looking? Are they still relatively confident in the business outlook? And the other comment you made is that weather doesn't create or destroy demand for paint.
It just defers it or accelerates it.
So this adverse weather that we saw in the second quarter does that just push out demand into the third quarter or is lost for the year as a whole? Yes I would say you're accurate with all of your questions there.
We would expect that the contractors book of business looks robust.
Sean just commented on the third quarter sales guidance being a little bit stronger even in our second quarter.
As we meet with these folks on a daily basis through our stores they're continuing to give us indications.
They've got a good book of business.
And to your point about weather just moving demand back none of these folks are commenting about the impact of weather.
They're continuing to be on projects and expect that they're going to have a pretty solid second half as well.
The next question is coming from the line of Dmitry Silversteyn with Longbow Research.
It sounds like from your comments that your commentary on raw material expectations seems to be a little bit better than it was earlier in the year.
I think there was some concern about second half of the year seeing some inflation in the petrochemical side of raw materials at least.
Now you're looking at it being flat and TiO2 obviously is flat and down year-over-year.
Your guidance was basically flat versus your previous expectations.
So is raw material improvement if it is there just not significant enough? Or was this basically the $0.08 penalty from Brazil that prevented you from raising guidance on a little bit more robust outlook for cost? Or is there some other sort of cautionary things that you're seeing in the market in the back end of the year that you would rather keep the powder dry as far as your expectations are concerned? Well on the raw material factor Dmitry there's obviously there's a lot of moving parts.
We believe that the TiO2 producers were going to push pricing hard beginning in the second quarter and they have.
We weren't sure whether market conditions would be such that they'd actually realize some of the pricing that they were pushing.
Our outlook our point of view now is that market conditions will not accommodate a price increase or any effective pricing in TiO2.
We weren't sure whether propylene would remain stable.
It appears to be holding pretty steady despite the run-up in crude oil.
So I would say that to Chris' opening comments there's a lot more clarity now than there was 3 months ago.
I wouldn't characterize on the total raw material basket outlook for the industry as far better today than it was 3 months ago.
It's maybe marginally better.
Okay that's helpful.
And then we're in our third year of negative volume comps on the consumer line or in consumer division.
Obviously in 2011 it was -- the majority of that was Walmart loss and then I guess a little bit of that spilled over into 2012.
And now we have the Mexican Home Depot issues with Masco replacing Dutch Boy.
When are we going to -- or when do you think you're going to anniversary that and we actually get to see sort of the clean performance of the consumer group and hopefully positive numbers [ph]? Yes the other thing just to make sure that -- you did a nice job of presenting the history but you have to remember that when we did do the Walmart deal when that Walmart deal was the major hit and last at the end of the third quarter last year we had another step down.
And that's what we're anniversary-ing.
So on the last call again Masco put it out there.
In the fourth quarter of last year and they -- we had that Mexican Dutch Boy will convert to Behr.
So when you take with the last quarter we said that really we were going to see negative through the third quarter.
Then after the third quarter we'd expect that we'd start to see some improvement there.
So I think we answered it that way after the first quarter and we feel pretty good about that answer.
I wouldn't change it.
Okay so fourth quarter we should start seeing more apples-to-apples type of comparisons anniversary-ing all the headwinds as far as business losses? Yes.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is coming from the line of Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan Chase.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the-- are you -- do you continue to be optimistic about the Comex transaction? Because at worst you could divest your own Mexican business and own their much much larger Mexican business? And did you offer them -- did you offer the commission any remedies so far or remedies have not been discussed yet? Well Jeff we'll always squeeze you in first of all so thanks for being on the call.
And secondarily those are all appropriate thoughts and ideas and questions for you to ask.
And equally as appropriate I cannot comment on any of that at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then lastly sequentially did your prices change either positively or negatively in your stores and in your consumer business? No not at all.
I think when you look at the second quarter versus the first quarter it's been over 12 months since we've had the last price increase.
And the selling prices are not dramatically different.
Research Division</strong> Are you allowed to say whether you're optimistic or pessimistic about the closing of the Comex transaction? Jeff we're optimistic by nature here and I think the comments we gave early on about the multiple paths we have to continue pushing forward here we're hopeful that we'll get this done.
Our next question is a follow-up question from the line of Aram Rubinson with Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> While I'm at it can you talk about both the promotional environment and maybe the cadence of comps by range? Because I think by region you mentioned there was a big range and I was just curious to how wide a range there was by region? Yes so the promotional activity Aram has been very consistent in our industry pretty much for decades on end now.
This is the time of year when you'll see discounting by all the major retailers including Sherwin-Williams to drive traffic into stores around the big peak holiday seasons and certainly July 4 qualifies as one of those.
Bob did comment briefly about our Southeastern division leading the pack Southwestern division second then Eastern and Midwestern.
All of them solidly in the mid-single digits and above range.
The range was not very wide.
Our next question is a question coming from the line of Richard O'Reilly with Revere Associates.
Can you remind me or us we had the volumes in the -- are the volumes for the Paint Stores made in the Consumer Group or is it the other way around? No the product that is sold through Stores Group is produced in the Consumer Group.
So the Consumer Group is making product for sales of the Consumer Group as well as the Paint Stores Group.
So they also handle the logistics and warehousing.
Okay.
So the consumer margin is down only a couple of percentage point -- basis points even though the sales are down because the Paint Stores Group volumes were up so well.
Is that how I should be thinking about it? They definitely get a positive impact yes from having the Paint Stores Group improving volume.
Okay.
And then a second question if I can.
Following up on the raw materials I think you had said you saw your -- the overall basket now down low single digits.
And we know about pigments.
And propylene at least is down from the first quarter levels.
What else in that basket is up or down noticeably? I mean is packaging or is distribution in there? What else can you comment on? Richard distribution is not in there.
But we tend to comment on propylene and TiO2 because TiO2 represents the vast majority of the pigment category.
And propylene affects about -- the cost of about 60% of the raw material basket by cost.
So we find propylene to be a good proxy for most of the rest of the basket outside of pigments.
There is some movement in various specific solvents that we don't tend to delve into.
But for the most part packaging latex and resins and most of the base load solvents are holding pretty steady.
Our next question is coming from the line of JD Punjabi with Very.
Just -- can you give us a little bit more color on what's going on in the Marine and Protective market? Why is it we can actually -- when you expect things to turn around there? And also if you can provide a little bit more color on some of the other industrial coating markets that will be great.
Yes.
So the Marine market Protective and Marine markets for us predominantly as we've commented through our Global Group businesses is a North American business.
So we have a terrific share position in the United States on a variety of different end segments here.
I think Bob also commented about just some of the softness that we're seeing in the nonresidential sector of the economy and frankly that's almost totally where the Protective and Marine business resides.
Our segments would include there Bridge and Highway petrochemical wastewater treatment energy food and beverage.
The military's an important component of that.
Or better said the government is an important component of that.
So sequesters have a little bit of an impact here as well.
The good news for this business for us has always been that this is one of these types of painting projects that you can't defer maintenance for long.
And so we think there's been just a slowing of it a little bit over this last quarter.
And discussing the projects that we see on the books and with our contractors who work in this space they're confident that the second half of the year will be better for them and we'd expect to report that going forward.
It appears there are no further questions in queue at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Wells for any concluding comments.
Thanks Jesse.
As always I will be available for the balance of the day tomorrow and throughout the coming week to answer your follow-up questions.
I appreciate your patience if you're in the queue now.
And again thanks for joining us today and thank you for your continued interest in Sherwin-Williams.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining the Sherwin-Williams Company's Review of the Third Quarter 2013 Financial Results and Expectations for the Full Year.
With us on today's call are Chris Connor Chairman and CEO; Sean Hennessy Senior Vice President Finance and CFO; Al Mistysyn Vice President Corporate Controller; and Bob Wells Senior Vice President Corporate Communications and Public Affairs.
This conference call is being webcast simultaneously in listen-only mode via Vcall via the Internet at www.sherwin.com.
An archived replay of this webcast will be available at www.sherwin.com beginning approximately 2 hours after this conference call concludes and will be available until Thursday November 14 2013 at 5:00 p.m.
Eastern time.
This conference call will include certain forward-looking statements as defined under U.S.
federal securities laws with respect to sales earnings and other matters.
Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which the statement is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A full declaration regarding forward-looking statements is provided in the company's earnings release transmitted earlier this morning.
After the review of the third quarter results we will open this session to questions.
I will now turn the call over to Bob Wells.
Thanks Rob.
In order to allow more time for questions we provided balance sheet items and other selected information on our website at sherwin.com under Investor Relations third quarter press release.
Summarizing overall company performance for the third quarter 2013 versus third quarter 2012 consolidated net sales increased 9.4% to $2.85 billion due primarily to higher paint sales volumes in our Paint Stores Group.
Acquisition increased consolidated net sales 1.1% in the quarter and unfavorable currency translation decreased net sales 0.8%.
Gross profit dollars increased $145.7 million to $1.3 billion.
Gross margin increased 130 basis points to 45.5% of sales from 44.2% in the third quarter last year.
The increase in gross margin was primarily due to improved fixed cost absorption from increased sales volumes that were partially offset by import duty assessments related to our Brazilian operations.
These import duty assessments reduced gross margin by 60 basis points in the quarter.
Selling general and administrative expense for the quarter increased 11.2% to $889.7 million.
As a percent of sales SG&amp;A increased to 31.2% in the third quarter this year from 30.7% last year.
Incremental SG&amp;A from new stores customer service investments and acquisitions accounted for the majority of the SG&amp;A increase in the quarter.
Interest expense increased approximately $5 million to $15.4 million due primarily to prefunding of the Comex acquisition.
Consolidated profit before taxes in the quarter increased $44.5 million or 13% to $387.5 million.
Profit before tax as a percent of sales increased to 13.6% from 13.2% last year.
Our effective tax rate in the third quarter this year was 32.1% compared to 31.5% in the third quarter of 2012.
Year-to-date our effective tax rate is 32.1% which is in line with our expectation for full year 2013.
Consolidated net income increased $28 million to $263 million compared to $235 million in the third quarter of 2012.
Net income as a percent of sales increased to 9.2% from 9% in the third quarter last year.
Diluted net income per common share for the quarter increased 13.8% to $2.55 per share from $2.24 per share in the same period last year.
Third quarter 2013 reported EPS includes the Brazilian import duty assessment which decreased diluted net income per common share $0.13 in the quarter.
Currency translation increased earnings per share in the quarter by $0.02 and acquisitions reduced earnings per share $0.02.
Looking at our results by operating segment.
Sales for our Paint Stores Group in the third quarter increased 13.5% to $1.76 billion.
Higher paint sales volumes across all end market segments accounted for most of the increase in sales.
Acquisitions increased sales by 1.5% in the quarter.
Comparable store sales that is sales by stores opened more than 12 calendar months increased 10.9% in the quarter compared to the third quarter last year.
Regionally in the third quarter our Southeastern division led the sales performance followed by Southwestern division Midwestern division and Eastern division.
3 of the 4 Paint Stores divisions reported double-digit sales increases compared to last year.
Segment profit for the group increased $58.8 million or 19.6% to $359.4 million in the quarter as higher sales volumes were partially offset by higher year-over-year selling general and administrative expenses and dilution from the Comex acquisition.
Acquisitions decreased segment profit by $2.6 million.
Operating margin increased to 20.4% from 19.3% in the third quarter last year.
Turning to our Consumer Group.
Sales in the third quarter increased 5.4% to $366.8 million due primarily to the timing of seasonal shipments to some customers.
Acquisitions increased Consumer Group net sales 0.2% in the quarter.
Third quarter segment profit for the Consumer Group increased $16 million or 28% to $73.1 million due primarily to higher sales volume and improved operating efficiencies.
Segment profit as a percent of external sales increased to 19.9% from 16.4% in the same period last year.
For our Global Finishes Group sales in U.S.
dollars increased 3.1% to $507.3 million in the quarter due primarily to selling price increases and acquisitions.
In the quarter acquisitions increased net sales in U.S.
dollars by approximately 1.3% and unfavorable currency translation rate changes decreased sales by 0.4%.
Stated in U.S.
dollars third quarter segment profit increased $8.1 million or 22.2% to $44.5 million due primarily to higher selling prices improved operating efficiency and positive currency translation.
Currency rate changes increased segment profit in the quarter by $3.4 million.
As a percent to external net sales segment profit increased to 8.8% from 7.4% in the third quarter last year.
For our Latin America Coatings Group third quarter net sales in U.S.
dollars were flat to last year at $208.6 million.
Selling price increases and higher sales volumes in the quarter were offset by unfavorable currency rate changes.
Unfavorable currency decreased net sales by 8.9% in the quarter.
Stated in U.S.
dollars segment profit decreased to a loss of $1 million in the quarter compared to profit of $21.9 million last year primarily due to charges related to an import duty tax assessment in Brazil.
Charges of $19.8 million were recorded in the quarter to resolve a dispute by the Brazilian government over our handling of import duties through the year 2012.
We believe the second and third quarter payments to the Brazilian government totaling $31.6 million fully resolve all claims related to import duties.
Currency translation rate changes had no significant impact on third quarter segment profit.
And as a percent of net sales segment operating profit was a negative 0.5% from 10.5% in the third quarter 2012.
I'll conclude my remarks from the quarter with a brief update on the status of our lead pigment litigation.
Arguments in the Santa Clara County case involving public nuisance claims brought by 10 California cities and counties against 5 defendant companies concluded on September 23.
As a reminder this is a bench trial.
The outcome will be determined by the judge presiding over the case.
By statute the judge has 90 days from the date of closing arguments to deliberate and render a judgment.
At this point we have no further indication or sense of timing on the decision.
That concludes our review of the results for third quarter 2013.
So I'll turn the call over to Chris Connor who will make some general comments and highlight our expectations for the remainder of the year.
Chris? Thank you Bob.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us today.
The third quarter was another solid quarter for Sherwin-Williams in terms of sales momentum profit improvement and cash generation.
Consolidated sales net income and earnings per share each set new record highs for any quarter in our company's history.
Net operating cash increased more than $100 million compared to the third quarter of 2012.
It stands at just over 10% of sales through our first 9 months.
Excluding the import duty assessments in Brazil our flow-through on pretax income was more than 37% through 9 months.
Paint Stores Group continued to deliver strong year-over-year sales growth at the pace we believe is comfortably ahead of the market.
Comp store revenue and gallon volume both posted strong double-digit gains in the quarter.
And for the second consecutive quarter segment profits as a percent of sales exceeded 20%.
Our investments in new store openings and superior store staffing continues to drive profitable market share growth for this team.
Consumer Group reported solid sales growth in the quarter as well.
It is somewhat by the timing of seasonal shipments to some customers.
The strong profit performance in Consumer Group was the result of gross margin expansion from significantly higher manufacturing volumes primarily to support Paints Service Group as well as good SG&amp;A expense control.
Our Global Finishes Group also turned in a strong profit performance in the quarter despite weak demand in many regions where they compete in the world.
Backing up the effects of acquisitions and currency sales grew just over 2% while segment profit increased nearly 13%.
Through 9 months Global Finishes segment profit margin has increased 110 basis points solid progress towards the double-digit operating margin target we've commented on in the past.
Latin American Coatings Group continues to face significant headwinds from currency devaluation and softening market condition.
Sales in local currencies and volumes were positive in the quarter but segment profit continued to be pressured by weak currency and a tepid demand environment.
On the raw material front.
Over the past few quarters we've seen a steady stream of price increase announcements across a broad range of commodity categories.
Many of the major chloride TiO2 producers announced first and second quarter price increases in the range of $0.10 per pound followed by a third round of price increase announcements in September with nominal effective dates around October 1.
Crude oil and propylene are also trading above their average pricing levels in the first half.
Given the timing and impact of these announcements we think that most of these increases are unlikely to gain traction over the balance of 2013.
2014 remains uncertain and we will give more guidance on this topic during our year-end call in late January.
Our full year outlook for average raw material cost for the industry should be down low single-digits compared to 2012 still feels about right to us.
Although input costs have shifted from a strong headwind to a slight tailwind over the past 24 months the majority of a 130-basis-point increase in our third quarter gross margin resulted from volume-driven operating efficiencies in our global supply chain.
The SG&amp;A spending was up almost $90 million in the quarter and increased 50 basis points as a percent of sales.
Most of this increase was attributable to a higher service expense across our existing store base to 84 net new stores we've opened in the past 12 months and incremental SG&amp;A from acquisitions.
We've commented in the past about the benefits of investing ahead of market growth.
I clearly believe the SG&amp;A investments we made in our Paint Stores Group in the back half of 2012 contributed significantly to the strong revenue and volume growth they've reported these past 9 months.
In the third quarter we generated $476 million in net operating cash bringing our 9-month net operating cash to $778 million.
Our 9-month free cash flow net operating cash less CapEx and dividends was $550 million.
We continue to invest the company's cash to expand the controlled distribution platform complete suitable acquisitions increase our dividends and purchase shares of stock from the treasury.
In the first 9 months our Paint Stores Group added 42 net new stores 20 of which were opened in the third quarter.
In September we completed the acquisition of the Comex business in the U.S.
and Canada which added 306 stores.
We finished the quarter with 3 868 stores in the U.S.
Canada and the Caribbean compared to 3 478 stores a year ago.
Today we're increasing our guidance for Paint Stores Group to accelerate net new store openings up to 80 to 90 during this year.
In the third quarter we bought back 1.5 million shares of our common stock in the open market bringing our year-to-date total to 2.8 million shares at an average price of $175.72.
In September 30 we have remaining authorization require 13.65 million shares.
Last week our Board of Directors approved the quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share up from $0.39 last year.
On the eve of our second quarter earnings call we received word that the Federal Competition Commission in Mexico had voted to block our acquisition of the Comex business in Mexico.
Since that time we worked closely with the regulatory authorities to secure approval and complete the transaction.
Last Tuesday the newly seated competition commission held a hearing to consider our case.
We expect the ruling within 5 business days of the hearing and both parties stand ready to complete this transaction promptly if and when we receive regulatory clearance.
In the fourth quarter the Comex stores in the U.S.
and Canada should generate sales in the range of $95 million to $105 million and earnings dilution of $0.20 to $0.40 per share.
The wide range in earnings impact is due to uncertainty of the timing of various integration activities.
A significant amount of the anticipated integration work in the U.S.
and Canada will fall under calendar year 2014 as well resulting in earnings dilution next year for this business.
These stores should be accretive to earnings by 2015 and we will keep you posted on our progress throughout next year.
Without the Comex U.S.
and Canada business we expect fourth quarter 2013 consolidated net sales to increase 5% to 7% compared to last year's fourth quarter.
With sales of that level we expect core diluted net income per common share for the quarter to be in the range of $1.29 to $1.39 per share compared to $0.65 per share in 2012 which included a $0.47 per share charge for our deal of settlement.
For the full year 2013 we expect consolidated net sales to increase by mid-single digit percentage over last year.
With annual sales of that level we're updating guidance for diluted net income per common share for the year to be in the range of $7 to $7.30 per share including the Brazil import duty assessment and dilution from the domestic Comex business compared to $6.02 per share earned in 2012.
Again thanks to all of you for joining us this morning.
And now we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Obviously there's been some concern over the impacts of higher interest rates on some of the housing fundamentals here in the U.S.
You obviously reported a very strong quarter regardless.
So was there any sort of cautionary indicators that you saw during 3Q either by geographic region or specific channel? Ghansham I'd say no.
The pure suite we have on market demand is always through our Paint Stores Group.
In recent quarters the new residential segment has been our strongest performer followed by residential repaint.
So those are the 2 categories that would be impacted by any of that.
And frankly we're just not seeing any of that impacting our business.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then on Comex you provided some parameters on 4Q.
And Chris you mentioned some commentary on 2014 in dilution as well.
But how should we think about it on '14 on a quarterly basis? On a quarterly basis -- this is Sean Hennessy.
And let me just try to give you a little more color on this and maybe this will help you.
We think instead of trying to look at the quarter through the first 12 months let's take a look at the first 15 months.
That would take us to the end of 2014.
We think during that time frame we'll lose $0.60 to $0.65 of this Comex U.S.
and Canada piece.
That would include all the synergy and the integration cost as well as -- right now this asset is losing operating profit at this current time.
But I think that $0.60 to $0.65 is all win.
So when we get to calendar 2015 we'll have positive operating profits from this acquisition.
So when you look at quarters I think we'll try to give you a little more color by first second third fourth quarter.
But I think especially when we try to give you that guidance of $0.20 to $0.40 if you ask the follow-up questions that mean if we did all $0.40 then next year would be $0.20 to $0.25 I'd say yes.
If it becomes around $0.20 because of the integration costs not being able to be booked in the fourth quarter then I think next year would be $0.40 to $0.45 by quarter that's not exactly clear yet and as they're termed by a few things.
But by 2015 we see this is a positive operating profit.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Nocella with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> The increments of flow-through to earnings in the stores business was a little bit lower this quarter than the past years.
Your SG&amp;A ticked a little bit higher.
So is this incremental margin progression kind of more in line with the normalized range? Or is there some upside maybe as you acclimate some new stores into your network? Yes.
I think after the second quarter's results Chris and stores posted over 50% incremental margin we caution you not to get too comfortable with that number as much as we would like to see that.
So I think what you're seeing in the quarter and the year-to-date numbers are more typical.
We commented around that up to 30% incremental margin and more comfortable signing up to that through the remainder of the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
And on the Comex Mexico deal it seems like you're still pretty confident that it gets done here.
Do you think that it goes forward as originally planned or maybe will there be some concessions as you get that through? Yes.
The last commission we had gotten to a point with them where we had proposed remedies to address some of their concerns.
I think it would be premature to comment on how this next commission will look at that.
We're certainly aware of those remedies and maybe will be available to them if necessary.
And at this time we're just not sure how it's going to go.
We have commented that we remain optimistic and prepare to move forward.
And hopefully next week we're going to have some good news.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one last for me for my account.
Just what spurred your decision to accelerate the store growth year-on-year? Well I think we're seeing terrific results out of the group.
Our confidence in the market is going forward.
Over the next several years we're going to be that we're going to continue to see high demand for these products as housing rebounds and we yet begin to see with any sustained volume the rebound in the commercial markets which will also impact that segment of the company as well.
So I think you should read into that the confidence we have going forward.
Our next question is from the line of Duffy Fischer with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could just comment same-store sales last quarter were up about 7% this quarter about 10% 9% so a pretty big acceleration.
Is that real in that sequentially it was improving that much? Or might it be that just last year was a lower base in Q3? What was the differential there in your mind? I think you hit it.
I think last year's second quarter was very very strong in 2012.
And the third quarter was the opposite.
We probably had our weakest comp stores in 2012.
So we felt pretty good about going up against that history in the third quarter.
But I think when you look at the sales per store and so forth we feel the market was pretty much the same in the third as well as the second really more has to do with the history.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 2 quick questions on the Comex and the commission down there.
First one is are any of the people the same on this commission versus the first? And then the second is is this an official process where they kind of have to give a declaration of the said time? Or is this something that they could reach out to you and kind of negotiate quietly where they don't have to put out say a press release on this until it's finished? Duffy there are no commissioners seated on this body that were on the previous commission.
So the answer to your first question is no.
And then secondarily my understanding is by Mexican law they have 5 business days to respond to the case that was put in front of them.
I don't think there's going to be negotiations at this point.
I think we're just going to get an up or down vote.
Our next question is from the line of P.J.
Juvekar with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the commercial or nonresidential market? I know it goes up with the lag but what kind of growth are you seeing or you could see in 2014? Yes P.J.
What we're seeing is kind of a staggered start of the commercial market.
You're correct that it typically moves with the 12- to 18-month lag to residential.
We are seeing that pickup in certain nonresidential categories like office space and hospitality have been relatively strong.
That strength has been offset by weakness in retail in some of the manufacturing segments and anything that relies on public funding is pretty soft.
So schools libraries government buildings et cetera has been very weak year-over-year actually down pretty significantly year-over-year.
So it's a mixed bag.
But in total it's just barely better than flat thus far.
We do expect to pick up in many of those other categories and we'll see growth in the market when that happens.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And your same-store sales in Paint group were up 10.9%.
Even that there was very little pricing this year is it all volumes? And could you -- also can you make a quick comment on what you're seeing in DIY with this contractor? Yes.
So I think P.J.
we've been commenting all year that all of the growth is in fact Vi [ph] is running a little bit higher than sales because we have some mixed shift in the business.
We've commented that the new residential business is leading the pack and that's by design is the lower average selling price per gallon.
So a little deflationary pricing in the mix.
So with the 10.9% revenue from the comp stores the volume was actually stronger than that.
So again we can expect that to continue going forward.
DIY has been a good story for us as well.
It lags a little bit.
The residential new construction and residential repaint segments but it's been a strong contributing performer for the company now for several years.
Our next question is from the line of Charles Dan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could give us a little bit more color about the Consumer Group.
I saw the comments about the timing of certain sales.
How much of an impact does that have on the group? And is there any way to adjust for that and figure out what sort of the trend is? Yes.
So I think that we've been commenting that as a result of the loss of these 2 types of business that we're anniversarying both the Walmart domestically and Home Depot in Mexico that this business was going to be off slightly low-single digits down in revenue for the year.
We've been chalking [ph] at that through the first 2 quarters.
We did see a spike in kind of shipments as we commented.
Most of that happened in the last month of the quarter.
And so that was kind of the timing comment.
We would expect that the fourth quarter will be back to kind of that soft performance.
So nothing really different there in terms of the company job [ph] position or program and just riding along with the friends of [ph] customers we enjoy in that business.
Research Division</strong> And just a couple of housekeeping items.
Were there any significant diesel [ph] or closing cost regarding the Comex North America businesses and the SG&amp;A line or elsewhere? And could you give the gross profit year-over-year change by segment? Sure.
When you look at the Comex we commented that it was $0.02 in the quarter.
And that $0.02 is really imposed.
It's all-in at $0.02.
We're probably not going to break out gross margin and SG&amp;A at Comex for 1 month.
On the incremental dollars the gross profit dollars that we will have in the Q.
Store Group was up $129 million.
Consumer was up $17 million.
Global was up -- segment was up $13 million.
LACG was down $12 million and as from that Bob's script and Chris also mentioned that was depressed by approximately by $20 million due to the Brazilian situation.
So without the Brazilian tax situation LACG would have been up high-single digits.
Our next question is from the line of Robert Koort of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could guys talk a little bit about why Comex's business isn't making an operating profit.
It seems most of the times when you buy regionalized businesses they've done well.
So is it just their spread too far? Their density is not high enough? What is it about the business that's not as currently profitable that other acquisitions have been? Yes.
I would say their spread in density Bob is terrific actually.
They've got really good brand recognition store locations and penetration in the geographies that they're operating in.
This is a business that at the time of Comex's acquisition was really focused on new residential construction almost fully.
And last the product line and/or the discipline to really expand into all the other professional painting contractor segments and DIY that have been kind of the hallmark of the Sherwin-Williams Paint Stores.
Over the years their timing was a little bit unfortunate in that they rode the housing market down and really didn't do a lot to try to mitigate that with standing to different segments.
So as we did these businesses and quickly get them ramped up with a broader product selection better inventory control better associated product sales which Sherwin-Williams always has brought to all of these acquisitions and a little bit of a better DIY present.
So we would expect to start to see them rebound closer to Sherwin-Williams' typical store margins.
And I think Sean really articulated that well how we kind of get from where we are today to these integrations and to a positive return in 2015.
And then from that platform begin to move them up to our traditional stores' operating margins.
So thrilled to have these stores.
The talent that came with them in terms of store management sales reps the folks that face customers are great.
And we're excited to get them up and running.
Research Division</strong> Chris will they be rebranded as Sherwin stores? Or will they remain Comex? Yes.
Well first of all they're not called Comex in United States.
They operate under 5 different brand names that were the original names of these businesses.
We may have been rolled up back in late 1990s.
And Comex did nothing to really change that or integrate that.
Our practice has been Bob over time to carefully secure all the customer relationships and at the appropriate time rebrand these stores under Sherwin-Williams.
That process can take anywhere from 3 to 5 years or longer depending on the individual market and strength of the brand.
And that same kind of thoughtful process that we use for Duron and MAB and some of the other recent acquisitions will be the case here as well.
Our next question is from the line of Kevin McCarthy of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Chris I was wondering if you could speak to the expected growth in U.S.
architectural gallon at the industry level for 2013.
Kevin this is Bob.
As you know an industry that is not well tracked and measured there's a lot of estimates out there.
The estimates by the American Coatings Association is that the industry through the first half went up mid-single digits stronger in the second quarter than in the first to actually upper single-digit in the second quarter.
We have not seen any indication that market growth in the third quarter thus far.
And the ACA typically lags the end of the quarter by a month or so.
So -- and frankly we're not very well versed on their methodology so I don't know how they're gathering this data.
But it feels to us like mid single-digits is probably not out of the realm of possibilities for the market.
And that was on top of 3.7% increase in 2012 which was pretty well-corroborated by the ability to look back which you can tie a bunch of different sources.
So to Bob's point an accelerating market was a better industry gallon numbers this year than last year.
Hence more support for the earlier questions about why we're deciding to open more stores.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
I guess speaking of acceleration.
I want to come back to your store count.
I guess you're 42 year-to-date so 80 to 90 would imply something like 38 to 48 in 4Q if my math is right there.
So a couple of questions.
Have you done that many in a quarter before? And as you look at integrating the U.S.
portion of Comex should we think of that number as a grosser net number given any rationalization that you may need to do as integration progresses? Yes.
So this staying on the 80 to 90 estimates for the core incremental growth we absolutely Kevin despite our best efforts haven't gotten to open that many stores in the quarter.
This process always ends up being a back half-loaded exercise despite how hard we push on various real estate developers to get these stores into us sooner.
In fact last year in the fourth quarter we opened 42 stores.
So we'll have to get that done and to know how to do that and we expect to go forward on that.
We haven't commented yet on the 306 Comex stores relative to what the likely closings would be there as a result of overlapping locations.
I think if you would look historically at past transactions we've made somewhere in the 15% to 20% store count would be kind of at the high end of the closings that we would affect.
That would put you in this particular scenario in a 40 to 60 store count.
Don't forget Kevin that as we've shown various maps these stores are actually falling into geographies where our penetration is slightly less than it had been in more of our denser markets.
And so our expectation is that we probably won't see numbers that high maybe 10% to 15% range will be a better -- we'll have to think about.
And those announcements will come up out as leases expire and then we get a better chance to get our hands in the business.
Again as we commented we'll give you a lot more color as we go through 2014 on this business.
Our next question is from the line of Matt McGinley with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> A year ago when you introduced us to Comex you had said that the business when you purchased it it was like maybe worth somewhere around $1 in earnings in the first year.
And you indicated that there will be charges related to U.S.
operations will be $0.60 to $0.65.
Does that imply that the Mexico assets are worth about $1.60 in year 1? Or is this more of a fixer-upper than you had anticipated in that dollar earnings that you had talked about a year ago as off the table? Just to clarify one thing what you said is if we could close that Comex field by the end of the first quarter so once you given us 9 months to do a lot of integration work that we're just talking about now with the U.S.
and Canada piece we would start to look at the dollar in -- a year later.
Number one that's down a little deeper.
We're able to close this on September 16.
But your sense of -- it's not apples and oranges it's a little -- it's closer than apples but it's not totally apples-to-apples.
But Kevin said what you just said you're absolutely right.
All of the indication would be -- is that the Mexican asset would be able to -- is a very strong asset producing nice operating margin.
Research Division</strong> And the U.S.
assets were maybe not as good as you had anticipated when you first looked at the total operation or the Mexican asset was as good as they were 1 year ago? No.
Yes.
Both of those things.
I think we're not that surprised of where we ended up in the U.S.
and Canada assets.
They're pretty much where we thought they would be.
And the Mexican piece is doing fine.
When -- we get asked every once in a while "Would you continue to whet your appetite?" Our appetite is still there for that Mexican piece because that Mexican piece will create shareholder value.
Research Division</strong> Last quarter you discussed some distortions related to weather that may be interior versus exterior mix shift.
And in fact negative and positive [ph] did that reverse in the third quarter? And how much do you think that perhaps pent up demand helped the unit growth in the third quarter? Yes.
I think we actually were mentioning that in the first quarter because in the first quarter 2012 there was repainting going on in Chicago in February.
And so there was really no winter as compared to a normal winter.
So that first quarter was when we really mentioned it.
And I would tell you that pent up year-to-date I think it's evened itself out.
But when you talk about that I don't think it changed any of the pent up.
In the third quarter I think it had more to do with last year in the third quarter was our lowest comp store increase.
But I don't see that as a factor.
Our next question is from the line of John McNulty of Crdit Suisse group.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones.
On the Consumer segment the margins were noticeably higher actually than they've ever been for a third quarter.
How much of it is tied to the strength in Paint Stores versus the lumpiness that you were talking about in terms of order patterns? And is this kind of a sustainable level now that the Paint Store Group is kind of as big as it is? Yes.
I would say that's 60-40.
I think the lumpiness of the sales was 60% of that improvement.
Store group was 40%.
I think that if you look at the beginning of the quarter we were managing our SG&amp;A and so forth.
Nothing [ph] is as strong as sales.
But that strong improvement in sales the consumer for the timing really helped the margins in the third quarter but the Paint Stores group having that volume go through and it was nice.
I would tell you over the years we've continually talked about this consumer group being more in the flattish long-term and we've said that the margins and you've correctly pointed out one of the strongest margins we've ever had will be a little more choppy than stores.
But there'll be times when these quarters we will have quarters like this because of the volume going through and certain things hitting.
The operating margins will be higher than stores.
But over the long term we think that it will be slightly higher because of where stores group in.
But it won't be this high.
In fact every fourth quarter that operating margin is depressed a little bit in that Consumer Group.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then just so we understand what may come out in next week in terms of the decision from the commission is that a -- that's the end of the game kind of decision and it's either a yes or a no? Or is there a further appeal process or is your appeal already in and you can get some derivation of an answer whether it's yes/no or yes if you do the following? How should we think about what the decision actually could potentially be? That's a fair question John and I wish I had more certainty on how I answer this.
This is a brand-new commission and we are one of the first rulings that they're going to distribute.
There's a possibility that their decision is in line with our proposal to them and we accept it and we're good to go.
There may be things that don't agree with what we had prepared to do and they're asking for more.
At which point we would have the ability to discuss that further with them.
So it's a little bit of a difficult answer for us to give until we actually get into the arena.
Our next question is from the line of Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
If we look at that -- Sean if we look at that $0.60 to $0.65 you suggested for the next 4 quarters for Comex U.S.
Canada I'd like to think about it in 3 pieces.
One would be noncash-type charges related to say write-offs or impairment.
And then what's the underlying operating losses for the business? And then thirdly what the percentage of that amount would be cash integration expenses? Chuck over the next 12 months of doing the purchase accounting we're having evaluations.
And so we probably have a better answer for you maybe in 2 quarters.
And the reason I say that is it really depends on how much value we put on certain assets that we eventually are going to eliminate.
And so that would be back to your point the noncash charges.
But we'll see what happens.
I think when you take a look at the cash and [indiscernible] our cash and I would tell you when you think about $0.60 to $0.65 and I'll use $0.60 and 100 million shares so you're talking $60 million I would tell you that cash wise probably 80% 85% of that $60 million will be cash depression that we get from -- that will occur over the next 15 months.
And of that 85% Sean how would you break that down between the ongoing operating loss there or the startup operating loss and then voluntary expenditures when Sherwin-Williams integrate the business? I would probably cut the 80% about 70-30 30% cost of integration and closing cost 70% from the operation.
Then I think by that time then the operations will be cash positive in 2015 -- 2016 very nicely cash positive.
All right.
How should we think about capital expenditures for next year? I don't think there would be a lot to go with what you've already purchased from Comex.
But if you can give us perhaps a scenario to consider if you do indeed get your wish and the deal with Mexico -- with Mexican assets goes forward? I think that if you look at the core I think just when you think about increasing the number of stores the CapEx will be up this year just in the core piece.
I think that there are -- some of the -- majority of the stores that we just -- the 306 are long-term stores for us long-term markets.
And I think you're going to see us put some CapEx into those.
I'll just sort of put this answer in that 3.
So I think store CapEx is going to be up because of increased stores.
Number 2 these stores we are going to put some POS devices in the [indiscernible] stores shaking equipment I mean tinting equipment color equipment that we have.
And then if we complete Comex there'll be another step change there Chuck that if we do complete it we'll give you that number.
All right.
And how should we think about share repurchases in light of how these deals shape up? Originally you indicated you would abstain for most repo activity because of the size of the deal.
Now it's taken place in cases and you have bought back some in the most recent quarter? I think that what really motivated us there to buy back stock is when you look at the cash generation Chuck if you look at our cash generation and in Chris' comments he talked about 10%.
We've never been at 10% of sales through the third quarter in our history and I think that's huge because as you know we're negative in the first quarter.
It used to be if we could be slightly positive through the second quarter we were over 4% year-to-date.
And now we're over 10% for the first time in the third quarter.
And I think we've consistently said that we're not going to hold cash.
We feel that the cash generation from the acquisition will take care of itself.
And we're going to buy back stock with that cash.
We're not going to hold it.
That's great.
One last question.
Just because I don't think anybody mentioned it paint stores pricing in the third quarter I'm going to take that that was flattish? Yes.
Our next question is from the line of Ivan Marcuse with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions.
On Comex in the U.S.
you talked about being more focused on the new residential construction.
Will that be -- if that goes through next year will that be a drag a little bit on your mix as you get new products in there that would be noticeable? And then also with the losses is this going to help or how do you expect your tax rate to be impacted next year assuming just the U.S.
assets? Ivan on the drag of Comex.
I think that it's $500 million.
It's not a small piece when you think about the Stores group.
But in total the gross margins and the operating margins won't be a drag on stores group.
On the selling price I don't think that -- as time goes on it will be slightly.
But I think that there's no doubt that the operating margin in the Stores group next year because of that $0.60 to $0.65 will be a drag.
On the tax rate again we think that if we do complete the Comex acquisition that could give us an opportunity to have a step change in our tax rate.
The U.S.
piece is going to change -- is going to have that kind of a step change.
Our next question is from the line of Dmitry Silversteyn with Longbow Research.
I just wanted to understand a little bit on the Latin American piece.
You've done over the 2 quarters as far as paying the Brazilian duty catch-up for 2 years.
So in the fourth quarter should we expect the margins in this business to sort of get back to whatever normal level is on a year-over-year basis something in the mid to high single-digits? Or is it that we're going to see a sort of a drag in the business that goes beyond the Brazilian duties? Yes.
So you're correct that the Brazilian import tax issue is behind us.
So that will not be recurring or anything from that in the fourth quarter.
We'll be back to the business' performance.
I think what you'll see there Dmitry is the impact that we've been talking about for a while now on just the softening market conditions as well as the currency impact in the margins.
Don't forget that Latin America like all of the coatings businesses buy their raw materials on a dollar-denominated basis.
And so despite the fact that we can manufacture and sell in-country we do have this impact of a global dollar denominator raw material and we shared with you in the past the sizable amount of cost facility with our raw material basket.
So we're probably going to see Latin American margins running lower than their normal run rate even after this tax issue and that will rebound as pricing activities take place raw materials moderate and the dollar versus local currencies gets back online.
Got it.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just I know the question was asked about this already but I couldn't follow the answer so maybe I'll ask it again.
The seasonal shipments that you mentioned in the Consumer business I think you said they took place in September which improved the growth in that division in the third quarter.
Was that sort of pulled forward from the fourth quarter? How should we think about the Consumer business performance in the fourth quarter understanding that it's going up against somewhat tougher comp as well? Yes.
So unlike our stores business where every single days sales are reported based on the gallons that go out the door consumers selling into supply chain of our customers and so whatever their inventory needs are stocking issues are can impact a quarter like this.
And we've commented on this in years past.
There were just a couple of our customers that placed significantly stronger orders on the business in September than we had forecasted for.
And their businesses are doing well and maybe we won't see a fall from that but our guidance for the fourth quarter would be that the consumer segment will post the same kind of numbers that we've been seeing throughout the year and that we expect them to be negative for the year in the low single-digit range.
Got it.
That's helpful.
Then finally and that leads me to my next question.
From what you're seeing your store growth at least because you get out a little bit sooner with the feedback loop how is the October looking as far as [indiscernible] 5-year day [ph] the weather up until recently has been rather warm so I would expect the [indiscernible] to extend a little bit.
Are you benefiting from that in the month of October from what you can see? Dmitry I had 4 inches of snow in my house yesterday so I'm not sure I'm buying the extension of this beautiful Indian summer across America.
I think we've been pretty consistent over the years in not commenting or blaming weather either for goodness or difficult times.
We're going to have pockets of good and bad weather in every quarter across the country.
I think this will be a very typical fourth quarter for the industry in terms of kind of demand cycle.
And certainly there are those jobs that you pointed out that we're seeing next year work still being wrapped up but those are coming to an end quickly and it should be a pretty stable mix environment as it would've been historically.
Got it.
And the last question on the store openings as opposed to Comex.
You're accelerating your fourth quarter store openings as you've done in the last year or 2.
But you're going to be adding over 300 stores in Comex it sounds like you're going to have your hands full in getting those stores' product life and customers over the line with the market.
How should we think about your store openings sort of in 2014 and maybe 2015 before the Comex integration is completed? We'll have a lot more clarity on that in January call Dmitry.
But what I would comment is that we have consistently said for quite some time now that we see 5 000 stores as a reasonable expectation in North America.
And we have an infrastructure in place that knows how to get these stores sourced discovered built opened and running.
I don't think you'll see us fall off that 80 to 90 base at all going toward next year.
Our next question is from the line of Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> First question.
Just with the revenue trend I guess in the third quarter organically we get to about a 9% growth number and you're guiding to 5% to 7% in the fourth.
Obviously there's a lot of stuff that goes into that timing-wise and year ago comps.
As you guys plan for fourth quarter are you thinking on a seasonally adjusted basis that demand is stable up or down relative to the third quarter? I think it's stable.
I think that we feel very good about the stableness of 3 segments.
The one piece that I think that Chris did mention in our guidance is we do not have the fourth quarter repeating and over 5% sales gain in the Consumer group.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then for the Comex stores domestically can you just compare and contrast the physical either location of the stores or size of the stores relative to a typical Sherwin store? Is the capacity of those stores on the revenue side similar or different? Very similar Dennis.
They would be a typical 4 000 to 5 000 square foot box which is right in line with ours.
I think every single one of these 300 stores is leased Sean if I'm not mistaken? Yes.
So they're all leasehold locations.
They would be in fairly similar traffic pattern locations standalone facilities in small strip centers.
I would say there's a good number of these that are in locations that we have coveted to be and we're actually pleased to get a number of outstanding paint stores in new neighborhoods that we currently -- in that locations.
And nothing about the physical locations or box size of these stores will limit our ability to run them at the same kind of average store sales or productivity that we get out of our current format.
Our next question is from the line of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
Margin in the quarter excluding the Brazilian import duties it looks like the overall gross margin was 46 which is the upper end of that range that you historically have talked about or recently talked about getting to.
Curious on how you think about where gross margins go from here also in regards to pricing and mix? And again obviously without Comex where you think the gross margin path might go over the next 6 or 12 months for the company? We feel pretty good about the quarter Eric.
We actually grow 46 1 without -- well we computed but when you look at it for the full year we're in that mid 40 45.
Last quarter we talked about that we think the full year was going to be right in between that 45 year-to-date that we were at the end of the second quarter and the high end of 46.
We feel good about this that we're in that same answer.
A couple of things.
Number one LIFO last year was a big nice improvement.
We were 43 9 going into that fourth quarter we're now at 44 8.
We're not going to have a 9/10 improvement between year-to-date and the fourth quarter this year.
And it's because that LIFO credit that we brought back in the fourth quarter the way raws came in.
You're right that Comex will depress our gross margin a little bit but I think that we still feel good about where our gross margin is.
I think that the volatility in raw materials seems to be a little calmer as with the business.
Markets that Chris mentioned a little more confident in the market and the volumes tremendously more stable than they were in '09 and '10.
I think that our gross margin stays in the range we're in right now depressed a little bit by the Comex but improved because of the volumes that we're putting through subgroup.
Our next question is from the line of Nils Wallin of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just on Comex bringing the negative margin in that business to positive and to actually accretive in the U.S.
stores what needs to happen from rationalization from a new product and then just from normal market growth? What -- those 3 buckets what needs to happen in order to get to your goal? I think a good way to about this Nils is no different than Sherwin opening a new store in kind of the ramp from dilutive impact up to contributing and eventually when you're 3 or 4 running kind of on a comp store profitability level.
So what needs to happen here is mostly productivity.
We need more volume more gallons going through those boxes than they've been enjoying.
I think Sean has done a nice job of taking you through the cost impact that were diluted.
As we rationalized we comment on maybe 10% to 15% store count needs to come out.
There'll be some SG&amp;A adds to strengthen the stores staffing in these facilities.
But it's pretty much the same kind of blocking impact that we do each and every day in these districts to service these customers that we know how to do and we expect we can get these volumes up to the level where they'll be performing.
And I think Sean made the comment accretive by 2015.
And by 2016 really accretive.
So therein lies the path forward.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just because of the timing differences between the Comex U.S.
-- Canada and Comex Mexico assuming that the commission has a favorable decision is there anything that changes besides obviously just the timing is there anything that changes the pace of integration? Do they -- are they dependent at all on one another? No 2 entirely different businesses run separately by Comex for that matter.
So our integration teams are entirely different.
We moved forward on this U.S.
and Canadian teams because it entirely resides inside our Paint Store Group.
And that team was ready chomping at the bit and wanting to go.
And then of course the Mexican piece will be embedded in our Latin American Coatings Group.
An equally talented team down there prepared to get engaged when that one comes.
No issues at all bifurcating these transactions from an integration standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just finally the same-store sales growth is there -- were you taking any share? Because it certainly was a dramatic year-on-year improvement.
Yes.
I think we have to assume we were.
We've seen the release of some of our public competitors.
Bob commented earlier on the call this is the kind of market environment where we think gallons are growing in that mid single-digit range and our gallons were double-digit.
So we're feeling good about the share position of the company right now.
Our next question comes from the line of John Roberts of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Did you say how fast you could close Comex deal if you get a favorable ruling next week? Yes.
We didn't say it.
But I think Chris used the word prompt.
And it really depends on if we get next week I mean we'd like to do it October 1 -- or I'm sorry November 1.
Research Division</strong> Yes October 1 would be great.
Secondly if you get surprised by the lead paint ruling is the appeal process any different for a bench case versus what you paid in Rhode Island that was a jury case? No John.
To our knowledge it's the same.
And it's likely a multiyear process.
Research Division</strong> And then just thirdly above average growth that you're seeing relative to the market do you think that's just professionally applied paint versus DIY? I would think there's more recovery comment in the professional painter market than DIY just because DIY doesn't cycle as much? Yes I think you're right on that.
We certainly are benefiting from the rebound in the professional painting contractor.
That will be a portion of the share gain.
I do think that some of these gallons are coming from our competitors as well.
The next question is from the line of Don Carson of Susquehanna Financial Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> This is Chris Noon stepping in for Don.
Most of my questions have been answered.
But I guess you guys have given some color on U.S.
architectural volume growth year-to-date and I was wondering if you could just give us a little more color on why you've been outpacing it in the year and why you feel confident that you'll be able to continue outpacing the market? Well yes Chris I think it is a combination of factors that have led to our Paint Stores Group outpacing market growth.
I mean number one we were among -- we were in very rare company opening stores during this downturn and as a result we're emerging into the recovery with a much higher store count and with mature stores in markets where we didn't have them prior to the downturn.
Secondly as was indicated earlier by John just in the previous question the painting contractor market appears to be growing faster than the DIY market and that is where the majority of our exposure is in Paint Stores Group.
We introduced a lot of new product lines during this downturn that are getting traction.
So there's a whole -- and we've made significant investments in SG&amp;A in store service level which certainly helps attract new customers and more business from current customers in the recovery.
So it's a broad combination of factors.
[Operator Instructions] Next question comes from the line of Richard O'Reilly with Revere Associates.
I was also going to ask about the weather because in New Jersey it's been beautiful here but I think you've already answered that.
But on the same-store it was up 10.9% 1 year ago it was up 8.9% so that's an average of about 10%.
Do you think that's a real number or is that the year-to-date the 7.4% of data [ph] number that we should be looking at? Well I think the 7.4% is the better number.
I mean there's 9 months of activity there.
If the market's growing in the mid single-digit range and we're running at 7.5% on revenue and volume is a little bit higher that's a pretty strong performance.
I think that's more kind of typical.
We have had periods of time in rebounding markets where we posted multiple quarters in a row of double-digit comp store sales gains but we've never been one to give that kind of robust guidance.
And so I think the 7.4% feels about right.
At this time we've come to the end of our question-and-answer session for today.
I'll now turn the floor back over to Bob Wells for closing comments.
Thanks Rob.
We appreciate all of you joining us on the call this morning.
As usual I will be available over the balance of the day and Monday for any follow-up questions you might have.
Thanks again for your participation and thank you for interest in Sherwin-Williams.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining The Sherwin-Williams Company's review of the fourth quarter and full year 2013 results and expectations for 2014.
With us on today's call are Chris Connor Chairman and CEO; Sean Hennessy CFO; Al Mistysyn Vice President Corporate Controller; and Bob Wells Senior Vice President Corporate Communications.
This conference call is being webcast simultaneously in listen-only mode via Vcall via the Internet at www.sherwin.com.
An archived replay of this webcast will be available at sherwin.com beginning approximately 2 hours after this conference call ends and will be available until Wednesday February 19 2014 at 5 p.m.
Eastern time.
This conference call will include certain forward-looking statements as defined under U.S.
federal securities laws with respect to sales earnings and other matters.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A full declaration regarding forward-looking statements is provided in the company's earnings release transmitted earlier this morning.
After the company's prepared remarks we will open this session to questions.
I will now turn the call over to Bob Wells.
Thanks Jesse.
In order to allow more time for questions we've provided balance sheet items and other statistical data on our website at sherwin.com under Investor Relations 2013 Year End Press Release.
Summarizing overall company performance for the fourth quarter and full year 2013 consolidated sales for the fourth quarter increased 10.6% to $2.46 billion due primarily to higher paint sales volume to our Paint Stores Group and acquisitions.
For the full year sales increased 6.8% to $10.19 billion.
Sales from acquisitions increased consolidated net sales approximately 4.6% in the quarter and 1.8% in the full year.
Currency translation decreased consolidated net sales 1.1% in the quarter and 0.8% for the full year.
Consolidated gross margin in the fourth quarter increased to 45.8% of sales from 44.8% of sales in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The increase in gross margin in the quarter was primarily due to improved fixed cost absorption from increased sales volumes partially offset by lower gross margin sales by the U.S.
and Canadian stores acquired from Comex.
For the year gross margin increased to 45.3% of sales from 44.1% last year.
The increase in gross margin for the year was primarily due to increased production volumes partially offset by import duty assessments related to our Brazilian operation and dilution from acquisitions.
Selling general and administrative expense in dollars increased $70.2 million in the fourth quarter compared to fourth quarter last year but decreased as a percent of sales to 39.2% from 40.1% in the same quarter last year.
For the full year 2013 SG&amp;A expense increased $208 million to $3.47 billion but decreased as a percent of sales to 34% from 34.2% in 2012.
The incremental SG&amp;A from acquisitions new stores and customer service investments accounted for the majority of SG&amp;A increase in the year.
Interest expense for the quarter increased $5.1 million to $16.9 million.
For the year interest expense was $62.7 million compared to $42.8 million in 2012.
Our effective income tax rate for the fourth quarter 2013 decreased to 22.2% from 27.8% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
For the year our effective tax rate was 30.7% compared to 30.4% in 2012.
Our effective tax rate in the fourth quarter and full year was favorably impacted by the integration of Comex stores.
The effective tax rate for the quarter and year without Comex would have been 32.3% and 32.1% respectively.
Consolidated net income for the quarter increased $48.1 million to $116.1 million.
For the year net income increased $121.5 million to $752.6 million.
Net income as a percent of sales in the quarter increased to 4.7% from 3.1% last year.
And for the year net income as a percent of sales increased to 7.4% from 6.6% in 2012.
Diluted net income per common share for the fourth quarter 2013 increased to $1.14 per share from $0.65 per share in the fourth quarter last year.
For the year diluted net income per common share increased 20.6% to $7.26 per share from $6.02 per share in 2012.
Now I'd like to review our performance by segment.
Sales for our Paint Stores Group in the fourth quarter increased 17.6% to $1.46 billion.
For the year net sales increased 10.9% to $6 billion.
Sales increases in the quarter and year resulted from higher paint sales volume across all customer segments and acquisitions.
Acquisitions increased net sales for the segment 7.5% in the quarter and 2.2% for the full year.
Comparable store sales increased 9.2% in the quarter and 7.8% in the year.
Regionally in the fourth quarter our Southeast division led all divisions followed by Midwest division Southwest division and Eastern division.
Fourth quarter segment profit for the Paint Stores Group decreased to $168.5 million from $181.5 million in the fourth quarter last year due primarily to a loss from acquisitions partially offset by higher year-over-year paint sales volumes.
Acquisitions reduced segment profit $40.4 million in the quarter.
For full year Paint Stores Group profit increased 14.9% to $990.5 million from $861.8 million in 2012.
The increase in segment profit for the quarter and year resulted from higher paint sales volumes that were partially offset by higher SG&amp;A expense and a loss from acquisitions.
Acquisitions reduced full year segment profit $43.1 million.
Segment profit margin for the fourth quarter decreased to 11.5% from 14.6% last year.
Profit margin for the full year 2013 increased to 16.5% from 15.9% in 2012.
Turning now to our Consumer Group.
Fourth quarter external net sales increased 6.6% to $272.6 million due primarily to higher volume sales to most of the group's retail customers and to acquisitions.
For the year Consumer Group sales increased 1.5% to $1.34 billion as a result of acquisitions which more than offset the previously disclosed reduction in business with a large retail customer.
Acquisitions increased net sales by 1.3% in the quarter and by 2.4% in the year.
Segment profit for the fourth quarter increased to $36 million from $23.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
For the year segment profit increased 11.9% to $242.1 million from $216.4 million in 2012.
In both the quarter and full year segment profit increased due primarily to higher sales volume and improved operating efficiencies partially offset by dilution from acquisitions.
Acquisitions reduced segment profit $2.3 million in the fourth quarter and $0.5 million in the full year.
Consumer Group segment profit as a percent of net sales in the fourth quarter increased to 13.2% from 9.1% last year.
For the year segment profit margin increased to 18% from 16.4% in 2012.
For our Global Finishes Group fourth quarter net sales increased 2% to $496.9 million and full year sales increased 2.2% to $2 billion due primarily to selling price increases and acquisitions partially offset by unfavorable currency translation.
Acquisitions increased the group sales in U.S.
dollars by 1.1% in the quarter and 1.2% in the year.
Currency translation decreased sales in U.S.
dollars by 0.2% in the quarter and decreased sales by 0.4% in the year.
Global Finishes Group segment profit in the fourth quarter increased to $37.7 million from $34.1 million last year.
For the year segment profit increased to $170.6 million from $147.2 million last year.
In the quarter and the year segment profit improvement resulted from increasing operating efficiencies and higher year-over-year selling prices.
Unfavorable currency translation and acquisitions reduced segment profit $400 000 in the quarter and $500 000 in the year.
As a percent of net sales Global Finishes Group operating profit was 7.6% in the fourth quarter compared to 7% last year and 8.5% for the year compared to 7.5% last year.
For our Latin America Coatings Group net sales decreased 4% to $222.2 million in the fourth quarter and decreased 0.4% to $832.5 million for the full year due primarily to unfavorable currency translation partially offset by higher year-over-year selling prices.
Currency translation rate changes decreased sales in U.S.
dollars by 9.4% in the quarter and 7.1% in the year.
Stated in U.S.
dollars Latin America Coatings Group segment profit in the quarter decreased to $17.9 million from $30.1 million last year due primarily to lower volume sales and unfavorable currency translation.
For the year segment profit decreased to $38.6 million from $81.2 million in 2012.
Brazil tax assessments in the second and third quarters totaling $31.6 million accounted for most of the reduction in segment profit in the year.
Unfavorable currency also contributed to full year profit shortfall.
Currency translation decreased segment profit $3.7 million in the quarter and decreased profit $5.5 million in the year.
As a percent of net sales segment profit was 8.1% in the fourth quarter compared to 13% last year and 4.6% for the year compared to 9.7% in 2012.
I'll conclude this review with a brief update on the status of our Lead Pigment Litigation.
In the Santa Clara County case involving public nuisance claims brought by 10 California cities and counties against 5 defendant companies Judge Kleinberg filed his final statement of decision on January 7 2014.
The decision orders 3 of the defendants Sherwin-Williams NL Industries and ConAgra to pay $1.15 billion into a fund to be administered by the Childhood Lead Prevention program branch a state agency that already receives funding from fees paid by major oil producers and paint companies.
The 10 plaintiff jurisdictions must apply for grants from this fund to use on lead education testing or abatement programs.
Each jurisdiction has a maximum amount of money that they can use from this fund based on the number of pre-1980 homes in the jurisdiction.
The ruling only applies to interior paint but does include encapsulation of some outside soil around homes.
The plan is voluntary for homeowners and will be administered on a worst-go-first basis.
Any money left in the fund after 4 years reverts to the defendants.
Final judgment was entered on January 27th.
From this final judgment we will file post-trial motions and our notice of appeal.
We expect to file our appeal to the 6th District Court of Appeals within the next 60 days and believe the process is likely to take 2 to 3 years.
There was also a recent development in the Bank's case which is a lead pigment case pending in Mississippi involving claims by 5 individuals for lead poisoning allegedly to have occurred while they were children at a head start facility.
The plaintiffs in this case alleged that Sherwin-Williams supplied paint containing lead to the facility for use on playground equipment.
The trial court originally granted Sherwin-Williams summary judgment based on a lack of product identification.
On January 16th of this year the Mississippi Supreme Court reversed the lower court's dismissal sending the case back to trial court for further proceedings.
Additional discovery and subsequent motions for summary judgment are expected and no timetable has been established for further proceedings.
That concludes my review of our results for fourth quarter and full year 2013 so I'll turn the call over to Chris Connor who will make some general comments and highlight our expectations for 2014.
Chris? Thanks Bob and good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us today.
The financial results in the press release we issued this morning as well as the numbers that Bob just walked you through adhere to generally accepted accounting principles for financial reporting.
That's the standard we prefer to follow because it's the most consistent and appropriate way to present our results.
Although we don't use non-GAAP or pro forma or adjusted financial metrics in our earnings releases in some cases you can get a clear picture of how the core business perform by backing out the extraordinary items.
The past 2 years are good examples.
If you strip away the impact from acquisitions tax assessments Department of Label settlement and various other one-time items we incurred over the past 2 years so we're comparing apples-to-apples our core consolidated sales increased 5% in 2013 and our core earnings per share increased more than 17% or $6.49 per share to $7.60.
This approach also helps to highlight the earnings leverage in our operating segments.
For example backing up the acquisitions from our Paint Stores Group organic revenue growth for the year was just under 9% and flow-through on operating profit was more than 36%.
On a GAAP basis both Paint Stores Group and Consumer Group established new high watermarks for full year operating margins.
Paint Stores' operating margin expanded 60 basis points to 16.5% and consumer segment operating margin increased to 18% from 16.4% last year.
Global Finishes Group operating margin also improved 100 basis points year-over-year while the economic challenges and currency headwinds Bob discussed were too much for our Latin American coating segment to overcome.
Although we anticipate further dilution from acquisition and integration this year we also expect continued strong earnings leverage on organic revenue growth.
We achieved 2 significant revenue milestones in 2013.
Consolidated net sales for the company eclipsed $10 billion and our Paint Stores Group surpassed $6 billion in sales.
Based on the midpoint of our sales guidance range for 2014 we'll add more than $1 billion in consolidated revenue this year the majority of which will come from organic growth.
For the first time in our history net operating cash exceeded $1 billion finishing the year at $1.1 billion which is at 10.6% of sales.
A portion of this increase came from our continued progress of reducing working capital requirements.
Our working capital ratio was 10.5% of sales at year end compared to 10.8% of sales at the end of 2012.
Once again if you back up the effect of acquisitions year-end working capital ratio would have been 10.0% and that would have been an all-time low for the company.
In 2013 our Paint Stores Group opened 82 net new stores and acquired an additional 306 locations under the Frazee Parker General Kwal and ColorWheel brands a total of 388 new locations.
The integration of these stores and facilities in our existing operations is proceeding on schedule.
We are delighted to welcome these outstanding men and women to our company and add these well-respected brands and products to our portfolio.
At year end our store count in the U.S.
Canada and the Caribbean was 3 908 locations.
In 2014 we intend to ramp up our new store openings to a range of 80 to 90 additional locations.
During the past year we hired 1 400 new college graduates into our respective management training program to bolster our store staffing improve our territory coverage and fill our store management pipeline.
Although these investments tend to drive SG&amp;A higher in the back half of the year new stores and service employees pay for themselves over a very short period of time.
At year end our total debt was $1.72 billion and cash on hand was $745 million.
We continue to manage our balance sheet in anticipation of closing the Mexican portion of the Comex transaction.
During the year we returned more than 90% of the net operating cash we've generated $974 million to be exact to shareholders through share repurchases and dividend payments.
In the fourth quarter we acquired 1.5 million shares of the company's stock for treasury bringing our full year total to 4.3 million shares an average cost of $178.90 per share and a total investment of $769 million.
At year end we have remaining authorization to acquire another 12.15 million shares.
We paid $205 million in cash to shareholders through quarterly dividends.
2013 marked our 35th consecutive year of increased dividends per share a string we intend to continue.
This year at our upcoming February meeting of the Board of Directors we will recommend approval of a payout rate for 2014 consistent with our policy of 30% of prior year's earnings per share resulting in an annual dividend of approximately $2.20 per share an increase of $0.10 -- 10% over 2013.
We begin each year with some level of uncertainty and 2014 is no exception.
Data on the U.S.
housing market had been mixed in recent months but we remain bullish based on current volume trends and feedback from many of our customers.
Likewise recovery in the domestic nonresidential construction market has been slow but we have seen some improvement in our sales to this segment nonetheless.
We expect this positive momentum in this market segment to continue as well in 2014.
Outside the U.S.
it appears likely that sluggish market conditions and currency devaluation in many Latin American countries will remain a challenge.
Modestly improving economic growth in Europe may provide some offset.
Our raw material basket has many moving parts as well but in total we believe there's some risk of modest inflation.
Propylene a key raw material feedstock has increased in successive months to $0.73 per pound today from the low $0.60 per pound range a year ago.
This will keep upward pressure on the price of monomers and latex in the first half of 2014.
Increases in the price of high-density polyethylene will affect the cost of plastic pails.
High-grade chloride titanium dioxide pricing held steady over the back half of 2013 but higher order volumes and lower inventories are driving factory utilization rates up which could result in some pricing traction by mid year.
Based on all of these factors we would expect average year-over-year raw material cost inflation for the paint and coatings industry to be in the low single-digit range in 2014.
With these factors in mind our outlook for the first quarter of 2014 is for consolidated net sales to increase 7% to 12% compared to last year's first quarter.
With sales at that level we estimate diluted net income per common share in the first quarter will be in the range of $0.95 to $1.15 per share compared to a $1.11 per share earned in the first quarter of 2013.
Embedded in this guidance is our expectation that Comex stores in the U.S.
and Canada will add approximately $97 million to $107 million to net sales and reduce diluted net income per common share $0.15 to $0.25 per share in the quarter.
For the full year 2014 we expect net sales will increase by 8% to 13% compared to full year 2013.
With annual sales at that level we estimate diluted net income per common share for 2014 will be in the range of $8.12 to $8.32 per share compared to $7.26 in 2013.
This guidance anticipates that Comex stores in the U.S.
and Canada will increase net sales by a low single-digit percentage in the year and reduce earnings per share in the range of $0.45 to $0.55 per share for the full year of 2014.
Again we'd like to thank all of you for joining us this morning and we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is -- comes from the line of Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Chris you mentioned the sort of upper single-digit low double-digit revenue base and also some raw material inflation.
Can you give us a sense of what pricing might do in 2014? Yes we can.
In fact we have announced some pricing to our stores that's what we typically comment on.
But we want to give you a little different feel for that this year.
And Sean maybe you can take the guide through that.
Yes this is Sean Hennessy.
And as you mentioned in the past we've been able to tell you when and how much selling price increases we have taken to the market.
Due to the integration of the 5 brands acquired through the Comex there are inconsistencies in when those things will occur that do not really -- do not allow us to answer the question on pricing the same way as we have in the past.
Our margin will be affected by the selling price increase that Chris just talked about and stores did go out in early January with some pricing.
But the annualization of Comex the foreign currency fluctuations raw material changes that are going on what we've thought of in the past we've only given guidance on the annual basis looking at the sales and to the EPS.
And just to give you some clarity on what's going to happen with pricing and how all this affects us is really to give you a gross margin range.
Our gross margins will increase this year but we still believe we're in that 43% to 46% range.
And this should tell you that we believe our total gross margin will be in the 45.5% to 46% range versus the 45.3% that we realized in the full year 2013.
The next question is coming from the line of Duffy Fischer with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to clarify on the comment that Chris made first.
The 36% incremental margins in Paint Stores excluding the acquisitions did I hear that right? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay very good.
And then if you look at the $40.4 million of loss from the acquisition in that segment can you break that down a little bit? How much was underlying business? How much was kind of inventory onetime step up or costs on the integration? I guess I'm just trying to get a sense what was kind of the run rate of the business? I think we've talked about close to breakeven as it was coming into the portfolio but just trying to understand the health of the businesses underlying that number? Yes and a couple of things there -- again this is Sean Hennessy when you take a look at the sales curve that they have they have a sales curve much like the Paint Stores Group for the second and third quarter the highest sales quarters.
So when you talk about annual might be flat but really when the fourth quarter is our toughest quarter because of the sales curve.
When you look at that $40 million approximately half of that was operating income normal operating income.
The other half was really onetime causes inventory step up other causes of expense that you mentioned.
So that was about half and half almost half and half is exactly.
And just to remind you when you look at that as well as we're talking about that that $40 million hit we also mentioned that Comex was $0.13 dilutive for the year.
And if you think where that $40 million segment was in the operating profit the net effect from Comex was positively affected by tax savings and those tax savings were due to the integration of contingent liabilities.
That integration was a positive $0.15 per share.
And so when you -- and really it really dealt a lot with the defined benefit plan.
Our tax rate was 30.7% for the year that we reported.
It would have been 32.1% really without that Comex and without that balance sheet integration.
And our fourth quarter tax rate was 22.2%.
It would have been 32.3% without the Comex.
So in a way that 40 that converts down to the $0.13.
When you look at Chris' comments that 45 to 50 mid point there is 50.
There it is $0.63.
And I know last quarter we've talked about the $0.60 to $0.65 dilution.
We did give you 20 -- that $0.40 in the fourth quarter and we just experienced $0.11 but that $0.15 tax savings actually it was -- we were not expecting to get that in the fourth quarter.
So we actually were expecting to get that in the calendar year 2014.
But we were able to accelerate that with the combination of defined benefit plan so it works out pretty well.
The next question is coming in the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Sean maybe you could just expand on the continued liability tax savings.
Is there any flow-through whatsoever into 2014 or was that all netted out in 4Q? Yes we ended up -- we were able to get 100% of it in the fourth quarter so that was nice.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on Latin America can you just give us a more granular picture as it relates to the major countries there? Is the weakness broad-based any impact on inflation from the currency devaluations in certain countries there? Sure Ghansham.
As we've commented in the past Brazil is the second largest country of revenue for the corporation Mexico would be third.
And those happen to be the 2 economies that were probably hit the most.
When we look at local currency performance for the business our sales were up modestly.
We held serve I guess is a good way to take a look at that as we went through the year.
We are not expecting to see a lot of turnaround in Brazil going forward and I think we still have these currency devaluations.
So Latin America has been the cycle for us.
We've had a solid 10-year run down there where we had relatively flat currency and we're able to make some good inroads and we're kind of going through the other side of that right now.
Our expectations as we gave guidance was that it wouldn't be a real help to the company next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Chris just to clarify that on Brazil specifically does this sort of paradigm right now just affect your organic growth initiatives down there? Not so much.
I mean those are long-term plans that we have in place.
So as you know we are continuing to open our own dedicated company facilities primarily in the northeastern part of the country.
We continue to support our dealer network and convert to a more dedicated dealer format.
So we haven't pulled back.
We rarely do in a downturn.
We keep pushing forward.
Our next question is coming from the line of Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You talked about or you can deduce from the press release that the revenues in Comex in the quarter were about $100 million.
Order of magnitude what are they in a seasonally strong quarter? I think when we've talked about this acquisition we had told you that at one point in time when the entirety of the acquisition was being discussed it's about a $1.5 billion transaction for the company.
We said 1/3 of that was approximately in the United States so $500 million for ease of math.
So $100 million fourth quarter.
And back to Sean's comment about the second and third quarters drive it.
We just gave guidance that the first quarter for Comex revenue would be again about $100 million in the midpoint of that so that all seems to kind of fit and tick and tie together Jeff.
So you're looking at about 20% in the fourth and third -- I'm sorry the first -- 20% in the fourth and the first 30% in the second and third.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then for my follow-up.
Pretty much every year propylene goes up in the first quarter of the year and then comes back down because refineries turn around and so do ethylene crackers.
So do you normally have some rise in your raw materials in your propylene-based raw materials in the first quarter and then they come off in the course of the year? Or now that the acrylics industry structure is a little bit tighter do they tend to stay a little bit higher? Sort of can you discuss the progression of the normal propylene-based raw materials? Yes Jeff this is Bob.
We've said in the past that typically it takes between 90 and 120 days for an increase in propylene to flow-through the acrylic chain and that's still the case.
So I guess that would be saying if propylene does follow its normal course and comes down after first quarter it's likely we aren't going to see a lot of upward pressure in the acrylics and the solvents.
But if it were to stay in the low to mid $0.70 per pound range we'd likely see some modest upward pressure primarily in acrylics in the middle part of the year.
The next question is coming from the line of Aram Rubinson with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Couple of things one I'm hoping you can clarify on the U.S.
in terms of the bid process to get a proxy for your backlog how things are looking there? And then I have a quick follow-up.
Yes I think that when you -- when we look at the activity that bidding activity we feel pretty good about it.
I think it -- occasionally you'll see some weather affecting daily sales.
But when you look at the demand we feel pretty good about what's happening in America in the United States.
LLC</strong> In terms of size of job as well any sense of whether that's coming from non-res or res or can you tell? Yes I think it's been pretty consistent Aram about the segments that we've commented on.
Residential repaint has been terrific.
And new residential construction we've commented on that as well.
Property management's doing well given the rebound in the multifamily housing.
So all those segments are doing well.
We're not the kind of company that has a backlog or we see forward orders I mean painting contractors walk in that morning we put paint in their truck and they walk out and get the job done.
So to Sean's point just kind of the flow and the rhythm and the feel of the business is very consistent with the guidance we've given.
Research Division</strong> And 2 quick housekeeping things can you give us a sense as to what share count you've got assumed in that EPS guidance for '14? And also Bob or Sean if you know often times at the end of the year you do a physical inventory adjustment and call that out in the K.
I didn't know if that figure was available for us.
As in the past when you take a look at guidance and you look at it we do have share buyback in our guidance not really going to share that number but we don't -- as we said earlier we don't usually go down the P&amp;L.
But we do have some stock buybacks we have uses of cash.
On the other number for that adjustment we don't have it right now in the physical inventory.
I know it's going to be in the K I just don't have it here in the room with me sorry.
And one more note on share count.
We ended the year with actual shares outstanding of 100 129 380 so that's the starting point.
The next question is coming from the line of P.J.
Juvekar with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> A quick question on the commercial market.
Can you talk about what kind of contract or project backlog are you seeing for this spring and how does that compare with last year? Yes I wouldn't describe the -- this is Bob again I would not describe the commercial market right now at this point as being significantly backlogged.
We are seeing a modest pickup in starts in the back half of 2013 which should translate to more paint projects by the back half of 2014.
That would be in the mid to high single-digit range.
So that the rebound in commercial construction has been slow to start we are seeing a little bit of momentum building.
I think the forecast for starts in 2014 are healthier than 2013 high single-digits.
Some people are even going out on a limb with low teens numbers.
But I think the good news in this is we're seeing more activity in the repaint market which implies higher occupancy rates in office retail and lodging and that should ultimately translate to higher square footage.
As a reminder commercial construction volume is still in the trough so we've got a long ways to come back.
Research Division</strong> And secondly on TiO2.
I think Chris you mentioned that producer inventories have come down.
So as you get ready for the spring season how do your inventories of TiO2 look like? And also you've been cautious on buying Chinese TiO2 in the past.
Where do you stand on that? In terms of our TiO2 inventory they remain extremely steady and in line with our kind of production processes throughout the course of the year.
We take the vast majority of this product in the United States in a slurry form.
It's not the kind of thing that we can load up on excess inventory and sit on it.
So we are at a pretty much a steady-state consistent inventory level based on the demand of production that we put on our factories.
We have been increasing our purchases of some offshore titanium mostly in the sulfite grade.
We see more of that emerging in our Latin American operations.
I think we've commented in the past that at some point in time perhaps 5% of our needs could be moved to that type and we're seeing some progress towards that.
Our next question is coming from the line of Charles Dan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I'm trying to understand if you guys are including higher gross margins in your guidance it seems like to get to your -- to the guidance you'd have to assume some pretty sharp increases in SG&amp;A or other costs in excess of what you've outlined for Comex.
So is that -- is there some reason why that's happening? Or any color that could help us understand the SG&amp;A ramp I think would be helpful.
I think we're continually -- we've continued to invest in the business invest in new stores.
I think we're going to open more stores in 2014 than in 2013.
So the people and the reps and the infrastructure there I think that we're adding to that that's going to increase the SG&amp;A.
And I think that we've continued to on the admin side continue to invest in IT projects that have allowed us to get our working capital down to an all-time low of net 10% and allowed the cash to go back over 10% of sales.
And think that those things are good investments that we're spending in SG&amp;A that are creating cash.
And so yes we're investing in this business but I think the number one reason we're going to have SG&amp;A growth next year is going to be the Comex acquisition.
And then secondly is the continuing building out of the store chain in our stores group.
Research Division</strong> Is there a significant amount of expenses related to Comex Mexico and your efforts there and maybe you could highlight that as well? No.
I think we've been pretty prudent there.
We do have ongoing expenses but I wouldn't call them material on our SG&amp;A base.
Research Division</strong> And then finally as a follow-up or housekeeping if you guys could give the change in gross profit by segment? Sure.
Okay.
And -- for the quarter? Gross profit...
Research Division</strong> Yes that would be great.
Consolidated was $128.7 million as you know Paint Stores Group was $80.9 million; Consumer Group $27.4 million; Global Finishes $8.6 million; and Latin America $6.4 million.
So I'll just give you the year-to-date so you don't have to do the addition there.
The full year 2013 consolidated $410.3 million; Stores Group $330.9 million; Consumer Group $47.4 million; Global Finishes $43.6 million; and Latin America was actually negative $28.8 million.
Our next question is coming from the line of Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> Just Sean on the SG&amp;A question again in the past you've always invested in the business and even have been proactive about investing ahead of revenue and I think that was the case in '13 as well.
But you've also been able to leverage SG&amp;A versus revenue.
So from a relative standpoint is your expectation of SG&amp;A is going up even -- maybe even talking about it with or without Comex? Yes.
I think that when we look at the 2013 back to your point and I'm just looking at this -- 2012 our SG&amp;A was 34.2%.
Without Comex this year we would have shown improvement on that.
And next year we're still going to show -- we'll show improvement on the core SG&amp;A.
And I'm trying to look at the metric that I can give you but no I think the core SG&amp;A will improve.
LLC</strong> And with Comex it would be up in terms of revenue? When you take a look at it yes it's going to be close to up.
It's going to be in that ballpark it's not -- for the full year.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then Chris I guess there's probably nothing specific you can share on Comex Mexico but any update on timing at least of news flow? Yes we'd be happy to comment on Comex Mexico we've continued to work on that.
And Sean maybe you can take the team through that.
We continue to believe -- at the very beginning I'd like to say we still believe this is going to be a very good acquisition for the company.
We'll continue to work on a process that would allow us to close this acquisition.
This process required us signing nondisclosure agreements with outside parties which limits what we can say but what we will say is we have an exclusive contract with the Achar family through March 31 2014.
We have crafted our final remedy and are prepared to present to the proper authorities.
We have not received a firm date of that presentation but fully expect it to occur in February with a response from the commission sometime after that but close to the March 31 date.
LLC</strong> And is it your expectation of that decision would then be final one way or another? That's why we used the word final remedy.
I think that this is our final bite of the apple.
Our next question is coming from the line of Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Sean just a clarification on the tax rate given the Comex U.S.
and Canadian distortions what is the tax rate that you've embedded in your earnings guidance for 2014 or range of tax rates? Yes.
We don't go down -- again we try not to go down the whole frame because there some -- we don't have 1 range we have multiple scenarios to get into a range.
But if you take a look at year-to-date without the Comex it would have been in that 32.3% range.
We've all constantly talking about that low 33%s.
And I think that you go back the last 5 years I think it's been in that low 33% type of range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question for Chris if I may I heard your comments regarding the California litigation or I guess Bob's comments here and the appeals associated with that.
How should we be thinking about funding of the $1.15 billion in terms of how it could possibly be split among the defendants and timing? And separate question do you have any other avenues of recourse beyond the appeals process factoring property owners for example? Kevin it's Bob.
On the first part of the question the decision by the judge the remedy is joint and several -- is a joint and several liability.
So it means that all 3 defendants are essentially equally responsible for the entire remedy.
He has given no indication how he intends to apportion the remedy across 3 defendants.
It's also our position that it's kind of a moot issue at this stage in the game because we don't believe we'll have to pay any money prior to the appeal process.
This is a mandatory injunction which we do not believe should require any appeal bond or anything of that nature.
As far as future actions with respect to factoring homeowners or anything like that we're not prepared to go into that at this point.
Our next question is coming from the line of Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> It looks like incremental margins in your Paint Stores Group declined pretty sharply on a sequential basis and year-over-year when you remove Comex.
Is there any seasonality in this or is there something unique just trying to get more color on what drove the decline in incremental margins.
Yes.
I don't know what number you're using for Comex margins but even with that the fourth quarter is always interesting because of LIFO the physical inventory adjustments that we spoke about before so a couple of years ago we were talking about this.
2009 our gross margin actually was 48.5% in the quarter because of some of these things that have occurred.
So there's different things that go on between 1 fourth quarter to another.
Fourth quarter is the toughest to look at.
I think to try to read to try to project anything in the future.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just as a follow-up I think at one time estimates the Sherwin's estimate at least for total gallons in the U.S.
was somewhere in the line of 630 million to 640 million in 2012.
Do you have an estimate or do you have an update for what you think it may have been in 2013? Nils this is Bob.
We think the market in 2013 probably grew in the 4% to 5% maybe 5.5% range.
And we base that just by looking at various public statements and public releases across the population of publicly traded companies that do significant architectural business in the U.S..
That feels about right to us.
The next question is coming from the line of John Roberts with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us a timeframe for getting the U.S.
and Canada Comex stores to the average Sherwin-Williams margins? And given the potential here that you might have to divest the wholly-owned Mexican Sherwin-Williams operations I don't know whether the nondisclosure will allow you to at least range that -- or size it for us? And is it above or below the average paint store margins? Just so you know first Mexico stores that you're referred to our operations are in the LACG segment they're not in the store segment.
Just want to make sure that's clear.
On the first question of what we've said is again that $0.60 to $0.65 and what we've said is in 2015 in the annual 2015 we think that the Comex stores will run at the 70% to 80% of where Paint Stores Group is at.
And then after that it will start to continue to improve from there.
And the Comex -- and the Mexican assets we're really again we're little -- we're under secrecy with the nondisclosure we really don't want to express what the remedy may or may not be and then also not going to give metrics to any possible remedy.
I think what's better course for us is that if we get approval we'll disclose all of those type of things to you.
And if we don't get approval we probably won't that's for sure.
The remedy will never be public.
Our next question is coming from the line of John McNulty of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Two quick points or questions.
On the $0.45 to $0.55 hit that you expect in 2014 from Comex in that can you give us some color as to how much of that is going to be onetime or kind of structurally working to fit the asset in versus kind of just the normal run rate for that business? Yes I think that 60% will be onetime hits and it will be in that range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that business is then running at a loss kind of -- or in your mind for 2014 is going to run at a loss the whole year? Right.
Because what happens is when you -- let's say you're going to -- you're living in the short term with the additional cost of possibly some plants and distribution centers those were considering part until we close them and taking the hit we consider that part of the ongoing op.
And that's where you start saying which bucket do you put it in.
But if you close the plant in September at the end of September then the first 9 months go into your first bucket of the operating margin and then the hit of closing plant goes into the extraordinary.
That answer would tell you that if we run that plant for 9 months that's in the normal not in the extraordinary.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
Fair enough.
And just then just one follow-up question.
If we back out Comex in terms of kind of what it did in the fourth quarter and then also kind of how it's going to impact 2014 it looks like you're guiding to 5% to 10% top line growth which normally based on kind of what Chris had talked about earlier in terms of leverage tax what have you should get you $1.25 to almost $2.25 of incremental EPS and that -- but your guidance really doesn't imply that when you kind of look at your core non-Comex-related business it looks like it's at the very low-end or even sub that.
So I guess what's driving that what's driving that level of conservatism in your kind of core platform? I will tell you this.
I would just say if you take a look at the core I don't think that a 5% gain has ever given us $2.25 EPS growth in a year.
And so when you look at the number that Chris gave you the $7.60 versus the $6.49 it's $1.11.
And so when you sit there and look at that $7.60 and I'm just going to add back the midpoint that's is -- use the midpoint $8.22 and $0.50 of Comex that takes you up to $8.72 from $7.60 that's $1.12 when you take a look at that so I think that's pretty comparable.
And I do think that in general I think that things are going pretty well.
I think $1.11 on top of $1.12 last year $1.12 versus $1.11 are pretty comparable.
And when you look at that sales gain just like this year we think that currency is still going to be a headwind and some of these countries are still going to have some problems.
Our next question is coming from the line of Ivan Marcuse with Keybanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions are answered.
I just have a quick one.
In the Global Group continuing to be fairly -- consolidation continues to move on.
Is there any opportunity for you to consolidate that market further? And then if you look at your European businesses I know that they're small relative but have you seen any stabilization to improvement going forward? Yes Ivan we have talked for a while with The Street about our strategy here.
We like these businesses.
We would look for opportunities to invest appropriately were there opportunities to present themselves we won't comment on any of that perspectively.
Europe had a good year for our Global Finishes business.
We're seeing some nice progress over there from the teams that we've put on the ground.
We expect Europe to continue to have profitable sales going forward.
And on your first question our operating profit in 2012 was 7.5%.
This year it was 8.5%.
So nice 1% gain on the ROF.
And as we've talked in the past we still think we can drive that to 12% so we think there's still big improvement in the future.
Our next question is coming from the line of Dmitry Silversteyn with Longbow Research.
A couple of questions.
First of all to follow-up on the last question.
Can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing in your Global Group businesses in terms of auto collision and industrial markets.
You mentioned that Europe was strong for your wood coatings business but can you talk about the other portions of Global? Yes so I think all 3 of these businesses ran pretty much at the same level.
You can see that the sales results here were below the company's consolidated numbers.
So a relatively soft sales year.
We've commented about soft economic environment some of the end markets that we sell products into are a little soft as well.
I think that when we take the market performance itself into consideration not concerned that we're losing share here but not exactly lighting it up either.
Going forward we're pretty excited about the winter we're having across the United States.
Automotive runs on collision repair business and so that should be a little bit of a tailwind for that team going into this year and I think we've had some nice wins on various accounts around the world in our product finishes businesses.
We'd expect them to have a little better year going forward next year as well.
So beyond that Dmitry not a lot more to comment on.
Okay that's helpful.
If you look at the Consumer Group it really had a nice turnaround as the year progressed.
It sort of started the year weakly and you have some losses of a business and then it seemed to well turned around by the end of the year.
Can you talk a little bit about sort of what you guys done to get that ship moving in the right direction and also what's your outlook for the consumer is for 2014 both in terms of not maybe the top line directionally and perhaps margin expectations.
So I'll take the business and the sales and we'll Sean comment on margin expectations for Consumer Group.
You're right the fourth quarter was terrific.
One of the best quarters we've seen in sometime.
And it was pretty broad-based across the entire customer segment.
The product lines as you know in our consumer business we have architectural paint but we also have aerosols and brushes and rollers caulks and sealants stains water protecting products and pretty much across the board all those business were going in a good direction.
I don't think that the fourth quarter is the precursor of things to come.
We've been consistent with our guidance that this is a low single-digit kind of growing business for the company I don't think we're expecting that we've reached a new kind of a plateau we're going to run at this level going forward.
But it was encouraging to see and I think one of our executives made a comment that when we get good quarters in consumer we'll take them we're glad for them.
Our expectations are that most of the headwinds that we've had here that have been kind of event driven lost the big accounts et cetera have all anniversary-ed they're all behind us.
So 2014 knock on wood might be one of those years that's a pretty normalized year and give us a sense of how the business can actually run.
Sean you want to comment a little bit on our margin expectations here? Sure.
Over the years we've continued to talk about that consumer can have -- their operating margins can be higher than stores but it's going to be more volatile.
And so when we get volume through and what's nice is there was volumes for the last couple of years we've had volume only going through from the stores group as Chris talked about the struggles on the external sales.
But when you get external sales like we have as well as the internal sales going through there consumer can really produce nicely for us.
And that's why we've always thought that the margins can be higher there but because of the choppiness of demand especially on the external side you're going to see it much more volatile.
So last year we hit 18% I think that it's a well-managed division that we've given some assets from the Comex grouping to them.
I think that they'll do a great job with those assets and I think that in the end you'll see margins higher than this.
I can't remember when stores groups' highest margin was 14.4%.
And someone said "Well are you ever going to beat that?" We've beat it a few times now the last 2 years actually.
And I think our Consumer Group we expect to go higher with some of these assets and add a little more volume.
Got it.
And just a couple of bookkeeping questions.
What's your CapEx and G&amp;A expectations for 2014? I think our CapEx is going to be somewhere in the $180 million to $200 million range.
And as we bring in some -- do some of these work and move some production around.
And our G&amp;A should be in the $35 million range up from around $29 million to $30 million they had this year.
And use those numbers they're not going to be materially off.
The next question is coming from the line of Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Bob I wanted to follow-up on your growth outlook for U.S.
architecture.
You talked about 5% 5.5% growth in calendar '13 with the pickup in commercial or nonresidential construction this year.
Would you expect that to accelerate? And then the follow-on to that is Paint Stores grew at almost 8% versus 5% market growth and obviously nonres is even higher proportion of contractor business so would you expect your Paint Stores Group sales to -- on a same-store sales basis to outpace the market growth even further in 2014? Don on the first part of the question if the rate of housing starts holds up and that would be a 10% to 15% increase year-over-year in the rate of housing starts and we see this high single digit acceleration in nonresidential starts with a commensurate amount of nonresidential maintenance and -- property maintenance activity it would be very easily -- easy to duplicate mid single-digit industry growth rate in 2014.
We have long said that our expectation for our Paint Stores Group is for growth in the range of 1.5x to 2x market rate.
And we think in that environment that's probably doable as well.
Our next question is coming from the line of Gregg Melich with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> The half of the $40 million of loss that you had in the quarter from the acquisitions the half that was impairment did that show up in the gross margin or SG&amp;A? I would tell you probably 65% 70% went in to gross margin and the remainder went to SG&amp;A.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then the second question was on the pricing.
I recognized it's difficult given Comex having a different mix.
But if you could just look at the old Paint Stores Group what do you think the pricing is? Yes I think that again because as time goes on there's customers that are going to go from the old to the new the Comex stores.
And I think that any metric we give you might give you a wrong indication Greg.
And that's what we're trying to walk away from this this quarter.
We might -- a year from now we might come back to the old way but right now we're -- with people going from 1 store to another it's -- any metric might give you the wrong indication.
Research Division</strong> I understand.
But so to maybe to get to the -- another angle about gross margin it looks like gross margins if you back out the DOJ settlement where really you only have 20 or 30 bps.
I guess why did the GM gains decelerate so much in the fourth quarter? Is there something else that going on that we need to be...
No.
I think that -- I think it was the Comex.
If you take a look at that piece that went through that onetime hit that went through gross margins that we just -- I just gave you I think should give you a pretty good idea that really gross margins didn't decelerate.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's the 65%.
Yes.
The next question is coming from the line of Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
Start it off with Sean I think around the time you announced the Comex acquisition I had asked about using the financing that you had instituted for repo if the deal didn't get done is that still your feeling? Yes.
But you can probably tell that we're close to having a final answer in this so we still have that cash on our balance sheet.
But if not we'll end up buying back stock.
Okay.
And then that 36% incremental margin I don't understand quite how you got to that.
But I do see if I back out the Comex impact on the paint stores in the quarter the segment got about a 16.6% margin can you sort of connect the dots there Sean between those 2 figures? Chuck do you have one other question I'll pull out that piece of paper.
All right.
And then the other question would be if you look at the approximately $20 million hit from Comex in the fourth quarter due to onetime items and once your forecasting for Comex's hit in the first quarter it looks like you're going to be spending more on onetime items perhaps.
And that the operations should already be showing improvement in the fourth -- in the first quarter of 2014 is that a correct conclusion to draw? Again that's why we put a little bit wider range on here it really depends on when we take some of these closing costs Chuck.
But the first quarter should be fairly consistent with the -- the first quarter should be fairly consistent.
But yes you're right when you back that out it's going to be slightly better than the fourth quarter with the 50-50.
Okay.
Have you announced any -- I think you've closed a couple of plants and a distribution center on Comex.
Have you announced any other facility shutdowns or integrations with existing Sherwin operations? We've announced 4 closings Chuck to date of the 8 that we had talked about that we acquired.
And not all of those are down or cost into the numbers yet but 4 have been announced.
So Chuck back to your other question if you take a look at the operating profit in the store group segment $990 million.
You add back the $43 million that we talked about the acquisition impact without that it would have been 1-0-3 -- call it 1-0-3-3.
You compare that that means that the PBT change is $171 000 855.
The sales without the Comex was up $476 million $171 million divided by $476 million 36.1%.
Our next question is coming from the line of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland research.
Two things first of all Sean you referenced just curious was there a LIFO charge that was material that impacted the 4Q Paint Stores profit? No but I think what happens is that when you start -- just look at the fourth quarter it might not be material.
But if you look at the change year-over-year because 1 year might be a hit 1 year might be a credit.
And those -- we true that up in the fourth quarter.
So even though LIFO might be a credit for the year you might have a debit there because of the way you accrued it in the first 3 quarters.
So was there a material year-over-year change in how that influenced the 4Q number? I don't have that exact number but I would say -- I was trying to answer the question about why specifically the fourth quarter isn't as pure as the other 3 quarters so I don't think LIFO is that material between one or the other.
And then secondly Comex have owned these stores for a while now it seemed like they were losing market share and money before you acquired them.
Obviously closing facilities helps on the money side.
But in terms of the market share in those stores how was sales growth performing in those versus the core and how do you feel about the trajectory of market share in that business? Yes Eric we've done a lot to stabilize this business since acquiring it.
As an example a number of these stores did not have a full complement of management inside.
Sales rep territories were open.
Stores were struggling to get inventory when we had acquired them.
All of those fixes have been made and made quickly.
And we're seeing a stabilization of the existing customer base through these stores.
We're every bit optimistic that these things are going to run in line with the other stores inside the districts that they're joining.
And so the business is doing fine from that regard and we expect it to get better as time goes on.
The next question is coming from the line of Richard O'Reilly with Revere Associates.
On the Paint Stores Group margins if we exclude the loss the acquisition loss it looks like the margin if I did my math right was about 14.3% or slightly down from a year ago which is a surprise because of the higher volumes.
Can you expand that or was the benefit of the volumes all showing up in the Consumer Group? You're talking about the quarter correct? For the quarter yes.
I think when you look at it without the acquisitions just from the quarter like we did with Chuck you add the $40 million back you're at $208 million that would tell you that we were at 12.3% and last year we're at 14.6%.
And I would just say it had to do with how some SG&amp;A rolled in.
I think when you look at the Stores Group especially the way new stores rolled in a little more heavy in the fourth quarter than it was in 2012.
Okay fine.
Timing of course.
Okay.
And the volume gain the Consumer Group has benefited from the volume gains in the paint business that's part of it right? Yes yes.
Okay fine.
Okay.
Second question on your inflation outlook.
A year ago you said it was also going to be up low-single digit what did it work out to be for calendar '13 do you have an idea? Richard we think it's pretty stable year-over-year.
And TiO2 was down a little and the rest of the basket was up slightly.
Okay fine.
So a year ago you are too pessimistic and now you're looking at the things about the same way.
Okay fine.
Our next question is coming from the line of Charles Dan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the gross profit guys.
On the Lat Am segment did you say that the profit was $6.4 million increase or decrease? And I will tell you that in 10 seconds here.
I've got to double check because they way you asked the question.
Research Division</strong> I didn't mean it to sound like an accusation.
No it was a decrease.
There are no further questions in queue at this time.
I would now like to hand the floor back over to management for any concluding comments.
Thanks again Jesse.
Let me conclude this morning by asking you all to save the date of Thursday May 22nd on your calendars.
This is the date we'll host our annual financial community presentation at the Intercontinental Barclays Hotel in New York City.
The program as usual will consist of our customary morning presentations with questions and answers followed by a reception and lunch.
Again the date is Thursday May 22nd and we'll be sending out invitations and related information in the weeks ahead.
I'd like to thank you all for joining us again today and thanks for your continued interest in Sherwin-Williams.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining The Sherwin-Williams Companys Review of the First Quarter 2014 Financial Results and Expectations for the Second Quarter and Full Year.
With us on todays call are Chris Connor Chairman and CEO; Sean Hennessy Senior Vice President Finance and CFO; Al Mistysyn Vice President Corporate Controller; and Bob Wells Senior Vice President Corporate Communications and Public Affairs.
This conference call is being webcast simultaneously in listen-only mode by Vcall via the Internet at www.sherwin.com.
An archived replay of this webcast will be available at www.sherwin.com beginning approximately 2 hours after this conference call concludes and will be available until Wednesday May 7th at 5 pm Eastern Time.
This conference call will include certain forward-looking statements as defined under U.S.
federal securities laws with respect to sales earnings and other matters.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A full declaration regarding forward-looking statements is provided in the companys earnings release transmitted earlier this morning.
After the review of first quarter results we will open the session to questions.
I will now turn the call over to Bob Wells.
Thanks Jaycee.
In order to allow more time to questions weve provided balance sheet items and other selected information on our website sherwin.com under Investor Relations First Quarter Press Release.
Summarizing overall company performance for the first quarter 2014 versus first quarter 2013 consolidated net sales increased 9.2% to a record $2.37 billion due primarily to higher paint sales volume in our Paint Stores Group and acquisitions.
Acquisitions increased net sales 4.5% in the quarter and unfavorable currency exchange decreased consolidated net sales 1.9%.
Consolidated gross profit dollars increased $103.1 million for the quarter to $1 065.9 million.
Gross margin increased 60 basis points to 45% of sales from 44.4% in the first quarter last year.
Selling general and administrative expenses for the quarter increased $105.4 million over first quarter last year to $884.1 million.
As a percent of sales SG&amp;A increased to 37.4% in the first quarter this year from 35.9% last year.
Interest expense increased $1.1 million compared to the first quarter last year to $16.4 million consolidated profit before taxes in the quarter decreased $2.3 million to $166.1 million due primarily to the loss from acquisitions and unfavorable currency translations.
Acquisitions and unfavorable currency reduced net income in the quarter by $19.2 million and $5.3 million respectively.
Our effective tax rate in the first quarter this year was 30.5% compared to 31% in the first quarter of 2013.
For full year 2014 we expect our effective tax rate will be in the low 30% range compared to last years rate of 30.7%.
Consolidated net income decreased $728 000 to $115.5 million net income as a percent of sales was 4.9% compared to 5.4% in the first quarter last year.
Diluted net income per common share for the quarter increased to $1.14 per share from $1.11 per share in 2013.
Looking at our results by operating segments sales for our Paint Stores Group in the first quarter 2014 increased 16.4% to $1.36 billion from $1.17 billion last year.
Comparable store sales or sales by stores opened more than 12 calendar months increased 7.9%.
More than half of the Paint Stores Groups sales increase was due to higher organic paint and equipment sales volumes across all end markets.
Acquisitions increased net sales $7.2% for the segment.
Price mix had a negligible impact on sales in the quarter.
Regionally in the first quarter our Southwestern division led all divisions followed by Southeastern division Midwestern division and Eastern division.
Sales and volumes were positive in all four divisions.
Segment profit for the group increased $16.6 million or 12.8% to $146.3 million in the quarter as higher paint and equipment sales volumes were partially offset by the loss from acquisitions and higher SG&amp;A spending.
Acquisitions reduced segment profit to $16.7 million in the quarter.
Segment operating margin including acquisitions decreased to 10.8% of sales from 11.1% in the first quarter last year.
Turning to the consumer group first quarter sales increased 5.4% to $325.3 million due primarily to acquisitions and the timing of seasonal shipments to some customers.
Acquisitions increased net sales 3.9% in the quarter.
Segment profit for the consumer group decreased $2.9 million to $51.1 million in the quarter from $54 million in the first quarter last year.
Profit was negatively impacted by higher distribution costs to maintain service levels and by a loss from acquisitions.
Acquisitions reduced segment profit $600 000 in the quarter.
Segment profit as a percent of external sales decreased to 15.7% from 17.5% in the same period last year.
For our Global Finishes Group sales in U.S.
dollars increased 2.2% to $497.6 million in the quarter due to primarily to selling price increases partially offset by lower paint sales volumes and unfavorable currency translations.
Unfavorable currency decreased net sales for the segment 1.6% in the quarter.
First quarter segment profit stated in U.S.
dollars increased $12.6 million or 37% to $46.5 million due primarily to improved operating efficiencies and selling price increases.
Unfavorable currency translation reduced segment profit $1.8 million in the quarter.
As a percent of sales segment profit increased to 9.3% from 7% in the same period last year.
For our Latin America Coatings Group first quarter net sales decreased 10% to $182.4 million due to unfavorable currency translation and lower paint sales volumes that were partially offset by selling price increases.
Currency translation rate changes decreased sales in U.S.
dollars by 16.5% in the quarter.
Stated in U.S.
dollars segment profit in the quarter decreased to $10 million from $20.8 million last year.
Segment profit was negatively impacted by higher raw material costs and unfavorable currency translation and lower year-over-year sales volumes.
Currency translation decreased Latin America segment profit $3.8 million in the quarter.
As a percent of net sales segment operating profit was 5.5% in the first quarter compared to 10.3% in the same quarter last year.
Turning to our balance sheet our total debt on March 31 2014 was $1.71 billion including short-term borrowings of $87.4 million.
Total debt on March 31st last year was $1.7 billion.
Our cash balance at the end of the quarter was $366.5 million compared to $613.9 million at the end of the first quarter 2013.
In the first quarter 2014 we spent $29.4 million on capital expenditure depreciation expense was $41.4 million and amortization expense was $7.6 million.
For the full year 2014 we anticipate capital expenditures will be approximately $190 million to $200 million; depreciation will be about $170 million and amortization approximately $30 million.
I'll conclude this review with a brief update on the status of our Lead Litigation.
In the Santa Clara County case involving public nuisance claims brought by 10 California cities and counties against 5 defendant companies judge Kleinberg entered his final judgment on January 27th.
From this final judgment Sherwin-Williams NL Industries and ConAgra filed motions with the trial court for a new trial and to vacate the judgment.
Following briefing and argument on those motions they were denied on March 25th.
Our notice of appeal was filed on March 28th.
The record has not yet been transmitted to the court of appeals nor has a briefing schedule been set.
We continue to believe a decision by the court of appeals will take approximately two to three years.
That concludes our review of first quarter results for 2014 so I will turn the call over to Chris Connor who will make some general comments and highlight our expectations for second quarter and full year.
Chris?  Thank you Bob.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us today.
Before I comment on the quarter let me take a few minutes to summarize where we stand with respect to the Comex Mexico acquisition.
As you know March 31st was the date after which either parties could terminate the purchase agreement without cause.
Throughout the month of March Sherwin-Williams worked closely with Comex and the Mexican competition commission in an effort to secure approval to complete the transaction.
We presented a detailed remedy proposal to the commission and as of the end of the month they had not ruled on our remedy.
On April 1st the seller notified us that they believe we breached our obligation to use all commercially reasonable efforts to secure regulatory approval in Mexico.
In response to this notification on April 3rd we filed a complaint to the New York State Court seeking a judgment that we are not in breach and we notified Comex that we terminated the purchase agreement.
This action was entirely defensive on our part.
We could not allow an allegation and breach sustain without an appropriate response.
At this point we do not know how long this legal process will take but both parties agreeing the termination is final and were moving on.
After 18 months of effort behind this acquisition it is an understatement to say that were disappointed with the conclusion.
On a positive note the portion of the transaction we did complete 306 company operated paint stores and 8 manufacturing sites in United States and Canada are on track to deliver outstanding returns to our shareholders over a relatively short timeframe.
During the quarter we made good progress in our efforts to integrate this business into our existing paint stores platform and supply chain operations.
We announced the consolidation of four manufacturing and distribution facilities and the headquarters building.
On March 1st all of U.S.
store locations converted to The Sherwin-Williams point of sale system which will significantly improve store operations including color matching and inventory management.
The Canadian stores will convert to this POS platform in May.
As a result product availability has improved dramatically in these stores and our field management teams are working closely together on product cross training and improving territory coverage.
Our first quarter guidance included acquisition dilution in the range of $0.15 to $0.25 per share for the Comex acquisition.
Actual dilution of $0.12 per share reflects the budgeted amount of one-time integration cost and better than expected operating results for these stores in the quarter.
Our core business is also off to a good start.
If you back out the impact of the acquisition consolidated sales grew 4.7% in the quarter and profit before tax increased 10%.
As a percent of sales operating profit and profit before tax increased 30 basis points and 40 basis points respectively.
Even with dilution from the acquisition our consolidated gross margin increased year-over-year for the eighth consecutive quarter.
The lions share of this improvement came from our Paint Stores Group.
Organic sales grew 9.2% operating profit without acquisitions increased 25% and core operating margins increased 160 basis points.
Incremental margin on the core business was 30%.
During the quarter Paint Stores Group added 17 net new stores and our plan calls for a full year store openings in the range of 80 to 90 net new locations.
Today our total score count in the U.S.
Canada and the Caribbean stands at 3 925 stores compared to 3 529 one year ago.
This year-over-year increase in store locations both organic and acquired along with the investments we made in store and territory staffing in the back half of last year resulted in 80 basis point increase in segment SG&amp;A as a percent of sales.
Without the acquisitions SG&amp;A as a percent of sales decrease 10 basis points in the quarter.
Consumer Group got off to a respectable start from a revenue respective with organic sales up 1.6% in the quarter but the harsh winter weather over the first two months of the year disruptive raw material deliveries that made it difficult to move finished goods across the northern half of the country and the cases of southern half for that matter.
This drove supply chain cost up resulting in negative flow-through for the group in the quarter.
Sales momentum remained strong in the domestic paint and coatings market particularly in the contractor segment.
And Europe is showing early signs of recovery but economic conditions in Latin America have continued to deteriorate.
Both our Global Finishes Group and Latin American Coatings Group felt the impact of currency devaluation and weakening market conditions throughout this region.
While Global Finishes Group was able to offset the drag from Latin America with growth in other regions our results in Latin America Coatings Group reflected the impact of soft demand in currency in the quarter and we expect these conditions to persist over the balance of the year.
Our ongoing efforts to improve working capital efficiency continue to bear fruit.
Working capital decreased as a percentage of sales to 11% from 11.7% in the first quarter last year.
If you back out the effect of the acquisition working capital sales would have been 10.4% at quarter end.
The reduction in working capital more than offset the incremental cash used for integration activities in the quarter.
As a result net operating cash in the quarter improved by approximately $8 million compared to our first quarter cash performance last year.
During the quarter we acquired 1.3 million shares of the company stock with treasury at an average cost of a $197.22 for a total investment of $256.4 million.
On March 31 we had remaining authorizations to acquire 10.85 million shares.
Yesterday our Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.55 per share up from $0.50 last year.
We remain optimistic that U.S.
residential demand for architectural paint strengthen as we get into the prime painting season were encouraged by early signs of a more robust commercial recovery.
This growth will be offset to some degree by challenging conditions in Latin America.
Our outlook for second quarter 2014 is for consolidated net sales to increase 8% to 14% compared to last years second quarter.
With sales at that level we expect diluted net income per common share for the second quarter in the range of $2.80 to $3 per share compared to last years record $2.46 per share.
This guidance includes our expectations; the U.S.
and Canadian stores acquired from Comex will increase net sales by $125 million to $135 million and reduce diluted net income per common share by approximately $0.10 per share in the second quarter.
For the full year 2014 we expect consolidated net sales to increase over 2013 by 8% to 13%.
With annual sales at that level we are reaffirming our expectation for full year diluted net income per common share to be in the range of $8.12 to $8.32 per share compared to $7.26 per share earned in 2013.
This annual guidance includes our expectation that the Comex stores will increase net sales by a low single-digit percentage in the year and reduce diluted net income per common share by approximately $0.45 to $0.55 per share in the full year of 2014.
Again thanks to all of you for being with us this morning on the call.
And now we would be happy to take your questions.
Thank you.
At this time we will be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is coming from the line of Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Bob.
Chris I dont want to steal your [thunder] from your meeting here in a month or so but I am just wondering as you guys look at your ability to continue to get some price and lever the store base can you give us some sense of where the goals are on the gross margin line? And then do you think its possible to leverage your SG&amp;A the sales a little bit more aggressively and maybe get it closer to 32% level for [annual] basis you had during the housing boom? Thanks Bob.
Yes we will be talking about all those topics when we come to see the entire investment community in New York next month.
And specifically to your question on price in SG&amp;A as you know we did comment in the last quarter call that we did take price to the market in the first quarter.
Those price increases are going in I think typically [good] for us so nothing to report there out of the ordinary.
As you know weve given guidance which is somewhat unusual for us that our gross margin this year will come in probably in the 45.5% to 46% range up from 45.3%.
So you can read into that that the price effect is taking place and holding and delivering the expected results.
And I think the SG&amp;A numbers are going to be a little bit cloudy this year.
As weve pointed out the jump on that is almost 100% attributable to the acquisition rolling in.
When we back that out for example and start were seeing SG&amp;A leverage we would expect that the year goes on to continue to see that SG&amp;A leverage as sales ramp up.
And then if I may you mentioned the price in the store base can you talk about price to the consumer channel and obviously that takes a little more conservative effort with your channel partners.
Does that likely to be as robust not as robust not at all should we see that development through the year? Bob it also has been our practice we havent commented on pricing activity so much outside of the stores organization.
Wed basically just kind of give you a sense of where were managing that inside that platform; we tend to keep those discussions confidential so nothing comment on pricing outside of the stores organization today.
All right (inaudible) thanks Chris.
Good efforts thanks Bob.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of John McNulty with Crdit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Great thanks for taking my questions.
So a question with regard to Comex U.S.
it sounds like the revenues are coming in maybe better than you expected and certainly the dilution in the first quarter was a lot lower than what you were looking for.
And you have maintained the full year expected dilution in that $0.45 to $0.55 range.
So I guess Im wondering what may be got pushed out or if there is some chunkiness too with it that maybe we need to think about or is it just kind of conservative outlook in terms of what the dilution maybe for the year? This is Sean Hennessy great question.
When we take a look at the first quarter yes sales were slightly above what we had thought but the loss was dramatically lower.
And we were talking on the first three months ago when we reported the full year that we thought that 60% of the loss in 2014 would be coming from one time only and 40% would be operational.
This quarter it was 80% operational and 20% one-time.
So you can see the one time hit did not occur in the first quarter.
And I like your word the quarter is little bit choppy because as Chris mentioned we have announced four not all the hits have occurred into the real life due to those closings.
So as those come in its a little choppy trying to determine exactly which quarter those will come in.
But we still feel that this time were going to say with the guidance for the year on both the $0.45 to $0.55 and the $0.60 $0.40.
Okay.
No fair enough.
And then just one last question on the non-residential construction side can you walk us through maybe what you're seeing in the markets there I know there are some expectations that things are starting to warm up.
But have you started to see it? And what are you seeing there? Yes John this is Bob.
We look at published data sources just like everyone else and its been somewhat mixed in recent month.
The one benefit of controlled distribution is that we get timely robust feedback from our contractor customers and a lot of this feedback lately has been about bidding activity and order volume.
And sufficed to say commercial contractors are clearly busier and more optimistic than they were this time last year.
Great.
Thanks very much for the color.
Thank you John.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys good morning.
Good morning Ghansham.
Hey you call that the weather impact in the consumer side from a manufacturing perspective what about the Paint Stores business as a whole in terms of feedback from your customers.
Does that have any impact on your same-store sales does it still very solid.
But just curious as to what your customers feedback was? Yes Ghansham as the quarter unfold and we certainly had days and weeks of rough weather in certain geographies.
I think the interesting impact was we can certainly see that in our daily sales reports.
But typically that buy would rebound relatively quickly.
So when we did have good weather wed have strong days in the back side of that.
And the kinds of projects that were involved with these products typically don't get deferred if you miss the painting window in February because store is closed or traffic system -- contractors can't get to job site doesn't tend to get delay for quarters or years it gets right back on it.
So certainly we had some days so we were low on revenue but overall I think the quarter was pretty steady in terms of the demand that we saw.
So Chris just to kind of take that one step further and just kind of comment on North American housing as a whole from your perspective do you see any material change just given the increase that people talk about in interest rates and home prices and the potential impact on housing are you seeing any impact from that whatsoever?  Johnson this is Bob again.
The March housing starts and permits were released yesterday and it was interesting although the top-line was considered a bit of a miss versus consensus.
Single family starts were really solid they were up 6%.
We think thats the sign of latest strength in the market and we also believe that inventory levels of both new and existing homes are well below where they should be at this point in time if there is any pickup in rate of sales in the spring they are going to be building.
We do not believe that interest rates are significantly affecting affordability so we would expect some pick up in the rate of sales in the spring.
Okay thats helpful.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of P.
J.
Juvekar with Citigroup.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Its Dan Jester on for P.J.
Hi Dan.
In Latin America is the weakness that you are seeing uniform across all the end markets or are there differences in architectural protective marine and sort of your product finishes businesses?  So geographically Dan the weaknesses unfortunately are on two biggest economies Brazil and Mexico architectural and both of those categories is probably leading the weakness but we are also not seeing much pick up in the protective and marine segments either.
So pretty soft market conditions in both of those economies.
And then of course as we commented throughout currency in both places is not helping either.
Okay.
And then on your U.S.
store count its typically I think youre back-end loaded in terms of the opening but 17 stores has been a lot more even you had in the first quarter over the last couple of years.
So are you doing anything different in terms of your store openings? Yes.
Thats insightful comment youre absolutely correct.
In fact when we kind of look at the rolling 12 month new store count were up 95 net new stores this quarter part and parcel that SG&amp;A kind of moving a little bit in the wrong direction as we get excited about the coming demand and getting on top of it.
This is actually the preferred path for us.
We would rather not be so back-end loaded on new store openings.
We dont control that as much as the municipalities and the building permit cycle that developers face trying to get these retail stores open.
So I think this is nothing more than the start just aligning a little better performance getting these stores open.
And as we commented were pretty much on target here to get this 80 to 90 store count in this year.
Great thank you.
Thanks Dan.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
And good morning everyone.
You called out raw materials in Latin America and kind of didnt mention anywhere else.
So was it just that you couldnt price it down there or did you actually see inflation everywhere else or what is your outlook? Raw material comment in Latin America is that so much of that raw material based on there is U.S.
dollar denominated.
So our raw is relatively flat and benign everywhere including Latin America its the local currency conversion rate thats the headwind for those guys.
Okay.
And just a follow-up can I just ask you about share repurchases and with Comex Mexico not going to happen now should we anticipate you making a lot of progress towards the remaining authorization over the balance of the year? I think that if you take a look at the long term history of company we believe that we like to run the company at a one-time term debt to EBITDA.
I think that weve been higher than that as well as we dont believe in holding cash.
And weve been -- have cash balances all the way up to $800 million to $900 million.
So now that -- and we held that for the Comex Mexico so that we have a proper liquidity at closing.
I think over the next period of time you are going to see us get back to those metrics.
So I would tell you void of an acquisition you are going to see us buyback stock.
Okay.
That sounds great.
I will pass along.
Thanks Vince.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Aram Rubinson with Wolfe Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks good morning.
I appreciate the call.
Can you spend a little time talking to us about the DIY part of the market? I know you guys have gone ahead with the [perks] program wondering if its kind of a strong emphasis for you.
And also on the DIY so curious what your consumers your customers on the consumer side of the business youre doing with inventory whether theyre kind of pulling it in or send it back? Yes.
So the DIY business there I mean its always been an important part of our marketing platform here and through our stores organization continues to be something were trying to build.
To put it in perspective our business ratio through those neighborhood network of paint stores is about 85% professional 15% DIY.
So while an important segment its fairly de minimis compared to the contractor focus.
I wouldnt characterize that a DIY program so much as a [perk] program we do have a preferred customer arrangement that we build up by just capturing customers email contact information and clearly doing a much better job of connecting with them on a very digital format that are available to us.
As weve said repeatedly now for I think the last 2.5 years our DIY sales have been terrific they have been outpacing the market and slowly gaining a little share.
And as a result of that were pretty pleased with that performance.
We give some credit to our relationship with HGTV which has been a terrific relationship with the company attracting a younger consumer to us.
In terms of our Consumer Group customers and their exposure to the DIY market and whether or not they are adjusting inventory I would expect the answer has to be no.
I mean most of these folks are very sophisticated retailers have great systems in place much as we talked about working capital management and the systems we put into help us manage that.
I think they are doing the same.
So long gone the days where inventories spike up and down based on some kind of a term being offered et cetera.
So I think they are in pretty good inventory shape and we would expect it to season ramps up so (inaudible) purchase this.
Chris can you also just clarify on price realization for the increase you took earlier in the quarter? Can you just remind us kind of how that price realization is going and you mentioned pricing mix didnt have much of an impact on Q1 but how we should think about that for the next few quarters would be great? And again this is Sean.
But we feel pretty good about our price realization and thats why when you see the gross margins up $0.06 for the first quarter.
And I think earlier this call Chris again reaffirmed that the gross margin forecast we have 45.5 to 46 versus last years 45.3 were not changing that.
So we feel the realization has been good.
Okay thanks guys.
I appreciate it.
Thank you Aram.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Trey Grooms with Stephens.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Trey.
Back on the pricing just to follow-up on that so you are seeing good pricing realization but the addition of Comexs 300 plus stores is that going to impact the roll out or implementation of pricing at all as we look through this year and whats the timing? The answer to that is yes and I think thats why we really changed what we did for pricing this year versus in the past.
We used to give you a percentage and a date and because this was an integration between just not only the core but really five different businesses that needed to be integrated.
There was going to be some timing different and thats why we switched from giving you a date and a percentage that we are going out an effective rate that we saw that we are going to eventually achieve.
We went to a gross margin forecast where we went from 45.5 to 46.
And those were the reasons why those are part of the reason why is because what you just referred to.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And then on the cost front you mentioned not seeing any real raw material inflation.
But can you speak specifically I know at one point maybe late last year you guys thought that there was that we could see or there was possibly the potential for some modest TiO2 inflation this year.
Has that outlook changed since we are not really seeing much yet? And if not could you kind of give us some ideas of your thoughts around that? Yes Trey this is Bob.
We think for the first quarter specifically for the industry raw material inflation across the entire basket was likely flat to very low single-digits.
Any year-over-year change in the quarter was most likely from plastic packaging due to as we referred to in the last call the run-up in the high density polyethylene and also monomer and polymer pricing might have been a little inflationary due to higher energy cost in the quarter.
TiO2 still remains the moderate risk for the back half it has not moved in the first half of the year.
But even if it does move its unlikely to push the raw material basket for the full year above say 2% inflation.
So our outlook of flat to low single-digit is still solid.
Okay.
And then just one more still cut on cost run I mean you guys were kind of moving I guess outside of North America youve been moving some of your facilities over to sulfate in some markets.
Can you give us update kind of where you are in that effort? Thank you.
Yes Trey I think we had commented that certainly as new products and technologies are being worked on and were exploring all the different types of titanium packages that might help us get to the market.
We have seen some switching outside the U.S.
Those activities are continuing to move.
I dont think those are going to be dramatic shifts for us but its helping a little bit around the margins.
All right thanks a lot.
Good luck guys.
Thank you Trey.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Ivan Marcuse with Keybanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thanks for taking my questions.
First on the Comex North America so it sounds like things are proceeding fairly quickly.
So if you look at 2015 and with getting the point sales in all your product constraint involved would you expect those stores to be up closer to the company average or it would be a slower ramp up than that once all the restructuring is done? Right.
What we have said is that next year when we will take a look at 2015 we believe that the operating margin will be in the high single-digits.
So when you look at the sales next year its going very well right sizing the SG&amp;A and so forth the gross margins are moving in the right direction.
So we still feel pretty good about that forecast.
Great.
And then could you just give you usually do the gross profit and SG&amp;A dollar change for the segment? I have the gross profit here Paint Stores Group $104.7 million the gross profit increase consumer was $1.4 million increase Global Finishes were $5.6 million increase and Latin America was actually a reduction of $6.9 million.
On the SG&amp;A I dont have those right now.
I could back it in (inaudible) appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thanks Ivan.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
And thanks for taking my question.
Good morning Nils.
Now that you have Comex in the business for about two quarters or so are you noticing anything different about the pricing strategies between the five different brands that you can optimize? And how are you how do you feel about getting them fully integrated into the legacy Sherwin strategy? Yes Nils not so much differences between the five brands but clearly a difference between the way that their organization approached us in a way that the Sherwins core business.
We referenced the ramp up to our POS system effective March 1 for these stores and thats really the start of the process it starts with good data collection.
So we can actually look at trends and look at specific customer segmentation volume sets et cetera.
So all that tooling will be helpful for our field teams in coaching our new members of the team here and how to appropriately price these products.
And so I think one of the previous callers asked about price increases here as well too.
And these are all the things that will be improving.
Sean just gave guidance that we expect next year that these stores will be in the high single-digits in terms of operating margins as a percent of sales.
And were ramping them up fully to the mid-teens that stores runs at this will be part of that mix getting that pricing levered properly and implement it.
So work to be done here still.
Understood understood.
I know that you probably don't want to think about Mexico too much anymore but I'm curious to this whole process if maybe you've learned something about how you might change your approach to the customer in that country now? Yes.
We are happy to continue to think about Mexico we have a good business down there and we were excited for a long time to have a better stance there obviously it didn't work out that way.
I think that remains to be seen and that's probably broader for future conversations to talk a little bit about what our strategy is.
Right now we're just trying to [execrate] ourselves from this particular situation we're in.
Got it.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Nils.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes good morning.
What was the magnitude of the elevated distribution cost that you had in consumer please? So just to give you while Sean is taking the few numbers up here Kevin think about the fact that fundamentally [butane] is made from water and when half of the United States is under the pour of vortex we were shifting a lot of pain around this country and zero degree temperatures below zero temperatures.
And so resting heated trailers having to put some frozen loads in the heated warehouses to get them ready checking the R&amp;D and some of these things to make sure they are still viable so those are some of the factors that led to these costs.
Okay.
And if you look at these costs if we backed those costs out consumer margin in the first quarter would have been flat to up slightly year-over-year so we did report 15.7 and so when you look at that you can do the math but thats where we are at thats where the costs us.
Okay that helps.
And then second in the Latin American segment what was the magnitude of the volume decline and the foreign exchange pressure any addition insights there that would be helpful.
Again as we mentioned currency actually was effective fell by 16% so we reported a negative 10 with a positive 6 has really driven this Chris said by the Brazilian real last year was around 2 to 1 this quarter remaining at 2.38 to 2.40 to 1 but when you look at the volume we were negative in the volume for the Latin America group and we really dont share volumes by segment specially in Latin America.
Okay.
And then maybe for Chris apologies if I missed it but I want to ask you about M&amp;A broadly and what you are seeing on the landscape specifically whether or not you are seeing anything that might still at least partially the void from termination of Comex Mexico if you look at a year or so lets say? Hey Kevin weve been clear with the street about our interest and intentions to continue to build out our architectural coatings platform throughout the Western Hemisphere.
There are number of terrific companies in all those geographies including Canada United States throughout all of the Latin American region and time will tell whether any of those come to fruition on that.
So this is just this was one opportunity; we have other ideas that well be working out if times with us.
Likewise we continue to be focused on building out our industrial coatings platform globally and there are some interesting technologies there as well too.
So nothing more to report on that.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Kevin.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Chris question on where do you think we are in the coatings cycle? If I look at your numbers lets say 4% growth in the overall market last year for U.S.
architectural you get another 4% this year youre knocking on the door of 700 million gallons.
I know in the past youve talked about 700 750 million gallon market is being normalized.
So I just wondered if you rethought that.
Those numbers are pretty accurate Don.
I think weve been showing that chart now as part of our industrial deck for a couple of years.
You will recall that the peak of that market was 800 million gallon and there are some folks commenting that they think that thats the more realistic number that the market can get to in coming years.
As you know we tend to be little more conservative on that.
So I think you are pretty much on target.
Were moving up comfortably now into the mid 600 million gallons for the industry this will be another year of progress.
So pushing in that 700 with another call it 50 to 100 million gallons of our incremental growth for the industry you have to go.
Okay.
And then Sean a housing keeping question what share repurchase is baked into your guidance and what was the carry out number of shares at the end of the first quarter?  At the end of the actual share count on May 31 2014 was 99 651 879 that prefer not to give you you can imagine each and every quarter weve purchased stock so its very likely were going to be buying stock over the next three quarters and I will tell you that but I will prefer not to give you the guidance on what our share count is for the year-end.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Don.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Just first question Chris I think you noted as you expect when weather got better you saw you gave sales improve in the regions that were affected.
Any chance you could give us a sense of how they 8% same store sales trended through the quarter? Dennis.
March was the best quarter or best month we had in the quarter or January February about even.
Okay.
And then kind of on the same lines I think you mentioned southwest being the best region east being the worst how much variation is there between those two? Dennis this is Bob.
The two strongest divisions were in the double-digit the other two were in the single.
Okay.
And then last one Chris I think on the global Latin American business when we look at ex-acquisitions ex-currency the growth rate was the best of we have seen I think in about four five quarters.
But the commentary and I think some of the commentary maybe this is the difference volume and price was more negative and just wondering if thats a trend that's accelerating would you give any concern or is there something maybe that we're missing at high level deal.
Yes so are you just speaking about our Global segment Dennis? Yes I was actually looking at both together kind of that concept of Global and Latin America.
Yes.
So I think the we would agree with the Global business what we're feeling that we're on a good trend line here we have solidified a lot of the operations in Europe particularly in the back of our acquisitions there several years ago.
Asia is showing some nice improvement from really really low market share.
So we've got a lot of room to go there but we're pleased with the process improvement we've seen there you recall this as a segment that was running at around 3% ROS and now we're pushing up close to targets we told that we can get it to which would be into the low double digit.
So that's tracking well.
And we think if that can't continue to add some tailwind to the company's numbers going forward.
Latin America not so much and I think we commented that we expect that we're going to be in for tough (inaudible) here for the rest of the year given the currency and the market environment.
Okay.
Okay that's helpful.
Thank you guys.
Thanks Dennis.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Dmitry Silversteyn with Longbow Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Dmitry.
Just I wanted to -- a lot of my questions have been answered but wanted to follow up on a couple of things.
First of all in terms of integrating that the Comex operation you talked about closing the four plants in the one headquarters building.
Are you pretty much done with the asset footprint rationalization or is there still more to go? There is a few more to go.
Okay.
So are you going to be retaining any of the plants that you bought or is there enough room in your plants to relocate the production there and just streamline the operations to that extent? Yes we havent specifically commented on that.
I think as time unfolds we will be in a better position to share that with you.
Okay alright.
In terms of Latin America and the significant margin deterioration you have seen there and profits dollar decline obviously a lot of it has to do with foreign exchange what are your expectations for sort of the margin recovery trajectory of that business is that going to be in 2014 or is it all related to [Finch] coming back?  Yes I think that before we give you any type of guidance for the full year we would like to see another quarter.
I mean we just have gone through one quarter.
At the beginning of the year our expectations were if you remember we had a one-time hit in our mine which was the Brazilian [fund that] situation.
But without that our margins were still -- our operating margins were still strong.
At the beginning of the year we thought that we were going to have improvement or at least be flat I would say we would like to have seen other quarter but we are not as optimistic about having improved margins as we were three months ago thats for sure.
Okay.
To follow up on that question in the past in other businesses and other regions we have seen companies respond very aggressively with price increases in situations where devaluations of currency was to the extent that we have seen in Latin America are you sort of moving along that thought path or are you just concerned to sort of wait around and see if the real and the other Latin American currencies will come back?  Dmitry if I just go back to the total our sales were down 10% after currency and currency was 16%.
So we were up 6% in local currencies.
And if you think about weve really have told you that our volume was down so prices 6 up at least 6 plus but our volume is down.
So weve been moving prices as aggressively as we can.
Some of the governments in South America have started to put pricing limits on so we have to get approval from the governments.
And were being as aggressive as we can to get pricing in South America.
Got it.
Sean thank you.
And then last question in terms of your share buybacks I mean I know you dont want to give a number for share count at the end of the year but just in terms of sort of releasing the cash that youve been holding for Comex deal now and looking to redeploy toward share buybacks are there any thought being given to sort of accelerated share buybacks or are you still going to be opportunistic and kind of [keel] throughout the quarter or throughout the year? We really did -- weve really done a lot of accelerated stock repurchases 10 years ago 8 years ago.
About 4 years ago the volatility of our stock as well as a lot of other company stock really improved that ASRs really didnt that were not in your best interest.
I would tell you that the volatility in our stock is tremendously lower.
I think that were interested in getting the stock the greatest effect at our share count.
So yes were evaluating the ASRs at this time.
And I think that we want to be in a situation where we can do -- if we do an ASR we want to be opportunistic of our stock to become more volatile again.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thanks Dmitry.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Jay McCanless with Sterne Agee.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Jay.
I wanted to ask first and I apologize if you already answered this.
Did you give any timing for the Comex bridge of contract suite and if there is going to be any cost impact?  We did comment that we have no idea what the timing on that will likely be and we made no comment about the cost impact.
Okay.
Second question if you look at the promotions for the Paint Store Group public promotions have those increased versus what you were doing last year and did that have any impact on margins on a year-over-year basis?  No our promotional schedule for our Paint Stores team has been pretty consistent now for a number of years.
They do have these big super sale events around important weekends in the paint season as they start to ramp up but from a day-to-day comparison year-to-year as well as the discount comparison from year-to-year Jay those have been very consistent.
Okay.
Last question on Latin America I know a lot of people talked about it but if we think over the next year to two years given what especially in Brazil where it seems like things are not getting better anytime soon does this give you an opportunity to be a buyer down there if conditions do worsen or is the better opportunity maybe to pull back just if you could give us one to two your outlook for that market for [sure one]? Yes.
So our thoughts on M&amp;A obviously are always long term and we think the long term demand for the kinds of products that we would like to be purchasing and adding to our platform are strong.
So where appropriate targets to emerge in Brazil or anywhere throughout Latin American region that we thought we could acquire and improve and enhance their contribution to our earnings growth we would be interested in doing that.
So just too speculative to comment any further on that at this point.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Jay.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Matt McGinley with ISI Group.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
My first question is a follow-on with some of the comments you made about the Global segment and the margins.
And youve had tremendous operating efficiency in that segment in this first quarter here.
You had very strong margin growth but pretty weak unit growth.
My question is was there something unique about the first quarter that enabled you to get such strong operating margin expansion it wouldnt be relatable to the rest of 2014? First of all the Global Finishes Group really recorded solid sales growth in North America Europe and Asia.
And when you look at the scale we have in North America gallons gone through our footprints our imprints in North America gives us a greatest flow through.
So that was nice.
But they also when you look at their Latin America it was a significant drag in the quarter and they also were affected by that currency.
So gallons going through our North America footprint are more efficient.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then my second question is on the -- a follow-up on comments you made on Paint Stores Group.
In prepared remarks you said that you realized price but the mixed impact was so negative.
Can you help me understand like what happened with that mix that caused the price increases you have to have a muted impact on your total top-line for that Paint Stores Group? I just dont remember us making that comment.
I will not say that comment is accurate.
Okay.
So pricing was positive in the quarter? Yes.
Okay.
And there was not a negative mix impact? No.
No there was not.
Alright.
I guess I need to get my ears checked before you two.
I think we said the effective pricing was modest on sales.
Okay.
That makes sense.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thanks Matt.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
Two things; first of all in the Comex business Im wondering if you could characterize the market share performance youre seeing of their business kind of before and after? And how that is progressing and where you expect that to go?  Yes.
So Eric I think its typical with these types of controlled store acquisitions.
We commented that this was a struggling asset for the parent company.
Their sales have been declining when we acquired them.
They have improved slightly from that position but they are still a little bit negative.
So with the market thats rebounding in gallon growth you have to assume that there is some concern if they are losing share.
Interestingly now with these POSs in place we can kind of track who those specific customers are.
And so a lot of that share transfer has been going from their store locations to ours.
And that will be important part of this process for us going forward.
I can say with great confidence that in all the markets that we have acquired these stores the company is not losing share just maybe seeing a little bit of erosion in the acquired store format.
As you look forward do you think this is sustained throughout the year or can you see a path or investments that you are making that should allow their growth to be similar to the market at some point in 2014?  Weve already seen in a relatively short period of time that trend line moving positively in a very quick fashion.
It comes from better inventory in the stores and enhanced and improved associated product line ups that we have been rolling into their store locations as well including some of our own brands for the applicators case and point.
So our expectations are that these stores are going to go positive as the year unfolds.
And then secondly I appreciate that a component of the incremental SG&amp;A investment has been the timing of the new store investments but away from that Im interested in how youre thinking about the incremental SG&amp;A that you are investing in the business this year to allow you to participate in the improved market growth or gain market share.
Can you just talk a little bit about where are you spending money away from new stores and where we are in the continuum of that incremental SG&amp;A spend? Yes.
A couple of years ago I remember mentioning to you Eric actually you asked the question one of the other big issues that were spending is some IT projects.
And as we continue to roll out our global Oracle platform early next year well have all of South America Asia as well as the United States.
And so once we hit there I think were in pretty good shape with IT.
But those investments are actually helping us with our working capital.
And you can see the results in our working capital.
Usually the first quarter is one of the highest working capital as a percent of sales quarters we have and were at [10.4] without the Comex 11 and last year were at 11 7.
So some of these investments are not just for market share but the majority of them are because of new stores and so forth reps and so forth.
But I would say IT is probably the other one that is really driving some of this cost.
A lot of those costs are pretty flat across the year.
And so our first quarter being the lowest sales quarter those costs provided by the lowest sales quarter has the greatest impact on the SG&amp;A as a percent of sales.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks Eric.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Jeff Zekauskas with JP Morgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
Because of the timing of price increases in the stores division should prices rise sequentially in the second quarter as you more fully implement whatever you raised in the first quarter? Yes yes they will Jeff.
Okay.
And secondly were your volumes flat to up in the consumer division? Volume wise they were up slightly.
Were up slightly.
And then lastly your sales forecast for the second quarter is 8% to 14%.
Why so wide?  I think it really comes down to Latin America Group and the currency and trying to figure out exactly what that currency is going to happen and thats probably the biggest determination of the wide range.
Okay.
Great thanks very much.
Thanks Jeff.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Jaideep Pandya with Berenberg.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes thank you and congrats on the great results today.
I have two questions; first one is on your gross margin and may be focused on the Paint Stores really.
I know you dont disclose this but if you look at the previous peak and compare it to in the next couple of years that weve had towards the 800 million gallons mark can you tell us what has really changed i.e.
have you actually structurally improved in gross margin considering also the fact that maybe some of the input cost should be relatively in your favor with all the capacity that is coming into U.S.
and if you gained share if you have improved your price per gallon would be very curious to know that? And then the second question I have is on your industrial coatings franchise.
What are you really structurally doing to improve this in terms of market share? Are you targeting organic growth levers or are you also looking at some acquisitions to strengthen your franchise in marine protective et cetera? Thank you.
And again this is Sean Hennessy.
And I'll take the first question about the gross margin and structurally where are we.
I think that overtime we use to talk about a range of 41 to 44 we talk about 43 to 46 we're near the peak again.
And in fact we are saying that for the year we're going to be at 45 to 46.
Overtime we believe that range will grow for a lot of the things that you just mentioned.
We think that we continue to come out with new products that are higher gross margin and then efficiencies.
So I think that our Consumer Group overtime has done a great job of lowering our conversion costs lowering our warehouse costs lowering our logistics costs.
So those two things when you look over a five year period I mean you look at the amount that new products have continued to help our gross margin.
We think that's going to continue and that's why we continue to try to develop new products.
And structurally we took advantage when the market did crash when the 800 approximate million gallons a year down to about 575.
We did close some plans and some warehouses that are least efficient.
So as that market comes back and we are seeing it that we're actually producing those products in lower cost plants.
And to the second part of your question Jaideep the industrial coatings franchise really is benefiting now from organic growth.
There was a substantial M&amp;A activity probably up to three years ago; trading the platform we needed in various geographies around the world.
But as we have seen the significant profit leverage and the sales revenue market share growth is coming now from the businesses we have.
We have commented a couple of times during the call about continuing to be on the hunt for appropriate acquisitions in this space but for the last couple of years has been mostly organic performance.
Thank you.
Thanks Jaideep.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Richard O'Reilly with Revere Associates.
Please proceed with your questions.
Thank you gentlemen good afternoon at least good afternoon here.
Is the acquisition contribution is that 100% from Comex or is there something else in there?  Its 100% Comex.
We have annualized all of their acquisitions.
Okay.
The reason I asked so some of it is showing up in the Consumer Group business till then?  Yes consumer did pickup a piece of that business both most notably dug back and some dealers in Canada and in the United States so they also picked up a piece of that Comex acquisition.
The reason I ask is the 4.5% is about $97 million of sales if I did my math which I think would have been at the low-end of your forecast.
So I guess I am confused.
You said it was doing better than you had to what top-line and I guess I am a little confused with the numbers?  Yes we gave a sales range in the first quarter and if you look at the midpoint I think I answered it because I assume that he was speaking of the midpoint not the high-end of the range.
Okay fine.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thanks Richard.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of John Roberts with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Good afternoon.
Could you comment on the sales trends and some of the leading indicator things like spray guns ladders less consumable oriented items? Yes.
Weve got a good quarter John in those categories as well (inaudible) obviously for us is always one of the leading indicators of [gaining] contractor confidence and just as weve been talking about strong sales performance in the stores these categories have been up double-digits as well.
So just adding to the comment that Bob added about since the thing that these anecdotal information we get from seeing these folks in our stores every day.
Would that tend to your drag on your margin? So back to the next question you had earlier.
I would have thought consumables like paint would have been more weather impacted and maybe some of the more leading indicator things people would buy anyway in anticipation when the weather would break so that would actually be a negative mixed effect to have the ladders and [stray] equipment and so forth to outperform paint.
No most of those sales start to come in around this time of the year March and April.
This is when we typically see what we call pro-day or pro-show events happening from both children as well as all the other people in this place.
We commented that March was a strong month for us in terms of rebounding in the quarter so there was not substantial mixed shift away from paint and towards these types of products.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
Thank you.
We have reached the end of our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Wells for any additional concluding comments.
Thanks Jaycee.
As a reminder to everyone thats still on the call our annual financial community presentation is scheduled for Thursday May 22 which is going to be held at the Intercontinental Barclays Hotel in New York City.
The program will consist of our customary morning presentation and with questions and answers followed by a reception and lunch with company management.
If you have not signed up and would like to attend registration is still opened.
Send me an email at rjwells@sherwin.com and I will reply with a link to our registration site.
On a final note our offices will be closed tomorrow in observings of Good Friday.
So I will be returning calls over the balance of today and on Monday.
Thanks for joining us today and thank you again for your continued interest in Sherwin-Williams.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude todays teleconference.
Thank you for your participation.
And you may disconnect your lines at this time.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining The Sherwin-Williams Companys Review of the Second Quarter 2014 Financial Results and Expectations for the Third Quarter and Full Year.
With us on todays call are Chris Connor Chairman and CEO; John Morikis President and COO Sean Hennessy CFO; Al Mistysyn Vice President Corporate Controller and Bob Wells Senior Vice President Corporate Communications.
This conference call is being webcast simultaneously in listen-only mode by Vcall via the Internet at www.sherwin.com.
An archived replay of this webcast will be available at www.sherwin.com beginning approximately two hours after this conference call concludes and will be available until Thursday August 7th 2014 at 5 pm Eastern Time.
Following the company's review of the second quarter financial results and outlook for the third quarter and full year we'll conduct a question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the call over to Bob Wells.
Thanks Jessie and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
As you just heard we've made an important addition to our earnings conference call lineup.
Beginning with this morning's call John Morikis our President and Chief Operating Officer will be participating in our earnings conference call each quarter.
Many of you had opportunities to speak with John over the years at our Annual Financial Community Presentation.
He has a comprehensive knowledge of our operating divisions customers suppliers and our industry in general and because most of his discussions surrounding our earnings releases involve these topics it's only natural to include john in the conversation.
We think you'll find his perspective on the state on the industry and our company very valuable.
I am going to turn the call over to John in just a moment but before I do let me remind you that this conference call will include certain forward-looking statements as defined under U.S.
federal securities laws with respect to sales earnings and other matters.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A full declaration regarding forward-looking statements is provided in the companys earnings release transmitted earlier this morning.
In the interest of time we provided some balance sheet items and other selected financial information on our website under sherwin.com Investor Relations Second Quarter Press Release.
With that let me turn the call over to John to review our financial results for second quarter.
Thanks Bob.
It's a real pleasure for me to take part on our call this morning and let me add my thanks to all of you for joining us.
The press release we issued this morning summarizes a very solid second quarter for Sherwin Williams.
We continue to see positive momentum in most areas of the business and we clearly had momentum in large part to our consistent focus and prudent investments made over the past five years.
There are still some areas where we face challenges but the progress we've made so far in this recovery and the bullish signals we are getting from our customers give us confidence that our momentum is sustainable.
I'll begin by highlighting overall company performance for the second quarter 2014 compared to the second quarter of 2013 then comment on each reportable segment.
Consolidated net sales increased 12.1% to a $3.04 billion driven primarily by strong performance in our Paint Stores Group and acquisitions.
The Comex acquisition added 4.6% to net sales in the quarter while unfavorable currency translations decreased consolidated net sales 0.9%.
Consolidated gross profit dollars increased $176 million year-over-year to $1.4 billion and gross margins increased 80 basis points to 46.3% of sales from 45.5% in the second quarter last year.
This gross margin improvement was primarily the result of better operating leverage from higher production and distribution volume which more than offset the anticipated gross margin drag from the Paint Stores acquired from Comex.
Selling general and administrative expense for the quarter increased 15.8% to [$969.2 million] [ph].
As a percent of sales SG&amp;A increased 31.8% in the second quarter this year from 30.8% last year.
Higher SG&amp;A spending in the quarter reflects our continued investment in new stores and sales territories plus incremental SG&amp;A from acquisitions.
Interest expense for the quarter was $16.4 million an increase of $1.3 million compared to the second quarter last year.
Consolidated profit before taxes in the quarter increased $48.3 million or 12.7% to $429.2 million.
Our effective tax rate in the second quarter this year was 32.1% compared to 32.5% in the second quarter of 2013.
For the full year 2014 we expect our effective tax rate to be in the low 30s compared to last year's 30.7%.
Consolidated net income increased $34.2 million or 13.3% to $291.4 million.
Net income as a percent of sales increased to 9.6% compared to 9.5% in the second quarter last year.
Diluted net income per common share for the quarter increased 19.5% to $2.94 per share including a $0.06 EPS loss from the U.S.
and Canada assets acquired from Comex compared to $2.46 per share in 2013.
Looking at our second quarter results by operating segments Paint Stores Group had another strong quarter.
Segment sales increased 17.2% to $1.88 billion and comparable store sales sales by stores opened more 12 calendar months grew 9.8%.
Comp store sales growth accelerated 190 basis points sequentially from first quarter 2014 and 280 basis points year-over-year.
The rate of sales growth increased sequentially in every customer segment.
Acquisitions added $103.7 million or 6.5% of sales in the quarter.
Regionally in the second quarter our Southwestern division led all divisions followed by our Southeastern division Eastern division and Midwestern division.
Paint Stores group segment profit for the quarter increased $42.9 million or 12.9% to $375.9 million as higher paint sales volumes were more than enough to overcome a $10.4 million loss on the acquired stores.
Segment profit as a percent of sales decreased to 20% from 20.7% last year but if you back out the effect of the acquisition segment profit margin increased to 21.7%.
During the quarter we opened 16 new stores bringing our year-to-date total to 33 new locations.
At quarter end our total store count in U.S.
Canada and the Caribbean was 3 941 compared to 3 542 locations at the end of the second quarter 2013.
98 of the 399 incremental stores were opened organically since the end of the second quarter 2013.
This year our Paint Stores Group plans to add approximately 80 to 90 net new store locations.
Consumer Group also turned in a solid performance for the quarter.
Sales increased 10.1% to $433.4 million from $393.7 million last year.
Acquisitions accounted for roughly half of the increase while our domestic wood care and building materials business and Ronseal and Altax wood care businesses in Europe accounted for most of the organic sales improvement.
Segment profit for the consumer group increased $13.4 million or 17% to $92.5 million in the quarter driven by higher sales volumes improved operating efficiencies and a profit contribution from acquisitions of $2.7 million.
Segment profit as a percent of external sales increased to 21.3% from 20.1% in the same period last year which is gratifying to see following the softer profit performance in the first quarter.
For our Global Finishes Group second quarter sales in U.S.
dollars increased 6.1% to $544.6 million due to higher paint sales volumes and selling price increases.
Most of Global Finishes Group's domestic business strengthened in the second quarter but this improvement was partially offset by continued weakness outside the U.S.
particularly in Latin America.
Unfavorable currency translation had minimal impact on sales in the quarter compared to last year.
Segment profit in U.S.
dollars increased 0.7% in the quarter to $54.9 million from $54.5 million last year.
These results include charges of $4.5 million related to the exit of our business interest in Venezuela.
Unfavorable currency translation rates change reduced segment profit by $600 000.
As a percent of net external sales Global Finishes Group segment profit was 10.1% in the quarter compared to 10.6% last year.
Our Latin America Coatings Group continues to operate in a very challenging economic environment.
Second quarter net sales for the group stated in U.S.
dollars decreased 8.9% to $181.2 million.
Volumes in the quarter were negative and unfavorable currency translation decreased net sales by 11.3% both of which were mitigated to some degree by selling price increases.
Segment profit in the second quarter stated in U.S.
dollars increased to $5.7 million from $856 000 in the same period last year.
In the second quarter 2013 we incurred a charge of $11.8 million related to a Brazil tax assessment.
In the second quarter this year lower volume sales increased raw material cost and unfavorable currency translations were only partially offset by selling price increases.
Currency translation decreased segment profit $2.9 million in the quarter.
As a percent of net sales segment operating profit was 3.1% in the quarter compared to 0.4% in the second quarter of 2013.
Although our Latin American Coatings Group results for the quarter and year-to-date are disappointing we're committed to extending our presence in this important region and we are dedicated and working with all of these sources and expertise required to succeed in that effort.
Turning briefly to our balance sheet our total debt on June 30 2014 was $1.69 billion including short-term borrowings of $64.7 million.
Total debt on June 30 2013 was $1.69 billion.
Our cash balance at the end of the quarter was $267.2 million compared to $741.1 million at the end of the second quarter 2013 and $356.5 million at the end of last quarter.
In the first six months of 2014 we spent $66.9 million on CapEx -- capital expenditure depreciation expense was $83.5 million and amortization expense was $15.1 million.
For the full year 2014 we anticipate capital expenditures for the year will be approximately $190 million to $200 million; depreciation will be about $170 million and amortization will be about $30 million.
That concludes our review of results for the second quarter of 2014.
So I'll turn the call over to Chris Connor who will make some general comments and highlight our expectations for the third quarter and full year.
Thanks John and good morning everybody.
Let me begin by saying how pleased I am to have John with us on the call this morning.
I am sure you'll find him to be very insightful addition to our conference call team both today and in the years ahead.
At the midway point in the year we are encouraged by how 2014 is shaping up.
More than once in John's comments you heard him refer to the positive momentum in our business.
Sales and volume growth began the year at a respectable pace and it appear to be picking up steam as the year progresses.
Consolidated sales growth in the second quarter increased 280 basis points sequentially and June was our strongest month so far.
Domestic spray equipment sales perhaps an unscientific but nonetheless reliable leading indicator of paint sales robust throughout the quarter.
As John indicated most painting contractors including many who work in the non-residential markets are feeling very bullish about their order books going forward.
Consumer group had another good sales quarter and Global Finishes is posting strong year-over-year volume gains in many industrial coatings categories.
Consolidated gross margin also showed significant improvement both sequentially and year-over-year.
This is a function of volume-driven operating leverage but also of stable raw material cost.
Early in the year we identified titanium dioxide as an inflation risk in the second half.
However it was pretty apparent that the major chloride TiO2 producers have not yet succeeded in implementing price increase announced in the first two quarters.
As I mentioned in our first quarter call both of the outward pressure on industry raw material baskets is coming from high density polyethylene which is driving up cost of plastic packaging.
We've also seen higher year-over-year pricing trends in other raw material feed stocks such as crude oil natural gas and propylene ethylene and tinplate but so far these are not effective raw material cost we are maintaining our outlook for a relatively stable raw basket for the balance of the year.
In the first six months of 2014 we generated $332 million in net operating cash an increase of $30 million compared to the first half of 2013 driven by higher six month net income.
Although working capital is a slight use of cash in the first half which is entirely due to the accelerating pace of sales growth our best measure of working capital efficiency the ratio of working capital to sales decreased to 11.7% of sales from 12.0% in the second quarter last year.
During the quarter we acquired 2.03 million shares of the company stock with treasury bringing our total year-to-date repurchase activity to 3.33 million shares at an average cost of $200.15 per share and total investment of $665 million.
On June 30th we had remaining authorization require 8.83 million shares.
Yesterday our Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.55 per share up from $0.50 last year.
Our confidence in the domestic building and remodeling markets continues to grow and we expect non-residential to play and increasingly important role in driving future paint and coating demand.
Many of the industrial segments also appear to be gaining momentum.
These positives will be offset to some degree by persistent challenging conditions in Latin America.
Based on this outlook we expect third quarter consolidated net sales to increase in the range of 9% to 14% compared to the third quarter 2015.
With sales at that level we expect diluted net income for common shares for third quarter to be in the range of $3.15 to $3.25 per share compared to last year's $2.55 per share.
Guidance for the third quarter includes our expectations that the Comex acquisition will increase net sales $120 million to $130 million and reduce diluted net income for common share by approximately $0.05 per share in the quarter.
For the full year 2014 we expect consolidated net sales to increase 8% to 13% compared to last year.
Although our sales expectations have not changed since our first quarter release we are raising our expectations for full year diluted net income per common share be in the range of $8.50 to $8.70 per share compared to $7.26 per share earned in 2013.
Included in this full year guidance is our assumption that the Comex acquisition will increase net sales by a low single-digit percentage in the year and reduce diluted net income per common share $0.35 per share.
The change in our full year EPS guidance was driven in part by lower than expected dilution from the U.S.
and Canada Comex business from our original midpoint of $0.50 per share to our current expectation of $0.35 per share dilution.
Integration of these businesses into our Paint Stores Group and Consumer Group is progressing ahead of our original expectations.
Were on schedule and on budget with respective supply chain consolidation plans and performing better than planned from an operating profit standpoint.
More importantly we are very pleased with a level of talent enthusiasm and commitment we see in the men and women to join Sherwin Williams through this acquisition.
This above all will pay dividends for years to come.
Again wed like to thank you all for joining us this morning and now wed be happy to take your questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen at this time we will be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is coming from the line of Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes Chris.
Just wondering you know whats making you more optimistic about the second half outlook because it appears even  post you changing your Comex guidance that youre looking to about $0.23 improved earnings despite a similar sales outlook.
Your contractors as you indicated seem pretty optimistic yet the housing data still seems somewhat mixed so just wondering if you can reconcile those two conflicting items.
Yeah Don.
I think thats a good point about the conflicting data were seeing out of some of the housing numbers.
We just were commenting about the most recent information.
It seems that from quarter-to-quarter we have starts up permits down and the exact opposite the next quarter.
I think were still fairly bullish on the need for improved housing starts to get up to a more sustainable number.
But dont forget that a solid 75% to 80% of all these architectural coatings are being used to maintain existing structures.
And I think therein is the momentum that were feeling as John commented about the anecdotal evidence were getting from our contractors.
We just think the second half is going to be strong.
And then just a clarification on your same store sales growth of 9.8% what was the price volume mix? How much of that first quarter price increase that you posted did you start to realize in the second quarter? You know that price increase is going well then -- this is Sean Hennessy -- and when you do we dont really break out all those different factors but the majority of our selling price -- selling increase was volume.
Thank you.
Thanks Don.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks very much.
Chris you mentioned Comex was -- the integration was going faster than you expected and that provided some earnings leverage.
Can you talk more specifically is that because you restructured contracts; took other cost out what exactly has accelerated the benefit there? Yeah.
I dont think its in any restructuring of contracts per se.
[There are variable] [ph] contracts in a business like this when youre running your own dedicated store business.
I think were just getting better operating leverage for the company.
Raw material cost implementation of some of the shutdown activities have gone well ahead of schedule lower than expected cost impact.
I think we have commented the sale of this business is still lagging what were seeing in our core business.
So its mainly on the operating cost side thats coming in lower than expectation.
And you mentioned your pretty impressive 10% Paint Stores sales can you give us a sense what Comex is doing year-over-year and maybe what you think the overall U.S.
architectural paint market might do in 2014.
Id say that the Comex stores are lagging our store sales and which would be typical in an acquisition like this.
As far as the entire market goes we get that information that lags but Id say we feel very comfortable that were growing at a faster rate than market right now.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Thanks Bob.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
First off on the Paint Stores Group clearly volumes are well above what your competitor seem to be reporting as it has been the case last couple of quarters.
Is this a function of the channel that youre exposed to maybe commercial construction or just sort of continued share gains? Id say that were experiencing very good growth in all the segments that we play so I dont think that its any specific area.
I think we really enjoy this controlled distribution model.
Weve been working hard and investing in the service and products that respond to the customers needs and were comfortable with our performance.
And just as a follow-on to that as commercial construction continues to improve generally speaking how does that affect the price mix component in the Paint Stores Group? Yeah.
Weve talked about that Ghansham in the past some of these larger projects will be at lower selling prices per gallon.
But what we said the SG&amp;A associated with servicing that business really is lower as well so operating margins for this group will benefit from gallons that we gain in any one of these end market segments.
Okay.
Thanks so much guys.
Thank you Ghansham.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Duffy Fisher with Barclays.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Duffy.
Two questions; may be first for Sean.
On CapEx this years CapEx looks like its even more back-end loaded than normal for you guys.
Can you walk through why thats split is so skewed? And then if you strip out Comex what was the underlying incremental margin for the Paint Stores Group? On the CapEx youre absolutely right.
Its little backward slanted toward the back.
Again as Comex conversion Comex starts conversion theyre going to start taking place here.
Were going to start to see that CapEx ramp up.
A few other projects that we had -- originally had early in the year were going -- especially with IT then completing the IT implementation of system throughout the world.
Well have Latin America here completed by next April but we have some expenses that are coming in.
So really its Comex and diversion of the stores and some other activities that we see coming in.
And the flow through on the stores without Comex I think John mentioned the 21.7% of sale but without Comex when you look at that that will tell you were probably incremental in the quarter of about $50 million in the sales without Comex were up around $280 million so youre talking almost 35% incremental margin.
Okay great.
And then Chris one question for you a follow-on on bobs question.
If Comex is going better early does that mean that the end point is higher than we thought originally or do we just get to the same endpoint that we thought to get there quicker.
I mean were just getting to the endpoint on cost side.
So as John mentioned [inaudible] are yet to really be running at the kind of rate we expect and we get too eventually.
So we still have some tough sledding ahead of us here.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Thanks Duffy.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of P.
J.
Juvekar with Citigroup.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes.
Thank you.
Chris can you comment on the refinish business in light of the harsh winter we had? And did you see a pick up there in the spring? And can you also comment on the protective finishes business? Thank you.
Yeah.
P.J.
Im sorry if you could repeat it.
I wasnt sure which business youre asking me to comment on relative to spring weather.
Yeah.
Refinish business.
Refinish business are you talking about automotive refinish? Yes.
John you will take that? Our business here in the U.S.
was up slightly in the quarter.
Were expecting that the customers that were talking with are experiencing more business as a result of the winter but were up slightly here in the U.S.
And then you have this sales force that goes out and bids on projects.
What are they seeing in non-residential activity any positives or negatives there? Very positive.
I would say that our contractor base in that space are feeling better -- much better this year versus last year and quite frankly much better this quarter than last quarter.
So theyre feeling very excited about the bidding activity.
And as Chris mentioned with the spray equipment purchases that we see that as an indicator of their confidence.
John and I were out recently just meeting with some of these large commercial contractors and some of them said that were not even taking any more bids right now.
Theyre so full up for the next 18 months.
And that we havent heard that in years so expecting really strong performance in that going forward.
So would you say that that is may be in the high single-digit number? Just backed in to all the guidance weve given you P.J.
and we gave you the range I think its either high single or low double-digits for the next quarter.
Thank you.
Thanks P.J.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of John McNulty with Crdit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Yeah.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Good morning John.
So with regard to SG&amp;A the 15% jump or $132 million change how are you want to look at it year-over-year? How much of that or how should we think about what the SG&amp;A growth was for kind of if you will legacy Sherwin Williams versus say some of the Comex integration and from the cost around that.
Again the increase in the SG&amp;A in the quarter and year-to-date really really been driven by three factors.
The Paint Stores Group the new stores [indiscernible] the acquisition the Comex assets operated at an SG&amp;A rate materially higher than our consolidated SG&amp;A the sale so as we anniversary that that will improve and again that investment Id mentioned in IT.
So were looking forward here the SG&amp;A was up 1.3% of sales as weve mentioned in the first half of the year.
We do expect to see that thread there to reduce.
In fact its also part of the reason why we raised guidance.
We expect the second half SG&amp;A to be lower in percent of sales than it was last year in the last six months of the year.
Okay.
Great.
Thats helpful.
And then just a quick question on the Venezuelan assets what was the normal kind of annualized earnings for those assets so we can kind of figure out how much to pull out? Yeah.
The normalized -- it was less than $2 million a year.
Unfortunately over the last few years weve been having sales profits there but we could not get our cash out.
So it was a small automotive refinish but it is in Venezuela.
So we picked some severance cost and we closed and we wrote our assets off totally so thats why that was approximately $5 million because cash had accumulated and we could not get our cash out of Venezuela.
Venezuela is to write that asset off.
Okay.
Great thank you.
And then one last question with regard to the case of buybacks certainly things accelerated in the second quarter.
I guess how should we be thinking about that going forward? Is this kind of a good run rate for a while or was it just opportunistic just seeing kind of what was in the pipeline? No.
Weve taken a look at our cash flow for the year like we always do.
We know how much cash were bringing in.
And what we said is by the end of the first quarter 2015 well be in a more normalized phase.
So we actually have looked at this quarter and actually we did by two -- just over two million shares and that was actually in the form of an accelerated stock repurchase program.
So we did that in the second quarter and were evaluating what cost program were going to do in the third quarter.
I think its not the way to think about that John is that were sitting in a higher cash balance right now than is customary for us.
Were heading into the two strongest cash generating quarters of the year for us.
And you know what wed like to do with excess cash.
So I would expect it would be reasonable to assume were going to remain active in the stock.
Great.
Thanks very much for the color.
Thank you John.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you and good morning.
Just wondering on the same store sales can you talk a little bit about as youre seeing more contractors coming in or are you seeing the same amount of contractors just buying more product or better mix or hows that working? Now were seeing more contractors and we feel as though the share of wallet that we have with our existing customers is also growing.
Were very excited with the progress that our stores organization is making with both existing and new customers.
Okay.
And just one last follow-up on the non-res side of things are there particular end markets that your guys are getting reports from that just leading enthusiasm? No.
Actually its pretty well diversified growth pattern.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Vince.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes.
Good morning.
Hi Kevin.
How much did your sales of spray equipment increased in the quarter? And was that rate more than you had previously expected last quarter? Yeah Kevin as you know we dont give you specific sales on all those various products segments inside that stores business.
So just to say that the whole business is running in comp stores and at high single-digits spray equipment was probably leading that a little bit so double-digit sales growth.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
And Chris I want to may be come back to an earlier question.
I mean historically existing home sales growth has been a primary driver of demand for architectural coatings obviously and it looks like economists have that metric in some cases anyway down a bit and yet youre seeing very robust growth.
And so Im wondering why that might be the case? Is it the non-res move that you alluded to share gains lagging maintenance all of the above how would you try to square that circle? Well let out our resident economist Dr.
Wells take that.
Good morning Kevin.
Speaking specifically to non-residential market because were getting contribution from other market segments as weve already indicated so on the residential side we think two things are happening.
One is were getting a list from home value appreciation so more home owners who are staying in place are doing remodeling and redecorating projects.
Secondly if you look at the quality of the existing home transactions that are occurring now versus a year or two years ago theres a far lower percentage of those transactions that are distressed or foreclosure-type sales.
And as youve heard us comment in the past the owner occupant selling to a new owner occupant is the transaction that generates the more paying activity.
We think were benefiting from that shift.
Okay.
That helps.
And then last one if I may Chris just welcome any thoughts you have on Lat-Am and whether or not we might see volume turn around to positive of territory there anytime soon? Yeah.
When youre doing business in Latin America its important that you look over longer segments.
Were in one of these cycles where currencies running against us.
And theres a couple of rough spots in their bigger countrys economies.
Having said that and I think John commented on it were still very much committed to the region.
We think there are opportunities for us to enhance our method of distribution and build out our infrastructure there.
I dont think that were necessarily forecasting in this guidance that were going to see volume growth in calendar year 2014 but rest assure well be working hard to get that fixed by 2015.
Okay.
Thanks very much for the thoughts.
Thank you Kevin.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Hello thank you.
First question just one if you look back to last third quarter Chris it was a very strong quarter for you guys both year-over-year and I think on seasonally adjusted basis as well.
And so youre going up against a tougher comp but youre seeing a lot in pipelines you talked about driving out acceleration or a pretty similar acceleration and growth now versus the second quarter of this year.
If you look across the major end channels of home improvement or repaying on the residential side new construction residential and non-res whats accelerating the most right now as you think about that pace? Yes.
So I think as John has commented were seeing a very broad-based recovery here Dennis across all these segments.
New residential has been strong residential repaint which is the largest segment weve been commenting on that one now for multiple quarters.
Both of those will be double-digit increases over previous years to help drive comp number in to that high 9 percentage.
Thats encouraging for us to see those two numbers doing so well because they are the lions share.
As John also mentioned the non-residential segments particularly new construction in that are which has been lagging for some time were really starting to see a lot of lift there as well too.
So this looks like heading into a back half where were going to be hitting on just about every cylinder.
So you talked about earlier the disconnect on some of the macro if you just looked at new construction residential it is that a disconnect for you guys are you guys seeing acceleration versus so to say trends on a macro side? Our business in very strong in new residential.
One of the anomalies in the June print that just came out this morning is that most of the weakness in start were in South and that has been very strong for the about year to date.
So whether that was a one month lift or something the beginning of a trend we will see but new resident in general has been very strong.
Perfect.
Helpful.
And then Sean on the Comex acquisition the trend in margins I think what you said here now we are going to get to the targeted margin sooner any update on how you can think about the momentum in 2015 versus what you said may be high single digit type numbers in 2015 for the acquired business.
We were looking at high single digits.
I think that we are watching how the year ends but I think that is probably good a guidance that we can give you right now.
I think probably at the end of the third quarter or fourth quarter and fourth quarter for sure will probably be able to update that but right now we dont see any changes to that guidance.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks and good luck.
Thank you Dennis.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
Two questions.
One on gross margin and consumer.
On the gross margin how much did Comex hurt in the quarter year-over-year and what did mix do to help.
Greg as you know I dont think we have ever given the metrics.
Our gross margin with and without it was dilutive and it has been dilutive.
The only think I will say is given you a range at the beginning of the year 45 to 46 versus 45 last year and now as the year is going through and now we believe we are going to be at the high end to that range.
Got it.
And then second on the Consumer Group.
A nice improvement there I think it was acquisitions was half of it and then volume was 5% as well in fact it was driven by retail.
Could you describe that a little more was it -- did you sign up any new distribution or was it was just strong sell through or what you really account for that.
We have a new program that we're roaring into Home Depot that we were excited about in our conference line.
We've also as I mentioned seen some nice improvement out of our European operations as well as our building materials.
Of the 5% volume would you say that those two were majority of them.
The largest one would have been Home Depot.
Home Depot great.
Thanks a lot.
Good luck.
Thank you Gregg.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of John Roberts with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks for taking my call.
There are couple businesses I guess that might come available for sale here in North America and you seemed to be going at a measured pace which you repurchase keep your flexibility.
Could you talk about the M&amp;A pipeline? Yeah John.
So we've been very clear and open and transparent with the street in terms of the types of properties that would be of interest to us.
We would agree that there are some interesting names in North America as well as in our industrial coating segments globally but nothing further to comment on at this time.
Okay.
And then secondly the plan A in Latin America was to get scale to get the margins to improve there.
Is there a plan B given scale doesnt look achievable and at least in the near term that I can see.
Most of the plan B John and that C and D has to go along with that one.
Just as you were representing M&amp;A opportunities there are a number of interesting names and companies that we respect throughout Latin America.
So we're certainly not done thinking about building scale through M&amp;A throughout Latin America.
And also as has been our practice we are a company that's focused on our core development.
We have good scale already in these countries.
We are not the market share leader in the larger economies but call it second or third and that's not a bad position to build from.
So we have a number of imitative to really ramp up our own core group as well as to continue to think about M&amp;A and I think as we commented earlier that you know we are very focused on this region and we expect to do better in 2015.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning and thanks for taking my question.
Good morning Nil.
On the Comex -- is Comex going to be more dilutive in the fourth quarter than it is for any of the other quarters and if so why would that be the case.
Yeah when you take a look at the year-to-date -- when you think about the year-to-date loss on Comex $0.45 and it's compared to the 35 and then compared to last year it won't be any dilutive.
It's 18 and it's 17 in the second half of the year but they have a sell curve just like our Stores Group and if you take a look at that volume they are closer to the breakeven points in that third and fourth quarter -- I am sorry the first and fourth quarter and that's why they are more dilutive.
Years ago if you looked to our Stores Group in the first and fourth quarter when we were closer to the breakeven we had the same phenomenon but we will get there with the Comex stores with higher volumes but until that happens the first and fourth quarter will be a bigger drag than the rest of the Paint Stores Group.
Okay.
That makes sense.
Then in terms of having the point of sale in the Comex Stores now for a couple months is there anything you are seeing I know before in the past you guys have said that there is pricing lower pricing and lower fill rates.
Is there anything new that youve seen that you can make improvements on and work for those? How quick those get to share one type level.
We are very excited with what we are learning to the POS and we are excited about the future.
We're going to be able to leverage that POS much like we do in our own stores understanding our customers better.
To your point about pricing a basket approach what are they purchasing from us and what they are? So we're excited about that and as we go into next year we're going to leverage that.
Great.
And then just finally I know Latin America now seems like almost unfortunately a bit of an afterthought in terms of profitability and you are certainly looking to improvement it by 2015 but is there any reason that it won't get any worse.
Yeah.
I think that we have currency headwinds and if you think about especially the first Brazil real the third quarter and fourth quarter can be better comparisons for us.
If you look at Argentina right now we have been running at that 8% versus 5% that will be 8% versus 6% in the second half of the year that's a little bit of difference but it continue to evaluate in that third and fourth quarter but operationally I dont think that we still feel we're strides and improvement our operation.
So except for that I think that you know I dont see it going backwards from here.
And how much of you have been able to offset the currency drag with pricing.
Well I think that when you talk -- if points were failed and shall we get the amount of currency drag when it's over 11% and again in U.S.
dollars we were down around 8% and there were some volumes that did backwards so we gave some price.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Thank you Nils.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Good Morning.
Good morning Eric.
Two things.
First of all the earning guidance change for the quarter and the back half of the year it looked like you have affirmed the sales guidance and increased the earnings guidance.
So the assumptions that margins are better and Sean I know you commented about how SG&amp;A looks into the second half versus first half but can you provide a little bit more color inside of the core earnings guidance change.
The sales mix is different or the margin is different especially out a little bit.
We dont see the sales mix changing dramatically from our original guidance.
Eric I think it really comes down to the gross margin.
We did mention 45 to 46.
We're at 45 halfway through the year.
We think for the full year we're going to be at the high end in the next guidance.
The SG&amp;A we did mention you know the first half of the year the comparisons were bad.
We had more new stores earlier this year than we ever have.
Some of the things that we were going to start anniversary we think our SG&amp;A in the last six months will actually be below the last six months of last year.
So still good thing.
So I think that it's the margin in total and that's because of sales mix just because of things that are occurring and getting some of those other things out of the way in the first half of the year.
Is the SG&amp;A stand different in the back half than what you originally expected or is there something different within that relative to where you started that you are thinking.
I think the SG&amp;A spend will probably be slightly below what we originally thought at the beginning of the year but not dramatically.
And I think importantly in that Eric the SG&amp;A spend is lower because we are integrating the stores better we are gaining efficiency there havent been a whole sales decision to whack programs in marketing advertising training R&amp;D etcetera.
So this is just really the company continuing to add efficiency around the fringes as we integrate businesses.
And then second question Chris for you.
Strategically you went through a period of time with acquisitions outside of the U.S.
outside of the U.S.
architectural business I heard your comment earlier about sale of Latin America so I am just curious as you think strategically about the portfolio and acquisitions from hear and if you could give us a sense of your thoughts or your priority or what's important for you going forward.
I think this management team has been pretty much locked on a pretty logical strategy here for quite some time Eric that hasnt changed at all.
We like the architectural coatings businesses in the Americas and we recognize that our industrial coatings are competing in a global environment or wherever we can find controlled distributions to support those American businesses or add technologies infrastructure important geographies and/or customers to the industrial coatings will be at the table and discussing those opportunities.
Thank you.
Thanks Eric.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of [Arun Viswanathan] with RBC Capital Market.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys.
Thank you for taking my question.
Good to be back covering chemicals.
How the customers I guess been responding to the price increase? May be if you can just describe their behavior or given that you do expect a flat rock bucket.
Not really been an issue I would say with our customers.
And we've had a logical discussion with them and we continue to provide them with a good quality product and great service and it's really behind us.
Okay.
Great.
And then I guess -- I just wanted to delve into the earlier comments you mentioned that you were seeing strength in the South and maybe you can just highlight what you're seeing growth on the res and non-res side regionally speaking and if there is any differences.
As Bob mentioned the strong performance that we are having in the new residential has been in the south.
We've also had good performance in parts of Northern Area and then Western and Eastern as well.
Commercial has really been strong.
It's really been quite strong across all segments across all our regions.
It's been our practice to kind of give you that ranking of where the strength is coming from and so we've continued on and sometimes when we are preparing our thoughts to share with you we think about when all the segments are doing so strong in all the geographies it really kind of splitting areas to tell you which parts of country you are doing better.
So this is really a business through the Stores Groups that is just delivering across the country across all segments as John commented on them.
Okay.
Great thank you a lot.
Thank.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line Jay McCanless with Sterne Agee.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
I wanted to ask about Latin America in a different way.
Do you think the volume softness this quarter had more to do with the World Cup than an actual drop-off in demand? And then the second part of that when you look at 2015 and 2016 and what the economists are expecting for housing growth and then commercial growth what does that outlook -- what does that look like.
I dont know that we want to say that it was a World Cup influence our results and there are markets that we would say are impacted by the economic conditions or the environment and there is somewhere we just need to perform better and thats we are working on.
I didnt catch the second part of your question.
So the expectation on the market conditions going forward Jay I guess we have confidence that when we look behind the results today the housing needs going forward in Mexico the infrastructure that hasn't been maintained as appropriately it is a should have been perhaps in Brazil the demand for the types of products and services we provide we'll have to have a rebound going forward.
And I think that's why we continue to stay hard at it improving our operations investing and trying to build out our network.
Okay thank.
And then the second question I have just in the U.S.
if you look at single family housing demand versus multifamily housing demand.
Is multifamily an increasing portion of your business and what types of numbers do you get there whether on profit margin or on volume growth relative to what you see in single family.
Jay this is Bob.
With respect to demand multifamily is a larger component of a new construction markets than it was during the last cycle.
And we think that's probably going to be true for some time although as you know the multifamily size is really voluble and to oscillate quarter to quarter and year to year.
We think that for the time being that the U.S.
is going to be more of a renders market than an owner's market for some time to come.
From a margin standpoint we've always commented that it really doesnt affect us from an operating margin standpoint all of the segments that have very comparable operating margin.
Okay great.
Jay the one positive on the multifamily side is that while single family homes the maintenance activity in those homes is kind of a mix of DIY to contractor on the multifamily side it is overwhelmingly maintained by contractors which plays to our strength.
Okay.
Great.
Thank guys.
Appreciate it.
Thanks Jay.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line Dmitry Silversteyn with Longbow Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys and congratulations on quarter.
Good morning Dmitry I would like to touch base on your corporate expense line.
It's been off pretty material year-over-year.
Some of it obviously Comex but a lot of it is probably not Comex.
So in the context of your SG&amp;A in the second half of the year being down as a percentage of sales versus second half of last year how much of that is going to be corporate expense versus just better margins in the operating businesses? Even with the Admin expense we were up $31 million in the first half of the year and as we take a look at the -- take that down at $25 million that split really between stock compensation and other compensation such as bonus and the IT projects that we've been working on.
The second half of the year we dont think we are going to be up the $31 million.
So that's going to help but even if we were up when you add up $31 million that's a nice improvement but really the SG&amp;A is really been driven by the operating division.
Okay.
Got it.
And then can you provide us with updates if anything is going on or any changes with respect to the litigation in California how that's progressing and also given the news in the market with PBG taking a run at Comex if that's changing at all your mutual animosity in the courts with the Comex owner.
Dmitry with respect with California Litigation there is really no changes in the status of that suite since our last call.
As you know last quarter we announced that the final judgment was entered against three companies.
We immediately filed a Notice of Appeal in that judgment and we are currently waiting for the record to be transmuted from the trial court to the Court of Appeal.
It tends to be a fairly long process.
We think the record would probably be transferred in the third quarter.
At that point the court will initiate a briefing schedule which is going to take at least five months and once and then all arguments will begin and once all arguments conclude it's another 90 days for the court to render a decision.
All totaled we continue to believe that the decision by the Court of Appeals is going to take approximately two to three years.
As far as the Comex issue is concerned we are still in arbitrator and there is still a lawsuit filed by Sherwin Williams in the New York Court and at this stage we are in the process of selecting arbitrators.
Got it.
Then not to beat the dead horse to death here but in terms of your Latin-American operations obviously there's not much you can do without the facts other than maybe push through pricing which you have been doing but for you to turn that business around and the performance of that business and actually get out on a positive trajectory either this year or next year is there anything that you guys can do internally or do you have to rely basically on the currency and the end markets improving? No there's a lot we can do internally Dmitry and it's the same kind of playbook that we assume run the company deliver the results we have.
We need to knock on more doors call on more painting contractors move more gallons of paint be more efficient.
When the economies come back and the currency runs our direction it will be really really good.
In the mean time we're working on the things that we can control.
So are you increasing your sales presence there in terms of outside sales people and how do you bang on more doors? We have invested in more people to promote our sales and our gallons in the marketplace absolutely.
All right.
Thank you.
Thanks Dmitry.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of Eugene Fedotoff with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Good morning Eugene.
Congratulations on a good quarter.
Thank you.
Couple of questions on store group sales for the quarter if you can comment on anything that youve seen maybe something outside of normal seasonal improvement and also maybe you can comment on sales in first half of July here.
We mentioned the time is good and all segments across all of our divisions and that momentum is continuing here as we begin July.
Okay.
Thanks and a question on DIY customers of your stores.
I think previously youve talked about gaining market share in that particular segment.
Just wondering if that's still the case you are seeing strong growth in DIY presence and how was 4th July weekend for that segment I guess? Performance in DIY is also strong.
The weekend was good for us as well and again the momentum is continuing.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks Eugene.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Jeff Zekauskas - JP Morgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks very much.
I imagine that sequentially your tin prices in North America went up is everything now priced in so that tin prices sequentially going forward should be flattish or is there still more realization to come? I think the price increase we've realized what we're going to get from the price increase.
We don't see a big improved increase in the third or fourth quarter Jeff.
And you commented before that you thought that the TiO2 market was benign for the remainder of the year when you look out over the next two or three years do you still see it as benign or you do you see it as changing? Jeff it's always based on the balance and supply and demand in the market.
Coatings demand in North America should continue to grow as we move back towards normalized levels.
That said as you know there is plans on the drawing board for a new high-capacity TiO2 plant in Mexico.
There is continuing supply growth coming out of Asia Pacific.
So it just all depends on how on the timing of those factors.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Jeff.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Richard O'Reilly with Revere Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you and good afternoon now I guess.
Good afternoon Richard.
Okay.
In the consumer group the profit contribution from Comex at $2.7 million is that all flowing from the sales gain? My math is the $19.7 million or does some of that flow through from the paint stores like what happens in the legacy Sherwin Williams.
No that income is actually from a couple different sources that are in consumer group.
The duck back products as well as the viewer business we have up in [tied in] (ph) Canada so that process is really not being driven by the stores group.
Okay.
Good.
Okay.
And second question I guess you are trying to answer this but for the second quarter alone for Comex your profit the loss was smaller than you thought but the sales were clearly at or below the low end of your projection what's going on -- why are the stores -- Comex stores lagging your expectations? Why are they lagging our expectations we expected them to be behind and they are.
As we commented Richard when we made this acquisition that this was a troubled asset in North America and we are building these stores out and improving their inventory position and we've already talked about the equipment etcetera and so it's going to take us a while to reestablish those relationships and get those gallons and customers coming back.
John talked about the things we're learning in this for example the ability to add on associated product sales for equipment etcetera and these all things that are we're going to be working on aggressively going forward.
Okay.
Fine.
Now you just came out I guess the stores -- Comex stores business which is at the low end of your expectations for the quarter.
Well actually expectations we gave were $0.10 dilutive for the Comex that's in the second quarter.
We actually were $0.06 dilutive.
Baked in sales the sales Right.
They're at the low end of -- sales that are still at the low end of the expectation that's correct.
Okay.
Thanks a lot for your time guys.
Thank you Richard.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Aram Rubinson with Wolfe Research.
Please proceed with your question.
I can't believe it I still have questions left to ask.
Thanks for extending the call.
Couple things I was curious first I want to make sure we get the gross profit dollar changes if it's possible by segment before we get off and then just can you tell us about what your competitors are doing? They seem to be really busy on the acquisition front whether it's your North America last year and then down in Mexico? I am just wondering strategically how you view that and what you would like to do to kind of fortify yourself? I'll take the gross margin dollar real quick here so we get that -- make sure we get that our Paint Stores Group were up $142 500 000 million consumer was up $21 959 000 our Global Finishes Group were up $8 418 000 and Latin America Group was up $4 211 000.
Then regarding our competitors there and we've long commented about this terrific industry that we compete in that we're blessed with really outstanding companies to compete against.
We respect the strategies and performance of all these folks and we look forward to meeting them on the battle field and I think our results as John commented earlier particularly in the area of share gains we're showing that we're pretty confident.
We've got a good model here.
We're going to continue to work it hard.
Thanks and just last thing you wanted to get your cash balance down is it fair to assume that historically you were kind of sub $100 million in terms of cash you would like on the balance sheet.
Should we assume that that's about right for your long term or do you think you need more of these? Yes we think that we don't think we need -- we need liquidity sources.
Our liquidity sources are strong but I believe our cash flow will be below $100 million again in the future.
Thanks guys.
Have a great quarter.
Thank you Aram.
Thank you.
It appears there are no further question at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Wells for any additional concluding comments.
Thanks Jessie.
As always I will be available for the balance of today tomorrow and throughout the coming weeks and to your any follow-up questions you might have.
Thanks again for joining us today and thank you for your continued interest in Sherwin Williams.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude todays teleconference.
We thank you for your participation.
And you may disconnect your lines at this time.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining The Sherwin-Williams Company's review of the Third Quarter 2014 Financial Results and Expectations for the Fourth Quarter and Full Year.
This conference call is being webcast simultaneously in listen only mode by Vcall via the internet at www.sherwin.com.
An archived replay of this webcast will be available at www.sherwin.com beginning approximately 2 hours after this conference call concludes and will be available until Monday November 17 2014 5:00 p.m.
Eastern time.
Following the company's review of the third quarter financial results and outlook for the fourth quarter and full year we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the call over to Bob Wells Senior Vice President Corporate Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Jesse.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
We're going to begin the call this morning with some prepared remarks by John Morikis President and Chief Operating Officer; and Chris Connor Chairman and CEO.
Following their remarks we will open the call to questions and Sean Hennessy our Chief Financial Officer; and Al Mistysyn Vice President Corporate Controller are with us on the call to participate in the Q&amp;A session.
Before I pass the microphone to John let me remind you that this conference call will include certain forward-looking statements as defined under U.S.
federal securities laws with respect to sales earnings and other matters.
Any forward-looking statements speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A full declaration regarding forward-looking statements is provided in our earnings release transmitted earlier this morning.
In the interest of time we have also provided some balance sheet items and other selected financial information on our website at www.sherwin.com under Investor Relations third quarter press release.
With that let me turn the call over to John to review our performance for the quarter.
Thanks Bob.
Third quarter 2014 was another strong quarter for the company.
But before we go through our results in more detail I'd like to take a few minutes to highlight some key organizational changes we made during the past 3 months.
Let me begin by saying that none of these changes will affect the composition of our reportable segments for the third quarter or in future reporting periods.
For the past 4 years Jay Davisson has provided outstanding leadership to our North American Paint Stores organization overseeing a period of impressive growth and expansion.
In August of this year we broadened Jay's responsibilities to include the distribution of our products through Latin America.
In this new capacity Jay and his team will be charged with growing our business across North and South America providing integrated resources to support our sales and marketing efforts.
To support this effort the R&amp;D teams and labs located in Latin America region will become part of the global supply chain R&amp;D organization.
This will result in faster technology transfer and new product development across multiple product portfolios.
Pablo Garcia Casas Formally President and General Manager of Sherwin-Williams Mexico has been promoted to President and General Manager Latin America division reporting to Jay.
Again none of these organizational changes affect our reportable segments for our third quarter or in future periods nor do they affect our leadership or organizational structure of the Paint Stores Group in North America.
Our goal is to promote collaboration in the sharing of resources between our North American and Latin American business units to accelerate growth across both regions.
In the third quarter we continued to see strong momentum in both of our domestic businesses -- in both our domestic businesses and mixed results from our nondomestic operations.
I'll begin by highlighting overall company performance for our third quarter 2014 compared to third quarter 2013 then comment on each reportable segment.
Consolidated net sales increased 10.6% to $3.15 billion driven primarily by strong performance in our stores group and acquisitions.
The Comex acquisition added 3.3% to net sales in the quarter while unfavorable currency translation decreased consolidated net sales 0.7%.
Consolidated gross profit dollars increased $175 million year-over-year to $1.47 billion and gross margin increased 120 basis points to 46.7% of sales from 45% in the third quarter last year.
This was -- margin improvement was primarily the result of better operating leverage from higher production and distribution volume which more than offset the anticipated gross margin drag from the stores acquired from Comex.
Selling general and administrative expenses for the quarter increased $94.7 million to $984.4 million.
As a percent of sales third quarter SG&amp;A was flat year-over-year at 31.2% reflecting a decline in core SG&amp;A as a percent of sales plus the incremental SG&amp;A from acquisitions.
Interest expense for the quarter was $16 million an increase of $631 000 over third quarter last year.
Consolidated profit before taxes in the quarter increased $86.6 million or 22.3% to $474 million.
Our effective tax rate in the third quarter of this year was 31.2% compared to 32.1% in the third quarter of 2013.
For the full year 2014 we expect our effective tax rate to be in the low-30s compared to last year's rate of 30.7%.
Consolidated net income increased $63.3 million or 24.1% to $326.2 million.
Net income as a percent of sales increased to 10.4% compared to 9.2% in the third quarter last year.
Diluted net income per common share for the quarter increased 31.4% to $3.35 per share compared to $2.55 per share in the third quarter 2013.
The combination of acquisitions and currency decreased earnings per share $0.04 in the quarter.
Now looking at our results by operating segment.
Paint Stores Group turned in another strong performance in the third quarter.
Segment sales increased 15% to $2.03 billion.
And comparable store sales sales by stores open more than 12 calendar months grew 9.6%.
This comp store revenue growth includes almost no effective pricing and no contribution from the Comex stores.
So core store volume growth was solidly in the high-single digits.
Acquisitions added $80.4 million or 4.6% to sales in the quarter.
Regionally in the third quarter our Southwestern division led all divisions followed by Southeastern division Midwestern division and Eastern Division.
Paint Stores Group's segment profit for the quarter increased $72.5 million or 20.2% to $431.8 million.
Segment profit as a percent of sales increased to 21.3% from 20.4% last year as higher paint sales volumes were more than enough to overcome a $5.4 million loss on the acquired stores.
During the quarter we added 18 net new stores bringing our year-to-date total to 51 new locations.
At quarter end our total store count in the U.S.
Canada and Caribbean was 3 959 compared to 3 868 locations at the end of the third quarter 2013.
Our Paint Stores Group plans to add approximately 80 to 90 net new store locations during calendar year 2014.
The integration of the stores we acquired from Comex a year ago is proceeding according to plan with some consolidation costs coming in below what we originally expected.
For our Consumer Group organic sales growth slowed somewhat in the third quarter but segment operating margins held up well.
Sales increased 5% to $385.2 million from $366.8 million last year with acquisitions adding 3.9% to net sales in the quarter.
Segment profit for the Consumer Group increased $5.9 million or 8.1% to $79 million from $73.1 million last year.
Acquisitions decreased segment profit $1.9 million in the quarter as a result of strong seasonality in some of the acquired businesses.
Segment profit as a percent of external sales increased to 20.5% from 19.9% in the same period last year.
For the second consecutive quarter Global Finishes Group generated revenue growth in the mid-single digits and made progress on operating margin.
Third quarter sales in U.S.
dollars increased 5.7% to $536.3 million driven by higher paint sales volumes and selling price increases.
Unfavorable currency translation decreased sales 0.4% in the quarter compared to last year.
Global Finishes group's domestic business continued to show strength in the third quarter but this improvement was partially offset by weakness outside of the U.S.
particularly in Latin America.
Segment profit in U.S.
dollars increased 36.4% in the quarter to $60.8 million from $44.5 million last year due primarily to higher paint sales volumes and price increases.
These results also include a $6.3 million gain on the early termination of a customer agreement in the quarter.
Unfavorable currency translation rate changes reduced segment profit $900 000.
As a percent to net external sales Global Finishes Group's segment profit was 11.3% in the quarter compared to 8.8% last year.
Our Latin America Coatings Group continues to operate in a very challenging economic environment.
Third quarter net sales for the group stated in U.S.
dollars decreased 4% to $200.4 million.
Volumes in the quarter were negative and unfavorable currency translation decreased net sales by 7.8% both of which were offset to some degree by selling price increases.
Segment profit in the third quarter stated in U.S.
dollars increased to $11.8 million from a loss of $1 million in the same period last year.
In the third quarter 2013 we incurred a charge of $19.8 million related to a Brazil tax assessment.
This year lower sales volumes currency-related raw material cost inflation and unfavorable currency translation were only partially offset by selling price increases.
Currency translation decreased segment profit $4 million in the quarter.
As a percent of net sales segment operating profit was 5.9% in the quarter compared to negative 0.5% in the third quarter 2013.
This concludes our review of results for the quarter.
So I'll turn the call over to Chris Connor who will make some general comments and highlight our expectations for fourth quarter and full year.
Chris? Thanks John.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us today.
There is not much I need to add to John's comments on our third quarter results other than we remain convinced this positive momentum is sustainable.
Regardless of the financial market's ongoing concerns over the resilience of the domestic housing recovery if and when the nonres rebound will materialize or whether the job market can sustain all this we see an increasingly positive picture developing for our company.
Home prices are still rising at a healthy yet manageable pace and mortgage availability has improved.
At the same time rates are dropping.
Remodeling activity has picked up in terms of both current projects and contractor sentiment.
New square footage growth is positive year-to-date in both the residential and nonresidential markets.
In cities across America occupancy rates in multifamily housing office space hospitality manufacturing and warehouses have reached very healthy levels a really good bellwether of future demand for new commercial space.
And many of the industrial coatings markets have turned the corner and are showing increasing strength.
This positive momentum has been evident in our sales and earnings performance going back to the second quarter last year.
The results we released this morning set new all-time records for consolidated sales operating margins net income and earnings per share for any quarter in our company's history.
It was also a record quarter in terms of net operating cash generation.
Working capital management continues to be a source of operating cash for the company particularly as we integrate the operations of the Comex business we acquired 1 year ago.
These efforts have driven our working capital ratio down 170 basis points year-over-year to 10.8% of sales compared to 12.5% on September 30 last year.
9-month net operating cash increased more than $100 million compared to the same period last year and stands at just over 10% of sales.
In the third quarter alone we generated $550 million in net operating cash bringing our 9 month total to $881.3 million.
Free cash flow which to us is net operating cash less CapEx and dividends was $583 million.
We continue to invest a portion of the company's cash back into the business in the form of capital expenditures.
For the first 9 months of 2014 we spent $136 million on CapEx depreciation expense was $125.7 million and amortization expense was $22.6 million.
For the full year 2014 we anticipate CapEx spending will be in the range of $170 million to $180 million.
Depreciation will be about $170 million and amortization will be about $30 million.
In the third quarter we bought back 2 million shares of our common stock in the open market bringing our year-to-date total purchases to 5.33 million shares at an average price of $2.05 I'm sorry $205.46.
On September 30 we have remaining authorization to acquire 6.8 million shares.
Last week our Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.55 per share up from $0.50 last year.
Before I turn to our expectations for the balance of the year I want to comment briefly on the organization changes John highlighted at the beginning of the call.
Needless to say for the past 2 years we've faced very difficult market conditions in Latin America.
Our management team and all of our people throughout the region responded with intelligence hard work and determination.
I'm pleased with their response and confident in their future.
The actions we've taken to promote closer collaboration between our North American and Latin American businesses is not a reaction to the current economic environment rather it's an important step towards our long-term goal to be the market leader in architectural and protective coatings throughout the Americas.
For the fourth quarter we anticipate our consolidated net sales will increase 6% to 8% compared to last year's fourth quarter.
With revenues at that level we estimate diluted net income per common share in the fourth quarter to be in the range of $1.30 to $1.40 per share compared to $1.14 per share in the fourth quarter of 2013.
This guidance includes our expectation that the Comex acquisition will reduce diluted net income per common share by approximately $0.10 in the fourth quarter.
For the full year 2014 we expect consolidated net sales to increase 9% to 11% compared to full year 2013.
With annual sales at that level we have raised our expectation for full year diluted net income per common share to a range of $8.70 to $8.80 per share compared to $7.26 per share earned in 2013.
This annual guidance includes $0.28 per share EPS dilution which is lower than both our original full year expectation of $0.50 dilution and a revised second quarter expectation of $0.35 per share dilution from the Comex acquisition.
Again thanks to all of you for joining us this morning.
And now we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just first off on the customer termination you referenced for Global Finishes.
Does that impact the top line at all going forward? And is the gain just specific to the third quarter or is there any sort of residual flow-through into 4Q as well? Well the fourth quarter no.
There's no residual into the fourth quarter.
I would say there's going to be a small amount of residual sales decrease in the future but not enough to be material.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of the comp store sales for Paint Stores going forward.
I mean obviously you're starting to cycle through some very very tough comparisons as you did in 3Q.
Can you just sort of give us an early glimpse into what a realistic growth rate is for you versus the industry in 2015? I know it's a little bit early but I thought I'd ask anyway.
Yes Ghansham.
So we'll give you a lot more color on that obviously when we have our year end call and give your our guidance for next year.
I think we've been commenting for some time now to the investment community that our expectations is that stores group can perform at 1.5x to 2x the market based on the rebounding contractor segments that we've talked about.
So if we think that the market will continue to be a little bit ahead of GDP growth next year let's say the 3% to 4% we would expect our volumes in that stores group to outperform.
Our next question is coming from the line of Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Could you -- it sounds like Comex continues to come in better than you expected.
Do you have an update on when you expect the stores in total to become completely accretive rather than dilutive? Yes we sure do.
This is Sean Hennessy.
And again we're giving you guidance of $0.28 loss this year.
And we've been consistent in the last few quarters saying that we're going to actually earn $0.08 to $0.13 next year.
So we believe that next year we're going to have $0.36 to $0.41 accretion.
And we've given you EPS guidance there.
So we think next year we're going to have positive operating profits.
Research Division</strong> But you're not pulling that forward to slightly better performance in the last couple of quarters.
No.
And here's why.
When you take a look at the difference between the $0.35 and the $0.28 this is really driven by -- it's really driven by closing costs.
Closing costs have come in less than we thought.
So operationally we think we're pretty much in the same situation we were.
The $0.06 that we did take this quarter we did anticipate it in our full year guidance of $0.35.
We did anticipate it in the fourth quarter not the third quarter.
But for the full year we did anticipate that $0.06.
So the difference between $0.35 and $0.28 is really closing costs.
Our next question is coming from the line of Aram Rubinson with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> A question on Comex about -- I know they're not in the same-store sales.
But can you tell us about how those stores are performing on a year-over-year basis? I ask because seasonally it looks like your sales in Comex went down 22% from the second quarter whereas your regular Sherwin stores went up 9%.
And I just don't know why they behave so different on a seasonal basis.
Yes.
So if you look at that performance over the past 12 months we've had revenues through those stores of $425 million.
And that is down slightly year-over-year.
As we took that business over those stores were under pressure and they had sales that were going backwards.
We've since stabilized that business and we're feeling good about where that business is going and we expect that those stores will perform much better going forward.
We do expect that they'll lag our comp Sherwin stores in performance but they'll continue to get better in their performance.
We also believe that because as the integration continues to be completed breaking the sales out and then going forward really it's going to be a difficult if that's possible.
So this would probably be the last quarter that we're able to give you Comex sales.
Because as the integration occurs the sales go from one store to another.
LLC</strong> But suffice to say that if your normal business drops off in Q3 to Q4 I assume we should expect that the Comex sales would also seasonally drop? And then I'll leave that one alone.
Sure of course.
Yes.
One point to add to the Comex story Aram is that we've closed 7 Comex stores this year as well.
Or the other side of the business obviously we continue to add stores.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then I'm sure the question will be asked.
But oil prices have obviously gone through the floor and that must have had some change on your input price outlook.
I'm just hoping you can update us and remind us again kind of what percent of your inputs are oil-based and how we should think about that for 2015? Yes Aram this is Bob.
It is certainly true that a portion of our raw material basket is sensitive to crude oil pricing.
About 10 years ago we did an analysis that told us that a 10% move in crude oil would result in just under a 1% move in the raw material basket.
Since that time we haven't updated that analysis.
But since that time our raw material basket has become less oil sensitive primarily in the solvent category and resin category.
So a 10% move in crude oil today would result in something less than 0.9% move into raw material basket.
There will be some benefit but it won't really be material.
Our next question is coming from the line of P.J.
Juvekar with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Several companies that have reported so far have talked about signs of commercial growth.
You have a pretty good exposure to that through your stores business.
So what kind of opportunity do you see in 2015 from commercial construction? P.J.
this is Bob again.
We feel very good about the direction and kind of the momentum in the nonresidential market.
And our optimism is fueled by 2 sources of information.
One is the same published data sources that everyone else is looking at.
And that shows contracts for new addition and major alterations up very significantly in a lot of the categories that Chris mentioned in his opening remarks.
Office and bank buildings up more than 25%.
Hotels and motels up almost 50% year-over-year.
Manufacturing and schools and colleges in the mid-teens.
And those categories all told represent almost 40% of the nonresidential space.
There are some negative categories retail and health care and managed care being kind of standing out amongst the negatives.
But overall square footage contracted year-to-date is up 5%.
We also get timely robust feedback from our contractor customers.
Many of them who specialize in this commercial space.
And clearly they are busier and more optimistic today than they were a year ago.
Research Division</strong> And just quickly on M&amp;A pipeline.
Chris you talked about in the past making strategic acquisitions in Asia and Europe.
And I know at some point you'd said that valuations were high in Asia.
So what do you see there now? Yes I think we've been consistent P.J.
Our interest in Asia and Europe would be to continuing the support our industrial coatings businesses which we would embed in that global group.
I don't think these evaluations particularly are out of line for us.
Ours is just a much more thoughtful process at looking for the right technologies in the right end customer segments.
Coupled with that will be our continued focus on architectural opportunities throughout the Americas.
And obviously in Latin America plenty of opportunities.
So we continue to stay diligent in those 2 areas and keep The Street posted whenever we have something to share with you.
Our next question is coming from the line of John McNulty with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> With regard to cash flow you pushed the working capital levels to some pretty aggressively really kind of squeezing a lot or wringing a lot out of rag.
I guess I'm wondering how much now that we're kind of anniversary a lot of the Comex moves or initial moves I guess how should we think about the ability to wring more out of the working capital rag going forward? One of the things that we always are conscious of as we go through these inventory analysis as we're looking at that service.
And what's interesting is that service is actually higher today than it was when we were at 15% 18% working capital.
What we've said is we used just to talk about 11% of sales would be normal.
I think our goal now is 10%.
We think that will continue to work especially some of the changes we've made in Latin America and so forth we think that we can run this company at 10% working capital to sales and still have higher service to our customers.
Yes.
We don't like your word squeeze John.
It's basically [ph] running -- 15% is better.
I would say that the commercial teams are thrilled with the service levels and we're operating at a very good place right now.
Research Division</strong> And then one last question.
With regard to I guess the administrative line or the corporate line there was a tick up on the provision for environmental.
It jumped up $11 million.
And so can you just remind us of what that is and how we should be thinking about that expense maybe going forward? Good question.
If you look at our footnote that we've continued to put in our Q and the K these are historical sites manufacturing sites.
And the ongoing expenses are booked when specific remediation plans are approved.
And really trying to predict the timing that -- of the approvals with the government agencies is very difficult even while we're working with those agencies.
So in the quarter we have a little more agreement that what we're going to do in a site.
And if you look at -- we talked about the Gibbsboro site in our footnote and I think that's where we're at and which is why the -- but this -- the work that we've done this quarter that's why the expense was higher.
And that was higher than we expected.
That was probably $8 million to $10 million higher than expected.
That was not in our guidance for the quarter.
So we were surprised of the timing also John.
Research Division</strong> And that goes back down to normal now that we're -- now that it's been announced and it's kind of run through your channel is that the right way to think about it? Yes.
And if you look at it our admin expense was negatively affected by $11 million in the quarter $9 million year-to-date.
So it's really that timing.
It's definitely what some timing now.
Our next question is coming from the line of Jeff Zekauskas with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> There's a new chloride-based large TiO2 plant being built in China or coming onstream in China from Henan Billions.
Are you familiar with the technology in that plant? And is it feasible for Sherwin-Williams to import TiO2 from China that's chloride-based for its global operations? Jeff this is Bob.
We are familiar with that technology.
We understand it to be not as productive a technology as some out there but it's going to produce high-quality chloride TiO2.
To the extent that that chloride TiO2 comes on to the global market we would certainly be in a position to negotiate.
Our next question is coming from the line of Dennis McGill of Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> Chris I'm so surprised your letting Bob get away with a 10-year old analysis.
Maybe just ask that question a little differently.
If you put the whole basket together as you guys have done in the past and everything holds where it is today what would be your outlook over the next year let's say for raw material cost? So Bob may be using 10-year-old analysis but Hennessy uses a 148-year-old analysis.
What we do here is based on history.
It's a little bit early for us Dennis to give you comment on the basket of raws for 2015.
Again that will be a first quarter call.
We hold ourselves to that discipline to advise you of that.
Having said that and with the earlier question from Aram about oil we don't see a lot of pressure right now but we'll give you much more definitive answer on that here in the next call.
LLC</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then John just to clarify the accretion from Comex next year the $0.08 to $0.13 are there any onetime items? Or is there [indiscernible] that will be included in that? No.
I think that when we acquired this asset we had 8 manufacturing sites.
We've announced 5 have closed.
And so we've taken the closing costs on those 5 I don't see any major changes in the next -- or hit in that analysis of $0.08 to $0.13.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then last question on the balance sheet.
If you were not to find another acquisition over the next year let's say that meets your criteria and the cash flow is going to remain strong would you ever consider borrowing and levering up a little bit to accelerate share repurchases? I think we've been pretty consistent on this for greater than 10 years David at all 148.
But we still believe that if we generate this cash we're going to pay out dividends invest in the business in CapEx and void of acquisitions we think our debt's going to be in very good shape in that 1:1 in EBITDA.
You'll see us buyback stock.
I don't believe until we believe -- until we get the idea that we're not in a consolidating industry and things cannot happen.
That's when we'll start thinking differently about that 1:1.
But I don't see that happening in the next year's calendar year.
Our next question is coming from the line of Ivan Marcuse with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Sean can you give me the changes in gross profit for the segments? Yes I can.
Paint Stores Group was an increase of $137.8 million.
Consumer was an increase of $14.6 million.
Global Finishes Group was $14.5 million.
And Latin America was up $9.8 million.
And just remember now Latin America that's where the hit from the raw material -- issue in Brazil last year hit.
That's why it's up.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then if you look at your Latin America arm [ph] division and I know you're changing you're making some leadership changes there.
Is your strategy in that region going to change? Or is it going to -- what sort of I guess Jay is supposed to -- what is he deemed to do besides improve it? How is he going to go about getting that sort of the margins reversing out or gaining more share than what's been gained over the past couple of years? Yes.
I think it's fair to say that we built a pretty strong franchise here in North America and then we believe that these skills and expertise can and should be leveraged throughout the Americas.
And so our long-term thoughts and commitments in the region haven't changed we do believe that we can drive those margins into that 12% range.
And it's going to be up to that team to really get into those markets with the local leadership understand what's the best route to markets and leverage all the resources that we have to reach that type of a good return.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then last question.
Was there any price mix of any consequence that was impacting the top line for the stores group? No.
No mostly volume.
Our next question is coming from the line of Chris Perrella with Bloomberg.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the Latin American strategy there.
When the downturn came in North American Paint Stores you continued to invest.
I see the LatAm stores are flattish for a while now.
Is the impetus now to start to build up the stores await the recovery? Well we are committed to that region but we're -- and we're also committed to the right strategy in region.
And so as you look by country we'll be deciding what the best channel would be.
And in some cases it will be our stores.
In others it'll be through other channels of distribution.
And the team is working very aggressively right now with the teams on the ground to assess those and we'll be going full throttle once they've defined the strategy by micromarket.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And a question the price of oil and I guess gas on your distribution network is there a benefit? Or how should we think about lower gas prices for the Consumer Group and I guess the distribution network? Yes.
I think that -- we do buy a lot of gas and when we have a lot of shipping and so forth we'll see what that effect is.
I don't really have a metric that I can give you at this time.
Here's one to think about Chris.
We talked about what it costs to get a gallon of paint delivered to shelf 85% of that cost is raw material.
You've got the variable manufacturing cost.
Fuel and transportation is a small percentage of what's left.
So fuel savings on the fleet will be de minimis in the impact in earnings for us.
We'll move on to our next question which is coming from the line of Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Chris I'm wondering if you guys have ever looked at econometric models around oil price and is there expected to be any elasticity of demand for your products as consumers get a little more fat in their wallets? Yes.
I think the other metrics that we've been talking about Bob that are driving demand for our products are a lot more powerful than that.
The occupancy rates that Bob referred to in the various end segments our consumer confidence.
Does oil impact that a little bit perhaps slightly.
But we would not put a lot of weight on oil prices changing the curve or demand for paint in the United States.
Research Division</strong> And given -- it sounds there is about that the relatively limited influence of oil prices on your costs.
Does it have any influence on your efforts on pricing? Or do you view those as relatively independent? Yes.
Well it'd be just one of the many raw material input costs that go into the entire basket.
We've been very clear that we price based on raw material input costs.
So we've yet to make the call for next year on what the remainder of those items might be.
But for right now it seems that oil will not be a pressure point for us.
Our next question is coming from the line of Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I've got a couple of questions.
Maybe a follow-up on the last one.
Could you remind us looking at history how that price mix plays out when oil prices or raw material costs are coming down? And then I have a follow-up.
Well I think if you take a look at that chart that we showed you the long-term chart of our gross margin I believe 2006 oil went up to $140.
It came back down into the $75 range.
I could be wrong on that.
But our gross margin the following year even though the market was decreasing we held that price and we hit an all-time high at that point 46% gross margin.
Research Division</strong> Right the gross margin went up but what happened with the price mix per gallon? Will that come in? Or is there a lag or how do we think of that? I would tell you that the oil going down did not have effect on the price mix.
Again Greg we've talked about the price mix ratio here for us has been to continue to see a demand for better quality products as labor costs continue to escalate and that's a biggest part of this particular job.
So I'm not trying to be obtuse here.
That just isn't much impact on the oil price just dramatically on the way our customers act or the operating margins you're going to see for the company.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then the second question was on -- I think in the second quarter you called out sprayer sales that sort of stepped up to a new good level.
Do you have any update on that? Has it stayed there or...
Yes.
I think be safe to say that they've continued at a pretty good pace.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then housekeeping one the admin expenses I see popped up to $109 million up around $20 million.
Was that a onetime step up Sean? Or do we expect this level going forward or how should we think about that? Yes.
When you look at the third quarter I think and you're right it was up $20.8 million.
And that's where the $11 million from that environmental -- that hit that was not in our guidance.
So secondly was just a -- the other piece of it was higher compensation including stock-based comp which was up about 10.
And again that's just timing.
We knew about that but it was really that environmental that drove half of that increase in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> So fair to say $100 million would have been like the normal.
More normal.
Research Division</strong> More normal? Yes right.
Our next question is coming from the line of John Roberts with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I know there's no changes to the Latin American reporting but it sounds like it paves the way for potentially collapsing the Latin American segment and the Paint Store segments into a sort of a Pan regional segment much like you have in the global segment.
Would that make sense and provide some cost savings or why doesn't it make sense? Yes.
Well how we report the segments in this particular case is historical.
And I think there's very difference to those markets so we want to continue to give that visibility to that.
John made the comment about a lot of the learning and skill base programming we operate in North America which will be moving into Latin America that's just for those markets.
So we're going to continue to run the company as efficiently as we can with an eye towards driving the most growth and share gains.
And we think this is the structure that's best going to serve that.
No change intended to the reporting segments for now or the short-term future.
Our next question is coming from the line of Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Do you care to provide an update on how U.S.
architectural gallonage is trending for this year? I think back at your Investor Day in May you put forth a new normal level of 760 million gallons.
Just trying to get a sense of how far below that we're tracking in 2014.
Yes we don't have good data anymore.
Kevin as you know on that.
Our expectation or sense is that through the first half of the year we thought the market was moving at about a 3% to 4% range.
Just listening to some of our other competitor's results it may be slowing a little bit to that.
Last year's gallons were 700 million with a 3% pop.
If you look at 721 million gallons so you still have 40 million below that 760 million.
Hopefully we'll have a little better data to share with you on the first quarter call what the year came in now in gallons.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful I appreciate it.
And then as a follow-up could you comment on how your auto refinish coating sales trended relative to the Global Finishes segment as a whole? In the Global Finishes Group the strongest performing markets there were Product Finishes and Protective Marine.
Automotive would have been in third position there.
Domestically they were stronger than they were internationally.
Our next question is coming from the line of Arun Viswanathan with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
I guess just a little bit on the Paint Stores Group.
I mean you guys have been trending up in the high-single digits now for several quarters.
Maybe you can just help me understand why you think that should continue at that 1.5x to 2x the industry level.
The strategy that we have in our stores with this direct model is to get very close to these customers build the products and services that they need.
We're very aggressive in understanding the customers' need individually.
And since we compete on a local basis we have these local teams that are getting closer and closer to these customers.
We're not waiting for the market to come to us we're going to the market.
And we feel as though we've got the products and services that are helping us to grow share at a faster rate than the market.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I guess just as the way to put that in context I mean relative to that 740 to 760 peak gallonage number you're only at 700 maybe in the industry.
So that is it fair to assume that your share has grown by significant measures since then? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> And that's just because of the -- largely because of the customer base I guess is what you're saying? Yes I believe so.
I think we're aiming at the right targets with the compelling offer and service to provide them.
One of the charts we've used in our deck frequently talks about where these gallons will come from as the industry moves from 700 back up to a normalized run rate.
And it's going to come in the areas that are depressed and not quite there yet.
New home construction commercial construction each tend to be very heavily skewed towards the painting contractors as opposed to any DIY participation in the rebound.
And to John's point that's where we really built the model through the Stores Group to support that customer segment.
So we would expect to outperform on the rebounding portion of the gallons just given our share position against our contractor today.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I'm sorry just to fully understand this.
So yes I've seen those charts of the new home sales coming back and we did have a pretty good number earlier this week or last week on new home sales for September.
Existing was good.
So you think you can still deliver this kind of high-single digit range even with new home sales? I guess kind of still only in a recovery stage or...
We will give you guidance on the first quarter call.
But to your point we've sustained this now for multiple quarters over a couple of years.
And we're still kind of -- to use -- since we're in the World Series time a baseball vernacular this recovery feels like it's the bottom of the third or fourth inning to us right now.
So there's a little bit of a runway yet here.
And we think we're in good position to capitalize on it.
The next question is coming from the line of Dmitry Silversteyn with Longbow Research.
Most of my questions have been answered but I'd like to follow-up on a couple of things.
First of all back in your Investor Day you've given the presentation on the Consumer Group there were some hints that you guys are working on some programs.
Perhaps to get into various distribution channels.
Is there any updates there? Should we be expecting something from the Consumer Group besides the programs that you already have and the products that you already supplied to various distribution channels? Yes here again Dmitry we've been very consistent on this messaging point with the investment community.
We've been working on expanding our Consumer Group business forever.
And we've always been clear that we are willing to sell into these channels with the great platform of brands we have.
The real opportunity would be on our architectural paint program in one of the big box players.
And we just have been clear about our unwillingness to put the Sherwin-Williams contractor program brands into those platforms.
But fairly now we've always believe we have an awful lot to offer.
So those efforts continue as they have for some period of time.
And if anything ever changes you'll be among the first to know.
All right fair enough.
Just a follow-up on the Consumer Group.
How much of the either percentage of sales or if you can just sort of ballpark for us sort of the size of the business how much of that business goes into the independent retail channel? In other words the stores that are not owned by companies and not DIY but independent paint stores.
Yes.
So all the sales in that segment are external sales that doesn't go through any of our stores.
There are some industrial coatings businesses in the aerosols for example that we would sell to the MRO industry.
But I'm going to just guess that we're probably talking about a solid 80% of it is going into the traditional home improvement retailing channels.
I understand that.
But my question was specifically on the independent paint store channel.
A very small portion of that.
A small portion? Okay.
And then finally can you provide any updates if there are any on the what's going on with the California lead decision and where you stand on appeals and sort of what you're doing right now? Yes.
Dmitry as you know the judgment was centered against 3 of the defendant companies in the first quarter of this year.
We have filed an appeal and we filed our appeal briefs on September 16.
We are now awaiting the plaintiff's response to those briefs.
And once filed we will have an opportunity to prepare responses to their briefs.
And the short story is that we expect briefing to go on until year end or maybe even into first quarter '15 following which the court will schedule oral arguments.
And we believe the court is likely to take through 2015 or more likely into '16 to render a decision.
At that point we believe the loser will appeal to the California Supreme Court which is likely to take another 2 years plus.
Okay.
So nothing to worry about as far as cash outlays in the major way until we get to the end of the decade at least? We have years to resolve this yes.
And then just -- I'm sorry to keep revisiting this unpleasantness.
But any updates on the cross suits that you and Comex owners have filed against each other? Yes our lawsuit in the State of New York has been stayed indefinitely but the arbitration process is ongoing.
And the timing of the arbitration is uncertain but it is moving forward.
Our next question is coming from the line of Richard O'Reilly with Revere Associates.
A couple of quick questions.
When I -- when we look at the Consumer Group the absolute profit went up $6 million or so for the quarter.
But I'm surprised it's the increase in Paint Sales Stores was $250 million and the inter-segment sales for the Consumer Group was $110 million up $110 million.
I just would have thought more of a flow-through to the bottom line for the Consumer Group than the $6 million.
Am I missing something there? Well the only thing you're missing is that we also had a $1.9 million loss in the Consumer Group related to the Comex acquisition.
And so -- with your number when you take a look at it the flow-through of -- on the internal sales will change from quarter-to-quarter due to sales mix but I think that's the only thing you're missing quite honestly.
Okay.
It's nothing out of the what should be -- or what would be normal for that size of the -- for the growth in retail sales? Right.
Right.
Okay.
Okay.
Second question is in Latin America you talked about increasing raw material cost.
What is -- what's increasing in Latin America that's not going up in North America? Yes.
Actually nothing.
But Latin America buys the majority of its raw materials in U.S.
dollar denominations and sells the finished goods in local currency.
So that devaluation is been a pretty good headwind for us in South America -- Latin America.
We do have a follow-up question coming from the line of John McNulty with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So with regard to the Comex stores I believe you'd indicated on prior calls that you were looking for margins to be kind of in the upper-single digits in 2015.
Is that still the case? And if not can you give us an update just to how to think about that? Yes.
And John what we tried to do because we were sort of mixing apples and oranges.
And what happened there was we'd given EPS guidance for 2014.
And that's why we switched the metric to the EPS for 2015 the $0.08 to $0.13 positive or $0.36 to $0.41 improvement.
Operating margins are going to be positive.
What happened was we originally gave a 60% of current stores when our stores were in the 14% range.
And then our stores jumped to 16% and we're not going to be at 60% of that.
And again we're going to have margin improvement.
And so that metric didn't work anymore.
So we still feel pretty good about the operating margins.
If you back out -- if you go up from $0.08 to $0.13 it's going to show you that we're going to have to be in the mid-single digits operating margins in the stores to hit that number.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Wells for any additional or concluding comments.
Thanks again Jesse.
As always I'll be available for the balance of today tomorrow and throughout the coming week to answer any follow-up questions you have.
We want to thank you again for joining us this morning and thanks for your continued interest in Sherwin-Williams.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
We thank you for your participation and you may disconnect your lines at this time.
Good afternoon.
Thank you for joining the Sherwin-Williams Company's review of Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Results and Expectations for 2015.
This conference call is being webcast simultaneously in listen-only mode by Vcall via the Internet at www.sherwin.com.
An archived replay of this webcast will be available at www.sherwin.com beginning approximately 2 hours after this conference call concludes and will be available until Wednesday February 18 2015 at 5:00 p.m.
Eastern Standard time.
Following the company's year-end financial results and outlook for 2015 we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the call over to Bob Wells Senior Vice President Corporate Communications.
Thank you Roya.
Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us.
We appreciate your interest in Sherwin-Williams.
We're going to begin the call today with some prepared remarks by Chris Connor our Chairman and CEO; and John Morikis President and Chief Operating Officer.
Following their remarks we will open the call to questions and Sean Hennessy our Chief Financial Officer; and Al Mistysyn Vice President and Corporate Controller are with us this afternoon to participate in the Q&amp;A session.
Before I pass the microphone to Chris let me remind you that this conference call will include certain forward-looking statements as defined under U.S.
federal securities laws with respect to sales earnings and other matters.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A full declaration regarding forward-looking statements is provided in our earnings release transmitted earlier this morning.
In the interest of time as usual we've provided some balance sheet items and other selected financial information on our website sherwin.com under Investor Relations Quarterly Results Fourth Quarter.
With that let me turn the call over to Chris.
Thanks Bob and good afternoon everybody.
I want to begin by thanking you for accommodating our very late change in the scheduled time for this call.
A long-tenured senior executive of our company and a good friend to all of us on this side of the line lost a 26-year-old son unexpectedly this week.
This morning was our only opportunity to pay our respects to this fine family and participate in the memorial service an opportunity we couldn't pass up.
We thank you for your understanding and your willingness to alter your busy schedules to be with us on the call this afternoon.
With that let me turn the call over to John to review our performance for the fourth quarter and full year 2014.
I'll be back after his comments to share a few thoughts of my own.
John? Thanks Chris and good afternoon everyone.
Looking back on 2014 2 prominent themes stand out in my mind.
The first is the continued strength of our operating results during the year with record sales record EBITDA record net income and earnings per share.
The second is that we accomplished these financial milestones while continuing to make prudent investments in our future.
As a result we're entering 2015 very well positioned to grow market share and deliver even stronger sales and earnings.
Our consolidated sales in the fourth quarter increased 4.6% to $2.57 billion due primarily to higher paint sales volume through our Paint Stores Group.
For the full year sales increased 9.3% to $11.13 billion.
Acquisitions had no effect on consolidated net sales growth in the quarter but increased sales approximately 3.1% in the full year.
Currency translation rate changes decreased consolidated net sales 2.3% in the quarter and 1.4% for the year.
Consolidated gross margin in the fourth quarter increased to 47.4% of sales from 45.8% of sales in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The increase in gross margin in the quarter was primarily due to improved fixed cost absorption from increased sales volumes the TiO2 settlement detailed in our third quarter 10-Q and year-over-year progress from the Comex acquisition.
For the year gross margin increased to 46.4% of sales from 45.3% of sales last year.
The increase in gross margin for the year was primarily due to increased sales volumes partially offset by acquisitions.
Selling general and administrative expense in dollars increased $23.1 million in the fourth quarter compared to fourth quarter last year but decreased as a percent of sales to 38.3% from 39.2% in the same quarter last year.
For the full year 2014 SG&amp;A expense increased $355.3 million to $3.82 billion an increase as a percent of sales to 34.3% from 34% in 2013.
Incremental SG&amp;A from acquisitions new stores and customer service investments accounted for the majority of the SG&amp;A increase in the year.
Other general expense increased $28.2 million in the fourth quarter and $35 million for the year due primarily to higher environmental accruals in both periods.
Interest expense for the quarter decreased $1.5 million to $15.4 million.
For the year interest expense was $64.2 million compared to $62.7 million in 2013.
Profit before tax in the fourth quarter increased 26.6% to $188.9 million and for the full year increased 15.9% to $1.26 billion.
Our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter 2014 increased to 29.7% from 22.2% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
For the year our effective tax rate was 31.2% compared to 30.7% in 2013.
Our effective tax rate in the fourth quarter and full year 2013 were favorably impacted by the integration of Comex stores and would have been 32.3% and 32.1% respectively without Comex.
Consolidated net income for the quarter increased $16.6 million to $132.7 million.
For the year net income increased $113.3 million to $865.9 million.
Net income as a percent of sales in the quarter increased to 5.2% from 4.7% last year.
For the year net income as a percent of sales increased to 7.8% from 7.4% in 2013.
Diluted net income per common share for the fourth quarter 2014 increased to $1.37 from $1.14 per share in the fourth quarter 2013.
For the year diluted net income per common share increased 20.9% to $8.78 per share from $7.26 per share in 2013.
Now let me take a few minutes to break down our performance by segment.
Sales by our Paint Stores Group in the fourth quarter 2014 increased 8% to $1.58 billion thanks to higher paint sales volumes across all customer segments.
For the year net sales increased 14.2% to $6.85 billion.
This full year sales increase was also driven by higher paint sales volumes across all customer segments plus the Comex acquisition.
The acquisition increased Paint Stores Group net sales 4.5% for the full year.
Comparable store sales increased 7.5% in the quarter and 8.8% in the year.
Regionally in the fourth quarter our Southeastern division led all divisions followed by Southwestern division our Midwestern division and our Eastern division.
Fourth quarter segment profit for the Paint Stores Group increased 46.9% to $247.5 million from $168.5 million in the fourth quarter last year due primarily to higher year-over-year paint sales volumes and improved operating results from the acquired Comex stores.
For the full year Paint Stores Group profit increased 21.3% to $1.2 billion from $990.5 million in 2013.
The increase in segment profit for the year resulted from higher paint sales volumes that were partially offset by higher SG&amp;A expenses and a loss from acquisitions.
Acquisitions reduced full year segment profit by $32.3 million.
Segment profit margin for the fourth quarter increased to 15.6% from 11.5% last year.
Profit margin for the full year 2014 increased to 17.5% from 16.5% in 2013.
Turning now to the Consumer Group.
Fourth quarter external net sales increased 1.6% to $276.9 million due primarily to higher volume sales for most of the group's retail customers.
For the year Consumer Group sales increased 5.9% to $1.42 billion as a result of acquisitions and increased order volume for most of the group's retail customers.
Acquisitions increased net sales by 3.4% in the year.
Segment profit for the fourth quarter decreased to $30.3 million from $36 million in fourth quarter 2013 primarily as a result of higher operating costs in advance of the HGTV HOME by Sherwin-Williams program rollout at Lowe's.
For the year segment profit increased 4.5% to $259.2 million from $242.1 million in 2013.
This increase was primarily due to higher sales volume and improved operating efficiencies partially offset by the higher operating costs related to the Lowe's rollout.
Acquisitions had no significant impact on segment profit in the full year.
Consumer Group segment profit as a percent of sales in the fourth quarter decreased 11% from 13 -- to 11% from 13.2% last year due to higher operating costs from the Lowe's program.
For the year segment profit margin decreased to 17.8% from 18% last year for much the same reason.
For the Global Finishes Group.
Fourth quarter net sales in U.S.
dollars increased 1.1% to $502.4 million and for full year sales decreased 3.8% to $2.08 billion due primarily to selling price increases and higher paint sales volumes partially offset by unfavorable currency translation.
Currency translation decreased sales in U.S.
dollars by 4.1% in the quarter and 1.6% in the year.
Stated in U.S.
dollars Global Finishes Group segment profit in the fourth quarter increased to $39 million from $37.7 million last year.
The increase in segment profit in the quarter resulted from increased operating efficiencies and higher year-over-year selling prices partially offset by unfavorable currency translation of $10.2 million.
For the year segment profit increased 17.9% to $201.1 million from $170.6 million last year.
This full year profit improvement resulted from increased operating efficiencies selling price increases and a $6.3 million gain on the early termination of a customer agreement reported in the third quarter partially offset by unfavorable currency translation of $13.5 million.
As a percent of net sales Global Finishes Group's operating profit was 7.8% in the fourth quarter compared to 7.6% last year and 9.7% for the year compared to 8.5% in 2013.
For our Latin America's Coatings Group.
Net sales decreased 6.7% to $207.4 million in the fourth quarter and decreased 7.3% to $771.4 million for the full year due primarily to unfavorable currency translation and lower volume sales partially offset by higher year-over-year selling prices.
Currency translation decreased in U.S.
dollars by 13.5% in the quarter and 12.3% in the year.
Stated in U.S.
dollars Latin America Coatings Group segment profit in the quarter decreased to $13 million from $17.9 million last year due primarily to unfavorable currency translation and lower volume sales partially offset by selling price increases.
Unfavorable currency translation decreased segment profit $4.9 million in the quarter.
For the year segment profit increased to $40.5 million from $38.6 million in 2013.
As a reminder in 2013 we incurred charges of $31.6 million to satisfy tax assessments in Brazil.
Unfavorable currency translations decreased profit $15.7 million in the year.
As a percent of net sales segment operating profit was 6.3% in the fourth quarter compared to 8.1% last year and 5.2% for the year compared to 4.6% in 2013.
That concludes my review of our operating results in the fourth quarter and full year 2014 so let me turn the call back over to Chris Connor who will make some general comments and highlight our expectations for 2015.
Thanks John.
It's a pleasure to add a few comments to the strong numbers John just walked you through.
More than $11 billion in sales an increase of almost $1 billion consolidated gross margin above 46% for the first time ever profit before tax that eclipsed $1.25 billion and EBITDA north of $1.5 billion.
All that led to earnings per share up 21% in the year.
As John mentioned in his opening remarks we also measure our success in 2014 by how well the company is positioned going into this year.
We made great progress during the year on integration of the U.S.
and Canadian Comex stores the largest Paint Stores acquisition in our history.
We stabilized sales volumes in these stores and significantly improved product assortment and product availability all of which will result in a positive contribution to the Paint Stores Group operating profit in 2015.
During the year we also realigned our Paint Stores Group and Latin American Coatings Group under a unified management team led by Jay Davisson.
This move will enable us to share expertise between the 2 business units and better leverage our operating technical and supply chain resources which will benefit both organizations in the long run.
In December we announced our first-ever architectural paint program in Lowe's stores nationwide under the HGTV HOME by Sherwin-Williams brand.
We're excited about this program which will begin shipping in early spring just in time for the start of the painting season.
In 2014 we generated more than $1 billion in net operating cash for the second consecutive year thanks in part to the terrific working capital management by all of our operating segments.
In spite of a fourth quarter inventory build to support the HGTV HOME rollout at Lowe's our working capital ratio dropped to 10.1% of sales from 10.5% last year.
This improvement is further evidence of the progress our Paint Stores Group and global supply chain teams have made in integrating the Comex acquisition.
We used this cash from operations along with the excess cash on our balance sheet at the start of the year to fund capital expenditures expand our controlled distribution raise our dividend and buy back shares for treasury.
Our capital expenditures in 2014 totaled $207.9 million.
Depreciation for the year was $169.1 million and amortization was $29.9 million.
In 2015 we anticipate capital expenditures of approximately $240 million depreciation of $170 million to $175 million and amortization of about $30 million.
Capital spending was higher than normal in 2014 and will be again in 2015 as we complete the conversion of Comex store locations to Sherwin-Williams.
We expect CapEx to return to more normal levels beginning in 2016.
In December our Paint Stores Group celebrated the opening of our 4 000th paint store.
For the year we exceeded our initial expectation of opening 80 to 90 new stores and finished the year with 95 net new locations and 4 003 total stores in the U.S.
Canada and the Caribbean.
We remain confident that our goal of 5 000 locations in North America is realistic and we intend to get closer to that goal by 100 to 110 stores this coming year.
During the past year we hired more than 1 400 new college graduates into our management training program to bolster our store staffing improve our territory coverage and fill our store management pipeline.
Although these investments tend to drive SG&amp;A higher in the back half of the year new stores and service employees pay for themselves over a very short period of time.
At year-end our total debt was $1.8 billion and cash on hand was $41 million compared to a cash balance of $745 million at the end of 2013.
In 2014 we've returned more than $1.7 billion in cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
In the fourth quarter we acquired 1.6 million shares of the company stock for treasury bringing our full year total to 6.93 million shares at an average cost of $214.97 per share for a total investment of $1.49 billion.
At year-end we have remaining authorization to acquire another 5.23 million shares.
We paid $215 million in cash to shareholders through quarterly dividends.
2014 marked our 36th consecutive year of increased dividends per share a string we intend to continue.
This year at our February board meeting we will recommend approval of an annual dividend of $2.68 per share an increase of 22% over 2014.
Looking ahead to 2015 the paint and coatings demand in most domestic markets looks encouraging.
Residential starts and turnover gained momentum in the fourth quarter even in the oil patch areas of the South which bodes well for the coming year.
Contracts for new nonresidential square footage were up 7% year-over-year in 2014.
And the pace of demand growth in segments such as office hospitality warehousing and apartment buildings remained strong.
Although the rate of growth in manufacturing activity slowed at year-end December marked the 19th consecutive month of expansion which should drive continued growth in demand for our industrial coatings.
Outside the United States it appears likely that sluggish market conditions and currency devaluation in Europe as well as many Latin American countries will remain a challenge.
Our raw material basket has many moving parts.
But in total we believe we're likely to see stable to declining input costs for this year.
The drop in the price of crude oil if sustained will no doubt have a positive impact on the petrochemical side of our raw material basket.
But these commodities will not necessarily move in a linear relationship with crude.
High-grade chloride TiO2 pricing held steady over the back half of 2014 but soft order volumes and excess inventory suggest pricing should remain stable for the foreseeable future.
Based on these factors we would expect average year-over-year raw material cost inflation for the paint and coating industry to be down in the low single-digit range in 2015.
Our outlook for the first quarter 2015 is for consolidated net sales to increase in the mid-single-digits percentage range compared to last year's first quarter.
With sales at that level we estimate diluted net income per common share in the first quarter will be in the range of $1.30 to $1.45 per share compared to $1.14 per share earned in the first quarter of 2014.
Embedded in this guidance is our expectation that we will incur some onetime expenses related to the rollout of the HGTV HOME program at Lowe's stores.
For the full year 2015 we expect net sales will increase in the high single-digit percentage range compared to full year 2014.
With annual sales at that level we estimate diluted net income per common share for 2015 will be in the range of $10.90 to $11.10 per share compared to $8.78 in 2014.
Again we'd like to thank you for joining us this morning.
And now we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> First off on your sales guidance for '15 calling for a high single-digit increase.
Comparisons in the Paint Stores Group get quite a bit more difficult as the year progresses and then I think you have some headwinds from FX also.
So first off can you maybe parse out the various end-market drivers that will get you towards that sales growth level starting with maybe your expectation for what gallonage growth will be in the U.S.
for '15? Yes Ghansham it's Bob.
As we've often said to hit our guidance range for the full year at high single digits Paint Stores Group would have to be at or above that level and that is certainly our expectation.
We believe that that will outpace gallon growth in the domestic market by again probably close to a factor of 2x.
We would expect low- to mid-single-digit growth in the market probably slightly above the rate of growth in 2014 which we estimate to be more in like the 3.5% range.
So it should pick up.
Also embedded in the consolidated sales guidance is the impact from Lowe's which we've said would be low single-digit lift on consolidated sales.
Research Division</strong> And then in terms of the guidance increase versus your mid-December update I guess is that primarily due to the lower raw material costs that you are now forecasting? Good afternoon.
This is Sean Hennessy.
No I would say that the raw materials when you look at the $10.75 mid-point to $11 mid-point it was mostly driven by raw materials.
There was -- we also had a little more foreign currency.
The sales went from 7 to 11 to high single digits so they have a little more effect on foreign currency.
But there were raws -- and there were other factors but raws were a major part.
Our next question comes from the line of Arun Viswanathan with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I guess just maybe you can just give us an update on what you're hearing from your customers so far.
I know it's still early in the year.
But on the backlog side contractors as well as maybe non-paint items within the stores.
I'd say that our customers are feeling pretty good about their future.
Many of them are looking at bookings that they've said they've not seen in quite some time.
And let's say quarter-after-quarter here recently it seems as though they're becoming more and more bullish.
So I think it's looking very well through the lens of our customers.
As far as the nonpaying sales those are performing very well.
We're seeing strong performance in our sundries and our spray equipment sales.
And as you know we use that -- sorry we use that gauge of the spray equipment sales as a bit of an indicator for us as to the confidence of the contractors so those bode well for us.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you have seen some I guess building backlogs there.
And then is there any kind of difference between trends that you're seeing in res versus nonres especially in the U.S.? In terms of the macro data that we're looking at we're seeing nonres actually outpace res in starts for 2014.
Going forward we think that the housing activity should pick up we'll see solid growth out of both of those segments.
It's a little early to tell which one is going to grow better in 2015 but we would expect solid growth from both of them.
Our next question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about your store concentration in some of the areas or states that from a real estate perspective might face some difficulties with the reduction in oil prices? Yes.
So Vincent our store concentration we've shared that density map with the investment community.
I think it's up on the website.
You can pull it down and take a look at it.
Obviously you'll see Texas is a strong state for us as is Oklahoma.
Those are 2 markets where oil matters.
I think in our comments we made the notion that even in the oil-rich states we're seeing good demand for our products.
The residential repaint activities which are still not running at kind of a normalized level we think will continue to carry through even though there might be a little softness in some of these oil numbers.
But as Bob has commented it's a little bit early to see the full impact of that.
But we're not expecting or anticipating any fall off on the kind of guidance we're giving for those reasons.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up.
Year-over-year with the winter we had last year versus what we had this year is there anything we should be thinking about in terms of sort of comparisons not knowing what the weather is going to be for the next several months but is there anything we need to be thinking about there? Well if you're living in New York or Boston today you need to be thinking about a snow shovel I would imagine and it's pretty ugly in Cleveland right now.
So our comment on winter has been pretty consistent for the last several decades is there are going to be pockets in our country that are going to have really ugly stretches here.
We'll have stores that will be closed.
We'll have customers that are unable to get out and do the amount of work that they had planned to do.
But that's just kind of embedded in the fourth quarter and our expectations.
We're blessed with an industry which really catches up well in the second and third quarter.
So we're not giving any kind of indication that winter weather will ever have an impact here.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan Chase.
Research Division</strong> When you look across your customer base which parts of your customer base are more aggressive about trying to capture some of falling raw materials? And which parts of your customer base are less aggressive about trying to capture those lower values? Yes so I think it's fair to say Jeff that all of our customers are smart businesspeople.
They pay close attention.
In the case of the professional painting contractors their focus has primarily been on ensuring that they have enough labor to complete the strong demand that they have for their products right now.
So we're holding pricing this year.
We've made that announcement earlier that we were not raising prices.
That activity has been well received by them.
And we don't expect as we have in the past that these raw material fallbacks occasionally like we're seeing right now will impact our selling prices at all.
Research Division</strong> What about in the Consumer segment.
Is -- are the attitude -- or are the attitudes of the retailers much different than the attitudes of the paint contractors? We don't comment on any one specific customer in that segment as you know Jeff.
And again we would just -- would say the same thing.
They're paying close attention.
They want outstanding products and outstanding service at a fair value and we're working hard to provide that every day.
Our next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> It's Dan Jester on for P.J.
So if I remember correctly typically your store openings have been back-end loaded throughout the year.
But I think in early 2014 you had stated that you were going to try to maybe make it a little bit more even throughout the year but in the end it was still a little bit back-end loaded.
So as we think about this 100 to 110 new stores this year is it still going to be back-end loaded in 2015? Or any chance that it's going to be a little bit more even throughout the year? Dan I wish you could see the smile on my face.
We try to level-load those every year and we push hard to do that and we'll be pushing again this year to do that.
We've got a terrific real estate team and a good market out there.
We're working hard to spread those out a little more evenly but we'll get them in as best as we can in the right locations at a great price.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then on foreign exchange and Latin America specifically it still looks like foreign exchange is going to be a big headwind going into the first half of 2015.
So is there anything you can do to kind of accelerate improvement in that business? Or is that something we just have to wait out until currency moves in a better direction? I think that when it comes to improving our cash flows and doing hedges we can do that on the balance sheet side and the cash flow side.
But on the sales side there's nowhere to run.
I mean when you start to see Mexico right now at 14x 14.5x and then last year we're in about the 12.60 there's really nothing -- nowhere you can hide when it comes to sales.
But we're doing everything we can to mitigate the cash flow.
But in -- operationally we continue to work on that and that's -- and I think when you see more of a flattening of the foreign currency then you're going to be able to see the improvements there.
Our next question comes from the line of Duffy Fischer with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A question around kind of each of your architectural competitors here in the U.S.
so Masco Valspar PPG have all had a fairly sizable announcement around contractor business through one of the big boxes in call it the last 18 months or so which seems to be a bigger push than we've seen historically.
Do you see any difference in the way they're approaching that market where they may have more success than efforts like that have had in the past? Or is there a splintering of that contract or subsegment that may make them more likely to use the big boxes going forward? Duffy we've seen a number of initiatives over the years.
And quite frankly our focus is on really executing our strategy.
We love our model.
We love the relationships that we have.
And we're continuing to build on what we believe are the right things.
And most importantly is just understanding that customer and building a relationship and the products and services that they need having the right people the best people in the industry that are partners with those people.
So I'm respectful of all of our competitors.
I think they keep us honest.
We're blessed to have good competitors.
But we've got a lot of confidence in what we're doing and we're going to continue to do it and try to get better every day.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just 2 questions about the international market.
One with what happened in Mexico with Comex has your existing business down there suffered at all from any of the maturations that happened around that number one.
And then two just with where currencies have gone would purchasing foreign assets be more attractive today than maybe it was a year ago for you guys? So Duffy on the Latin American business we made the comment that in local currency we actually generated sales gains both in the quarter and for the year.
And I think that the relative softness in that while they were positive they weren't robust really speaks more to the broader economic environment in the big economies of Brazil Mexico Argentina and Chile than perhaps any things that were happening in the industry.
Those are the issues that we need to get on top of and address and fix going forward.
And when you asked about the acquisitions the way we do it is we look at after-tax discounted cash flows.
If we can get our cash back operationally and it's a good business we really don't worry about the instantaneous or the current exchange rate.
And I'll tell you why.
A lot of times when we go into these countries we don't put our cash in there we actually will borrow in local currency to create a natural hedge.
We try to do that as much as possible and let the operation pay that note off.
So we're more interested in what we can do with that business and with the long-term business not the instantaneous foreign exchange conversion rate.
Our next question comes from the line of Aram Rubinson with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> So I wanted to ask you just on the math around inputs.
So we know that your gross margins are 46% which means that your cost of sales are 54%.
If 85% of that is raw materials that's about 45% of the house of revenues that's raws.
I think you've said in the past that a 10-point move in oil is about a 1% change in the underlying inputs.
So if we've got a 40% change in oil I'm kind of getting about 150 basis point accretion to the total which would be over $1 in earnings.
So I'm just wondering what I'm missing in the math or where we're reinvesting along the way.
Aram we mentioned when we cited that 10% versus the slightly less than 1% relationship between crude and our raw material basket that that was an older analysis.
And what we've done is gone back and not just looked at the input -- or the impact of crude but the impact of crude oil derivatives like propylene and ethylene.
And propylene and ethylene are really the key inputs for the resin basket which is about 40% of the raw material basket.
And what we've found is that in broad terms a 10% reduction in propylene would result in about -- I'm sorry a $0.10 reduction in propylene would result in about a $0.015 decline in the price of a pound of latex $0.015 to $0.02 decline.
And the same relationship with a $0.10 decline in ethylene you'd have about a $0.01 decline in the price of a pound of latex.
So we've updated the guidance.
It's not quite as sensitive to crude oil as it was when we did the last analysis.
We also get some benefit in the alkyd resin basket and in solvents so -- which would too would be roughly a 10% move in crude would be a 0.2% move in the raw material basket from those 2 inputs.
The point being there's a lot of moving parts.
It's just not quite as sensitive as it was when we did the old analysis largely because we don't use as many petrochemical inputs as we used to.
And Aram when you talk about the dollar and you look at -- we move the guidance mid-point from $10.75 to $11 we had raw material goodness in the $10.75.
We didn't have 0 and now what we're doing is putting 100% of it to get to $11.
The $10.75 so when you look at $8.78 to the mid-point of $11 that's $2.22 over 25% one of the largest increases we've ever put out here as a company.
So the -- we weren't saying that 100% of the raw material goodness was taken up from $10.75 to $11.
What we said is $10.75 to $11 was driven by the difference of what our view is of raw materials from December 12 until today.
LLC</strong> And was that kind of flat to now down low singles? Was that the change? Well I don't think we're going to get to that detail of going from our guidance on December 12 until today to show you all the puts and takes in each one of the gross margin or SG&amp;A or even conversion rates foreign currency.
LLC</strong> And my follow-up if it's all right is just in the Paint Stores Group.
We tried to back out Comex just to see what the legacy stores were doing and it looks like you guys are kind of pushing about 19% segment margins in the core Sherwin-Williams Paint Stores Group.
And I just wasn't sure if that trajectory still had some legs to it or if you had designs on kind of capping that at some point.
Any thoughts on that? No we really don't have any ideas on capping it.
And one of the things about it what we've said Aram is with the larger the gallon gains that more flow-through we're going to have.
So we had a very good gallon year.
Our next question comes from the line of John McNulty with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Looking at the numbers it looks like Comex was less dilutive.
It looks like it was actually breakeven in the fourth quarter.
And I think your previous guide it kind of implied it was about a 10% -- or excuse me $0.10 headwind.
So I guess what came out better than expected? Was it just the costs weren't there? Or are the assets actually performing better that you thought? And I guess how should we be thinking about the Comex add as we look to '15 then? All right John we lost $0.10 in Comex in the fourth quarter.
I think that the reason you might be looking at it that way is if you think about the comments that John made about the full year Consumer was relatively flat.
I think that you have to take a look at some of that losses it was in the Consumer Group for some of the -- from some of the product lines that they've -- they acquired there.
But in total the company lost $0.10 a share right on the forecast.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then just one last question.
On the Lowe's ramp-up and the costs around that do you recoup those or do you catch up on them at any point this year? Or is it more of a 2016 time frame when you kind of get the margins in Consumer back to normal? Yes.
I would tell you this that again we're going to have expenses in all 4 quarters for Lowe's.
We're going to have sales mostly in the last 3.
We do catch up for the calendar year 2015.
It's very very slightly accretive.
But it's -- really 2016 is when we feel we'll see the lion's share of that accretion.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I think you spoke to this partially but I was wondering if you could perhaps walk us through some of the macro assumptions that you're embedding in your 2015 EPS range of $10.90 to $11.10 in terms of perhaps existing home sales starts nonres and maybe most notably FX where you're marking that? Yes Kevin we -- this is Bob again.
We didn't really tie our guidance to any particular metric in existing home sales or starts.
We start from the standpoint that 75% to 80% of the residential market -- paint sold into the residential market is used to repaint existing structures.
Only part of that is sold by existing -- is driven by existing home turnover.
We do think turnover will be higher in '15 than it was in '14.
We certainly saw an upward inflection in existing home sales in the fourth quarter.
And we think that bodes well for the coming year.
We also saw that in starts a little stronger new home sales and starts numbers later in the year.
So we feel we have a lot of momentum going into 2015.
Importantly if you look at inventories of both new and existing homes they are at 5.5 and 4.5 months' supply respectively which are well below where both of those metrics should be.
So we have some catch-up on the inventory side in new homes.
We think that as inventory comes into the market in existing homes it's going to drive that -- drive sales stronger.
And then in addition to that there is the whole nonresidential piece which we see as picking up as well.
Research Division</strong> And presumably on the currency you're just marking it recent days.
Is that fair? Yes I think when you take a look at it especially the way currency really drove down in the fourth quarter I think that we do -- our forecast is we're going to have a headwind a significant headwind especially in the first 3 quarters.
Research Division</strong> And then a second one.
I apologize if I missed this but did you size the expenses in the quarter in Consumer related to the operating cost on HGTV HOME? No we did not.
Again we're not going to do a P&amp;L by customer or rank anything out to that finite when it comes to any one single customer.
Our next question comes from the line of Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> On SG&amp;A it grew a little bit more year-on-year than it has in the past.
And just curious if this is sort of a new level to expect? Or do you expect the SG&amp;A growth to sort of moderate in '15 and '16? Right.
I think that this year our SG&amp;A was up 0.003% really driven by Comex stores and the Comex acquisition.
We were pretty upfront saying that that was going to happen.
As the integration continues to happen we aren't -- we also did -- we've done some work -- we've been pretty public about some IT investments that we're making.
But going forward we see a reduction in our SG&amp;A expense as a percent of sales.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just on LatAm I'm noticing some this year some closures.
And historically Sherwin has even in downturns has sort of grown its store base.
So curious as to -- is this a function of a different view on LatAm macro? Or is it rightsizing your asset base? Just why there's been a retrenchment in stores versus the normal Sherwin strategy to grow? That's not our strategy.
I'm not quite sure where you're getting the data closing...
Yes we did have a couple of closings of some -- down in a few countries such as Brazil but it was -- it had more to do with just what we're going to do in that local very local market not a strategy for other countries.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Chris I think a quick and easy one because most of the good questions have been taken.
But have you guys noticed yet detected any sense of enhanced or improved consumer-buying behavior in light of the sort of tax relief on fuel costs? No and we wouldn't see that in the fourth or first quarter Bob.
As you know those are the slow quarters for the industry.
We've seen pretty strong consumer purchasing throughout the year driven by pent-up demand better home values all the other metrics that we've been talking about.
When we get into the start of the spring painting season if oil prices are still here and it costs a little less to fill up your car maybe that will have a little bit of a lift impact as well too.
But regardless of that we're giving guidance that we expect this to be a good year.
Research Division</strong> And Sean I think you'd said you're getting the expense burden for the HGTV and then most of the revenue benefit rolls in starting in the second quarter.
Do you actually get a sellthrough when you place that inventory? Or is it only as the retailer books the consumer sale? Right.
I mean when they'd have a sale and they reorder then we definitely have a sale to them.
We book the sale when we ship to Lowe's.
Our next question comes from the line of Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> So I really don't want to get too specific on that -- the load-in costs in the first quarter but how should we think about the segment margin there either relative to the fourth quarter or relative to year-over-year? I think that you're going to see our -- in the first quarter our Consumer Group margin will be lower.
And it'll be lower because of the load-in -- the costs that we have.
For the full year we think it's going to be -- as I've said you're going to see very little effect of the Lowe's business being depressive on the margin for the Consumer Group.
LLC</strong> And when you say lower Sean you're saying sequentially lower or year-over-year lower? Year-over-year I'm sorry.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And Chris it seems like other than maybe some -- some of the international uncertainty in currency the domestic market you feel pretty good about.
Is there anything domestically that on the margin you see as a higher risk to the business or something that you're keeping a particularly close eye on? I think Bob's taken you through a couple of the important end-market data points we look at.
We've talked in this call Dennis for a number of years about the lagging commercial or institutional construction market which looks better to us heading into this year than it has for the last 7 years.
We've commented on residential and no one knows that better than you what that's potential will look like and the existing home maintenance schedules look strong as well.
And finally just to piggyback on John's earlier comments about the anecdotal conversations we're having with our painters who have got as book of business as strong as they've had in a while.
So from a domestic architectural platform 2015 should be a good year.
Our next question comes from the line of Dmitry Silversteyn with Longbow Research.
Just one quick bookkeeping question what's the tax rate guidance for 2015 as far us on the P&amp;L not -- the effective tax rate not the cash tax? Right.
The effective tax rate should be in that low 30s.
We had a pretty good -- the last 2 years.
And that's why in John's comments he told you what the tax rate was.
It was in the 32s without the Comex acquisition.
We're going to be in that ballpark.
Okay.
So about 32% 33% something like that.
And you talked a little bit about Latin America and kind of how you're viewing things there.
Can you talk -- I mean I know Europe is not a big market for you yet but I'm sure it's something that you look at carefully both from an M&amp;A perspective as well as the growth of the businesses that you do acquire over time.
We've heard some companies talk about the second half of the year maybe being a little bit stronger on lower gas pricing and more money in the pocket of consumers so to speak and maybe a little bit more competitive industrial economy given the deflation in both the currency and the crude oil.
Sort of what's your view of the businesses particularly in the industrial side of the Coatings business where you're at in Europe on that region for 2015? Yes Dmitry.
So as you know our exposure to Europe is almost entirely industrial coatings and weighted towards industrial wood finish coatings.
A lot of those customers are manufacturing products that then get exported out of that region as well too.
So we've commented historically about our low share position.
Despite some rougher economic environments we expect to make progress given that position.
We've got good technology and a good team on the ground.
We've worked hard to solidify and improve our operations.
You've seen that in the global group margins.
Coming up a lot of that's been worked on Europe and our expectations are that we'll have a positive growing year in Europe as well.
Okay.
One of the segments that has been sort of depressed for a long period of time really since the 2008 2009 recession and showed some signs of coming out in 2014 and I was just wondering what your outlook on that would be for 2015 was the marine and protective business.
There is a couple of companies with exposure to it in the group of companies that I cover that's looked to be sounding a little bit more bullish about marine and protective especially.
You've grown through this downturn with your business.
How do you view it going into 2015? Well I'd say it's going to be choppy which is appropriate for a marine response I suppose.
But as we look forward we play a niche market -- play in the niche market there.
We kind of carve out our space.
And again just as we've described in other markets where our market share overall is lower we've got plenty of opportunity to grow regardless of the market.
So I think overall there's going to be some ups and downs there but we feel as though there is still opportunity for us to grow.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Melich with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of follow-up questions really getting to the Paint Stores Group.
You mentioned I think volume for the industry you thought was up 3.5x and you were 2x that for the year.
How did the fourth quarter play out in terms of volume versus mix and price? It was pretty -- I would say it was very comparable to that.
I mean we saw -- the numbers were -- we're starting to see the Comex stores come into the comp stores in the fourth quarter.
And you're seeing that.
That was a little depressive.
But in total we still -- we sit there and feel that we were probably still growing twice the market in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> And is it fair then to say that there was a point or 2 of mix and price as well in that that 7.5? Yes yes.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then the second and I -- just a little bit of a housekeeping one.
When you have the $0.16 share charge does that include -- is that the net effect including the titanium dioxide settlements? Or is that different from the $0.16? The $0.16...
Well it was $22 million for the titanium dioxide -- or I'm sorry.
Pardon me.
Right.
Yes.
When you -- I'm trying to remember where that $20 million -- when we had the titanium dioxide which was $21 million we had to net that for taxes.
So that's where the $0.16 comes from.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then lastly and at the risk of going back to this one more time so I make sure I heard it clearly the start-up costs for the HGTV Lowe's program was basically the only reason for the Consumer margin decline in the fourth quarter.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And it sounds like you expect a similar pressure in the first quarter? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
Could you Sean just repeat to start off with the 2015 CapEx number? I missed it before when you were giving us those numbers.
Yes in the $240 million.
And again that's really being driven by the refurbishment of the Comex stores.
Okay.
Great.
And then yes my next question is about Comex.
Sean how do you expect their contribution in 2015 to phase into the quarterly earnings space? They lost some money in the fourth quarter.
Are they suddenly profitable in the first? Or how do you see that shaping up? When we look at it we talked about the $0.10 a share I would say that we're looking that in the first and fourth quarter we'll be slightly negative.
And in the second and third quarter we're going to make probably 10-plus in those 2 quarters.
And I would say it's about even between the second and third quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of John Roberts with UBS.
Research Division</strong> When I look at the Brazilian real last year it actually rallied in the late spring and into the summer.
Is the most difficult currency comp going to be in the second quarter? The fourth quarter was $0.09.
Are we looking at materially above $0.09 when we get on to the second quarter this year? Right.
When you were talking about the Brazilian real if you look at it it was in the 2.22 2.23 to 1.
That's really going to be the biggest hurdle for us in the year 2015.
In the first quarter it was closer to the 2.40.
So the 2.65 versus 2.40.
If it stays at 2.65 it's 2.65 versus that 2.22 2.23 in the second quarter last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the earlier question about low gasoline prices potentially stimulating consumer demand I mean the outdoor market is what seasonally picks up later in the year which would be much less consumer that's there.
The consumer market would be mostly indoor and I would think you would see some signs of that here during the winter as well if that was going to happen.
Yes that's accurate that the indoor market is -- or the interior paint market is more of a 12-month than the exterior one for sure.
But if you look at our traditional sales bell curve we're going to see even in pickup and interior gallons in the second and third quarter.
I think the reality is is that we're having terrific gallon performance this year through those stores.
So is the reaction because oil prices are lower or because people have more confidence and home values are up it's just time to repaint? We're not smart enough to put our finger on exactly what it is.
We're just out there working hard to get every one of those incremental gallons as we can.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research Company.
One question on Comex.
Could you remind us of the earnings impact of that business in '14 and then '15 and '16? And you can frame it on an earnings or on a margin basis but curious on where that is pacing.
You also seemed to indicate that it's still comping below the core and I'm curious on your expectation of how that would work its way through the system and what your outlook is for that.
Yes Eric.
We lost $0.02 in the third quarter 2013.
We lost $0.11 in the fourth quarter 2013.
So we lost $0.13 in the calendar year 2013.
This year we lost $0.28 $0.10 of which was in the fourth quarter.
So we lost $0.18 in the first 3 quarters.
So really when you look at that $0.11 in the fourth quarter of 2013 $0.10 this year it was relatively flat.
We've said that we're going to make $0.10.
Now we have annualized this acquisition and that's pretty much the amount of color that we're really going to give.
I think as it becomes a higher degree of integration it's harder to actually pinpoint the exact numbers.
But to give you any more color around sales going forward in '16 or '17 we're just not going to be able to do it.
I think Eric as you know our strategy moving forward as they become a Sherwin-Williams store those products are going to be available.
Those customers are using those accounts already in different stores.
So our strategy is to make that more of a customer-efficient store.
And that means more Sherwin products available in any of the stores including those that are acquired through Comex.
I think that -- and that's helpful.
I think the vision -- or in the past the thinking was that it would get to a comparable margin as the stores grew up an upper teens margin.
It felt like that was kind of a '16 event.
Is that still the way we should think about it? Or -- and I understand it's now consolidated within the business but how we should we think about where the margin is going? Yes I think that's a very good way to think about it.
By '16 these stores will have been in our family now for 2.5 3 years and that's when they're running at a core level.
Our next question comes from the line of Christopher Perrella with Bloomberg Intelligence.
How many of the Comex stores are left to refurbish at this point? And how should I think about run rate CapEx next year...
Yes we have about -- of the 306 we acquired we have 294 still.
That looks like a good number going forward.
We had about 1/3 of them converted this year.
So just shy of 200 yet to go.
All right.
And what should CapEx be when it returns to normal I guess as a percent of sales in 2016? Well I think we've always run this company around 1.5%.
I think that 1.5% to 2% is probably a pretty good long-term number.
Our next question comes from the line of Richard O'Reilly with Revere Associates.
Talking about the consumer savings from lower fuel costs would any of that show up in the Finishes Group? I'm thinking wood treatment cabinets home appliances would you see any of that? Sure if we were able to have the laser vision to see through the consumer's incentive for purchasing if they felt a little more confident to make furniture purchases to your point floor covering purchases expansions of their properties all those things would have an impact in the coatings demand.
Okay.
And second thing I guess I'm confused about the Comex because my press release says it lost $0.18 a share in 2014.
And I guess I'm confused.
Yes that was the first 3 quarters.
And I think in the press release I remember the $0.18 also.
I think that that was an incremental $0.18.
So when you were looking at that $0.28 versus last year I guess it's because the share count changes.
When I gave Eric the number of 2 plus 11 that was a 1 share count number.
And this year it was the $0.28 at a different share count.
So the difference was $0.18 one year over the other.
Okay.
Fine.
So you had $0.28 okay versus '13.
Okay.
Fine.
But the press release uses an $0.18 number for the full year.
Okay.
Right.
Thank you.
We have no further questions at this time.
I'd like to hand the call back over to Bob Wells for closing remarks.
Thank you again Roya.
I'd like to wrap up today by asking you to save the date of Thursday May 28 on your calendars.
That's the day we'll host our Annual Financial Community Presentation this year at the Langham Hotel in Boston.
The program will consist of our customary morning presentations with questions and answers followed by a reception and lunch.
Again that date is Thursday May 28 and we'll be sending invitations and related information and a link to our registration site in late March.
So please watch your e-mail.
As usual I'll be available for the remainder of today and tomorrow to answer any follow-up questions.
Thanks again for joining us today and thank you for your continued interest in Sherwin-Williams.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining the Sherwin-Williams Company to review of the First Quarter 2015 Results and Expectations for the Second Quarter and Full Year.
This conference call is being webcast simultaneously in listen-only mode by Vcall via the Internet at www.sherwin.com.
An archived replay of this webcast will be available at the www.sherwin.com beginning approximately two-hours after this conference call concludes and will be available until Wednesday May 06 at 5:00 PM Eastern Time.
After the review of the first quarter results we will open the session for questions.
I will now turn the call over to Bob Wells.
Thank you Melissa.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
We're going to begin the call this morning as usual with a brief recap of first quarter 2015 results by John Morikis our President and Chief Operating Officer.
Then Chris Connor our Chairman and CEO will provide some perspective on the quarter and our expectations for second quarter and full year.
Following their remarks we will open the call to questions and Sean Hennessy our Chief Financial Officer and Al Mistysyn Vice President Corporate Controller are with us this morning to participate in the Q&amp;A session.
Before I pass the microphone to John let me remind you that this conference call will include certain forward-looking statements as defined under U.S.
Federal Securities Laws with respect to sales earnings and other matters.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A full declaration regarding forward-looking statements is provided on our earnings release transmitted earlier this morning.
In the interest of time we've also provided some balance sheet items and other selected financial information on our Web site www.sherwin.com under the Investor Relations tab first quarter press release.
With that let me turn the call over to John to review our performance for the first quarter.
Thanks Bob.
If youve listened to our earning calls over the past few quarters you may detect the familiar pattern in todays release.
Once again in the first quarter we saw good momentum in most of our domestic businesses and less favorable results from our non-domestic operations.
Ill begin by highlighting overall Company performance for first quarter 2015 compared to first quarter 2014 then comment on each reportable segment.
Consolidated net sales increased 3.5% to a record of $2.45 billion driven primarily by higher paint sales volumes in our Paint Stores and Consumer Groups.
Unfavorable currency translation decreased consolidated net sales 3.1% in the quarter.
Consolidated gross profit dollars increased $56.5 million in the quarter to $1.13 billion.
Our consolidated gross margin increased 120 basis points in the quarter to 46.2% of sales from 45% in the first quarter last year.
Most of the gross margin improvement in this quarter resulted from higher sales by Paint Stores Group our highest gross margin segment and increased operating leverage from higher production and distribution volume.
Selling general and administrative expenses increased $45.1 million over first quarter last year to $929.2 million.
As a percent of sales SG&amp;A increased to 37.9% in the first quarter this year from 37.4% last year due primarily to the incremental investments in the Lowes rollout.
Interest expense decreased $4 million compared to the first quarter last year to $12.4 million.
This decrease was due to the rate difference between the $500 million and five-year notes we retired in fourth quarter of 2014 and the comparable increases in our short-term borrowings.
Consolidated profit before taxes in the quarter increased $27.2 million to $193.2 million due primarily to improved operating results from our Paint Stores Group.
Our effective tax rate in the first quarter this year was 32% compared to 30.5% in the first quarter of 2014.
For the full year of 2015 we expect our effective tax rate to be in the low 30s compared to the last years rate of 31.2%.
Consolidated net income increased $15.9 million to $131.4 million.
Net income as a percent of sales was 5.4% compared to 4.9% in the first quarter last year.
Diluted net income per common share for the quarter increased 21% to $1.38 per share from $1.14 per share in 2014.
Now looking at our results by operating segments.
Sales for our Paint Stores Group in the first quarter of 2015 increased 7.5% to $1.46 billion from $1.36 billion last year.
Comparable store sales sales by stores opened more than 12-calendar months increased 6.4%.
All of the Paint Stores Group sales increase was due to higher organic paint and equipment sales volumes across all end-markets.
Price mix had a negligible impact on sales in the quarter.
Regionally in the quarter our Midwestern Division led all divisions followed by Southeastern Division Eastern Division and our Southwestern Division.
Sales and volumes were positive in every division.
Segment profit for the Group increased $30.3 million or 20.7% to $176.6 million in the quarter as higher paint and equivalent sales volumes were partially offset by higher SG&amp;A spending.
Segment operating margin increased to 12.1% of sales from 10.8% in the first quarter of last year.
For our Latin America Coatings Group first quarter net sales decreased 8.9% to $156.2 million due to unfavorable currency translation that was partially offset by selling price increases.
Volumes in the quarter were slightly positive but currency translation rate changes decreased sales in the U.S.
dollars by 13.9% in the quarter.
Segment profit in U.S.
dollars decreased to $9.5 million in the quarter from $10 million last year.
Segment profit was negatively impacted by higher raw material costs and unfavorable currency translation partially offset by selling price increases.
Currency translation decreased Latin America segment profit by $3.4 million in the quarter.
As a percent of net sales segment operating profit was 5.7% in the quarter compared to 5.5% in the first quarter of 2014.
Now turning to Consumer Group.
First quarter sales increased 8.1% to $351.7 million due primarily to the initial shipment for the HGTV HOME by Sherwin Williams paint program to Lowes stores.
Segment profits for the Consumer Group increased $4.3 million to $55.4 million in the quarter from $51.1 million in the first quarter of last year.
The profit improvement in the quarter was due primarily to increased operating efficiencies that were partially offset by higher SG&amp;A spending related to the HGTV HOME rollout.
Segment profit as a percent of external sales increased to 15.8% from 15.7% in the same period last year.
For our Global Finishes Group sales in U.S.
dollars decreased 5.6% to $459.6 million in the quarter as unfavorable currency translation was partially offset by higher selling prices.
Unfavorable currency translation decreased net sales for the segment 6.9% in the quarter.
First quarter segment profit stated in U.S.
dollars decreased $7.6 million or 16.3% to $38.9 million due primarily to unfavorable currency translation rate changes which decreased segment profit $4.4 million in the quarter.
As a percent of sales segment profit decreased to 8.3% from 9.3% in the same period last year.
That concludes my recap of our results for the quarter.
So I'll turn the call over the Chris Connor who will make some general comments and highlight our expectations for the second quarter and full year.
Chris? Thank you John.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us.
First quarter was a good quarter from a profit perspective but revenue clearly came in a little below our expectations.
This is largely a result of two factors; the impact of unfavorable currency translations on sales was a little worse than we anticipated in our guidance; and HGTV HOME by Sherwin-Williams shipments to Lowe's in the quarter were slightly lower than we expected due entirely the timing.
This combination reduced revenue growth in the quarter by a little more than 150 basis points versus our guidance.
But neither of these factors affect our expectations for the full year in anyway.
We remain bullish in our outlook for both sales and earnings as we were in January.
From a profitability standpoint earnings per share in the quarter grew 21% and consolidated sales growth to 3.5%.
Our incremental margin and consolidated profit before tax was more than 32%.
And as a percent of sales gross profit expanded to 120 basis points operating profit margin improved 60 basis points and profit before tax improved 90 basis points.
SG&amp;A was the only line in the P&amp;L that went to wrong in the quarter and that was by design to support the rollout of HGTV HOME at Lowe's.
Both of our domestic operating segments reported solid sales and profit results in the quarter.
Paint Stores Group got-off to a strong start in January and a soft patch in February but regained their momentum in late March.
Comparable store sales growth of 6.4% in the quarter overcame the drag from the 283 Comex stores now embedded in the comp.
Were encouraged by the fact that the locations weve converted to the Sherwin-Williams format have shown immediate improvement in DIY and residential repaint business the two highest gross margin customer segments.
During the quarter Paint Stores Group opened 21 new stores and closed 14 redundant Comex locations.
Our plan still calls for full year store openings in the range of 100 net new locations.
Today our total store count in the U.S.
Canada and Caribbean stands at 4 010 locations compared to 3 925 one year-ago.
Consumers Groups 8.1% sales increase and 10 basis point improvements in segment profit margin in the quarter both reflect the impact of the HGTV HOME load-ins at Lowe's.
If you back out the Lowe's shipments the Groups core sales in the quarter were roughly flat year-over-year.
The profit margin and incremental sales was only 16.4% due to higher SG&amp;A spending to support the HGTV HOME rollout.
Our Global Finishes Group and Latin America Coatings Group got-off to a slow start for the year due in part to unfavorable currency translations and in part the soft-end market demand.
Both segments however reported positive sales volumes in the quarter but by indeed fall a little short of offsetting negative currency impact.
In spite of the inventory build to support the Lowe's program our working capital ratio decreased to 10.9% from 11% in the first quarter of last year.
If you back out the effect of the Lowe's rollout working capital of sales would have been about 10% at the end of the quarter.
The reduction in working capital combined with the increase in net income more than offset the incremental cash used for Comex store integration and the HGTV HOME rollout in the quarter.
As a result net operating cash in the quarter improved by approximately $28 million compared to our first quarter cash performance last year.
During the quarter we acquired 2.0 million shares of the Company stock or treasury at an average cost of $287.75 per share for a total investment of $575.5 million.
On March 31st we had remaining authorization to acquire 3.23 million shares.
Yesterday our Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.67 per share up 22% from the $0.55 we paid last year.
Our outlook for raw materials continues to evolve as we get further into the year.
The drop in petrochemical feedstock prices combined with steadily improving monomer supply will likely result in declining latex and resin prices in the back-half of the year.
At the same time high grade chloride titanium dioxide pricing has softened a bit from recent quarters due to continued weakness in global demand and excess supply.
From these developments we expect average year-over-year raw material cost for the industry to be down in the mid single-digit range in 2015 compared with low single-digit outlook we gave in our year-end 2014 call.
As I commented in my opening remarks we remain optimistic that U.S.
residential demand for architectural paint will continue to strengthen as we move into the prime painting season.
And were encouraged by growing signs of the robust commercial recovery.
This growth will continue to be offset to some degree by challenging conditions in Latin America and currency headwinds particularly in the first half of the year.
Our outlook for the second quarter of 2015 is for consolidated net sales to increase 6% to 8% compared to last years second quarter.
With sales at that level we expect diluted net income per common share for the second quarter to be in the range of $3.70 to $3.90 per share nearly a 30% increase at the midpoint compared to last years record $2.94 per share.
For the full year 2015 we expect consolidated net sales to increase over 2014 by a high single-digit percentage.
With annual sales at that level we are reaffirming our expectations for full year diluted net income per common share to be in the range of $10.90 to $11.10 per share compared to $8.78 per share apparent in 2014.
Again wed like to thank you for joining us this morning.
And now well be happy to take your questions.
Thank you.
At this time well be conducting a question-and-answer session [Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Please proceed with your question.
First up can you just touch on the competitive environment in the paint industry in the U.S.? Just anecdotally listening to your lot more of promotional focus this year across many channels.
Just wondering what you're seeing.
Ghansham I dont think that were seeing any more aggressive promotional activity than we would typically would at this time of year and were kind of entering into the start of the paint season.
And thats pretty typical for our industry to -- and send traffic and value them with promotions pricings are holding as you can tell by our margin improvement.
So I think it's pretty much business as usual.
And then just in terms of the timing that you called on the HGTV load-in.
Can you just kind of give us some more color on that what drove the shifts specifically? So were very pleased and confident in the rollout and in our revision of product projections.
And whats happened here is that we gave some initial thoughts on how this thing would rollout.
The quarter happened to land in the midst of a pretty major rollout.
So there are some stores that are shipping week maybe two-weeks later than the original plan.
But it's nothing were concerned with and were very confident of the direction and the rollout and way it's going.
And just one final one if I could on what you're seeing if anything different on wage inflation for your U.S.
stores? Ill leave at that.
Thanks so much.
Our wage inflation has been pretty standard for a long time Ghansham based on a formula we look at given the current market and industries we adjust our annual compensation.
Those wages have increased on average 2% to 3% per year for our employee base for many years as they will again this year.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John McNulty with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
So with regards to your 2Q guide it's implying pretty significant lift in the margin on a year-over-year basis on the operating side.
So I guess I am wondering if you can walk us through some of the puts and takes on that.
Is it just you finally have the Lowes platform out and ramps up or I guess how much if its being -- is it just the end of some of the Comex headwinds from last year? I guess if you could kind of walk us through some of the major puts and takes that really give you confidence to hit that kind of a margin level thatd be helpful? This is Sean Hennessy.
Good morning.
When you look at the second quarter and when you look at that guidance going from 294 to the midpoint of 380 our margins I dont think you can get into that kind of the range with that kind of sales gain without having margin expansion.
And the operating margin expansion I think it's going to be -- you're going to see margin expansion in the gross profit line and I think that you're going to see some efficiencies in the SG&amp;A line.
The only way you can get there so -- but I think were coming over coming against the Comex integration.
We feel really good about the Comex integration and this is where the business is at.
I mean we feel very good if we can get gallon.
Its also has to do with the sales curve in the second quarter and in the third quarter the Stores Group in Consumer will be a larger percentage of our total sales.
So a couple of things happened there; number one weve always said an incremental gallon in those two groups are the best incremental gallon flow through as we have in the Company; and number two even though foreign currency is going to be a headwind in the second and third quarter with the sales curve again outside the country be in a smaller percentage of the total that headwind will actually be smaller in the second and third quarter.
It comes back in the fourth quarter.
So all those things are working in that direction.
And I think operationally the Store Group is in great shape and the Consumer Group is in great shape.
And they are going to lead the profit improvement in the second and third quarter.
And then maybe just one follow-up question.
With regard to the HGTV rollout when we think about the actual cost and how they sequence in throughout the year.
I guess how should wed be thinking about kind of the lumpiness of that as youre ramping this up do we see a lot in the first quarter and then it went down or do we just see a lot and then it starts to get offset more by revenues coming in like how should we think about that? I think couple of things there the last quarter I mentioned that we have 12-months of SG&amp;A because it cant just turn on our organization in mid-March.
And we had nine and half months with the sale.
So the first quarter because it is the smallest quarter the SG&amp;A impact was the greatest and that's why you saw in the first quarter our SG&amp;A was 5 times higher than last year.
In the second quarter there is a lot of advertising and lot of SG&amp;A promotions going on in that second quarter.
And then youre going to start seeing the SG&amp;A flat now.
And so -- and I think from the expense second quarter maybe is a largest actually.
But the first quarter is probably the most the toughest comparison for us.
And then you will see the SG&amp;A get to a more normal running rate in the third quarter and fourth quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks very much and good morning everyone.
Just had a question if you we could sort of try to bridge this full year from here and your guidance stay the same.
It sounds like in the quarter you felt like your volumes could have been a little bit better.
You had the issue with the buy-in at Lowes and now youre saying that FX is obviously worse raw materials are going to be better across the balance of the year.
So could you just kind of help us understand what's in treating the guidance the same what are the things like on an underline basis what's gotten better what's gotten worse? And if you shift-out some of the things that are outside of your controls is the year progressing the same or better or worse than you expected three-months ago? I think you did a great job for answering that question.
Well.
I'm looking for some dimension on those issues not just the high level? We began the year with pretty robust guidance EPS in the 25% plus ranges and strong domestic volume and none of those things have changed for us at all.
I think some of these issues are a little bit around the fringe on us.
FX is definitely more of a headwind than we had anticipated at the beginning of the year.
But as you know this is a Company that remains primarily a U.S.
focused revenues story.
So for that end it will be an impact for us but a lumpy that much offsetting that is a little better raw material forecast than we had given you to begin with weve plans for good raw material favorable impact it's getting a little bit better than that.
So you put a couple of those little marginal puts and takes together the real driver as Sean just commented will be the strong results that we're expecting from our Stores Group the Consumer Group in North America in 2015.
Okay and if I could just ask a follow up.
You mentioned that it's related to your Store business that south west was the richest evolved and was that -- is there any particular reason for that or is there anything notable about that or is that just kind of stacked up? It's interesting that you pointed that out.
If you noticed also that Midwestern was the leading division and this time a year it's obviously our Midwestern Division leading.
Clearly some of the weather that impacted south west had a direct impact on their sales.
We don't like to talk about weather.
We keep our heads down and drive our sales.
But it clearly in that Division had an impact.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar with Citigroup.
Please proceed with your question.
Couple of questions on HGTV can you talk about the initial reception of the paints in the stores or is it too early? And what would be the margins on this product compared to your Consumer Group average? So Ill give you some thoughts P.J.
and kind of the early run rate and let Sean comment on the margins that at least what were prepared to say.
As John mentioned we're really right in the middle of this rollout.
May 1st is the official and national rollout day.
We will absolutely be set in every store and ready to go.
Id say we probably have two-thirds of the store set at this point [John].
And so we are starting to see some really strong reorders and excitement inside the aisles at Lowes stores.
The color merchandising unit that is gone in and it's been terrific it's really creating quite a stir.
And so I would say that from every angle that we can look at it this program is really on track with our expectations and off to a good start.
And what we've said P.J.
about the operating margin the only thing we've commented on is a couple of things.
Number one we're not going to put out a P&amp;L by customer we never have loaded a customer P&amp;L and we really are not going to start doing that.
But what we have done is said that this program during the calendar year 2015 will give us low single-digit increase for the Company.
Last year our sales were around -- were just slightly over $11 billion and that gives you an idea of what kind of sales we have in our guidance.
But when it comes to operating margins we've said at the beginning with slightly dilutive in the fourth quarter for some of the expenses and it will be slightly accretive in the calendar year 2015.
And then we're going to see much a nice pop in our operating margins in 2016.
And that's really all were really prepared to say.
And Chris in the past you had talked about your global ambitions and making acquisitions outside the U.S.
with a strong dollar it seems like a good time.
Can you just talk about your price line and what are your thoughts about that? I think we've been very open P.J.
with our investment community regarding our appetite here.
We have a strong interest and continuing to strengthen our architectural coatings platform throughout Latin America.
And we talk about our industrial coatings businesses on a more of a global basis.
And so there are a number of interesting ideas that were discussing.
And at the right time well be happy to let you know about them.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Don Carson with Susquehanna International Group.
Please proceed with your question.
Two questions first on consumer Sean I think on the last call you said that operating margins were actually declining year-over-year because of the cost of the HGTV rollout and yet youre slightly higher.
So Im just wondering what went on consumer to offset that from a margin standpoint? And then secondly just wondering on sort of you Q2 Q3 paint season what are your contractor customers telling you in terms of their bookings outlook both on residential and non-residential? Don I would tell you probably one of the very nice surprises was the ability for our Consumer Group to have operating margin improvement.
And I think there is two pieces there was the piece on the selling side.
But on the manufacturing and the logistics side they had a very good quarter.
And because of that ability they actually were able to have a operating margin $0.01 higher this year than last year.
But they were helped by the incremental gallons that they were producing and so forth -- and they put some of those gallons on our balance sheet which took a little debit and put it on there that you didnt see come up in the second quarter.
But thats what really drove the operating margins in the first quarter to be one-time higher.
I will take the question regarding the contractors and how theyre feeling.
And I would describe it as very bullish.
Ive been around the country and in talking with our people as well as our customers.
There is a very strong level of confidence.
There is a very high level of bid activity.
And theyre very excited about this year.
Our non-paint sales of spray equipment and related sales are very-very strong.
And thats all tied to the confidence that they have in the market.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
In Paint Stores will you comment on how your spray equipment volumes would have compared to the segment average same store sales figure 6.4%? Our spray equipment sales are extremely strong very strong.
Double-digits perhaps? Yes.
Okay.
Good to know.
Thank you.
Then second question for Sean if I may typically your net debt balance expands seasonally it seems in the first quarter relative to the fourth quarter.
But this year the jump was roughly double what youve been running historically.
Would you comment on that and what might be driving it? I can tell you a very quick that we just added here an accelerated factory purchase in ASR in the first quarter.
So in the month of February as John commented we did purchase 2 million of shares in the first quarter.
We did that use in an ASR.
And so thats why you saw a use of cash of approximately $585 million.
So in the last few years weve been a little more cautious in buying stock in the first quarter.
But this year when we were looking at the cash generation of the Company and what were going to do with the cash we feel very good and we want the 2 million shares.
At the end of the year we still believe that our debt our total debt will be in that one-to-one range with our EBITDA.
And last one if I may it sounded like the HGTV load-in was running slightly later than youve previously anticipated.
But other than that were there any March to April timing shifts that you would consider noteworthy? I dont think there is anything noteworthy in that.
And Id like to just be really clear on that HGTV.
We have some projections on how this would rollout.
And this is just simple matter of having some areas that wed planned on moving a week or a couple of days in some cases just falling on the other side of line of the quarter.
So to be clear not sending the wrong signal here its just a matter of very simple timing and where the quarter landed in the midst of this rollout.
So its according to understand now as well.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Arun Viswanathan with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Just wondering if you can give us an update on what youre seeing I guess earlier on the spring paint season to safely get out as we expected.
Thanks.
We expected a strong start to the season and our contractors would tell you that theyre very excited about that.
There is a strong pipeline of this as I mentioned earlier and there is a good feeling about that.
I think many of the contractors experienced a little bit of delay in some of those projects starting with some of the weather that they face.
So were excited about paint season.
And Arun to clear a little context around that the American Coatings Association came out with their forecast of volumes for 2014 and 15 a couple of days ago and their outlook for this year is for annual growth of 5.6% but first quarter growth in more in the 3% range.
So they kind of anticipated a slow start but a really strong season to follow.
And just some clarification on the industry numbers and would that bring us closer to kind of a normal level of gallonage in 750 million range or where do you think we are tracking on the year? No they actually took their 2014 number down a little bit.
Weve been talking about 2014 3.5% growth year.
They actually knock that down to about 2.5% or 2.8%.
So they finished the year in the range of about 720 million gallon.
If you put 5% on top of that were still not back to where we think this cycle is going to peak or even normalize with that.
And then just as a last follow-up.
Can you differentiate any activity in new construction versus repair and remodeling and how the two segments are going? Thanks.
Historically repair remodel has been about 80% of the industry.
So a smaller percentage increase in that segment will move the needle on gallons a lot further.
Repair and remodel we covered earlier than new construction it has remained strong.
Weve commented for a while now that residential repaint is the strongest growth category that weve seen.
But if you look at that the numbers particularly in the housing market year-to-date this year weve seen really strong activity in new home sales.
So in fact permits have actually lagged sales so withdrawn inventories down we would expect a very robust building season in the spring given that the inventories are as low as they are now.
So repaint has led the pack but new home constructions will be a strong contributor this year.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
I wonder if you guys could help describe for me when a consumer comes into a Lowes what is the selling proposition to HGTV brand what is the differentiator there and maybe what fits on that price point scale? When you walk into a Lowes store Bob you're going to see immediately the impressive color presentation at the HGTV HOME by Sherwin-Williams makes.
That really starts the shopping experience those color centers are at the end of their drive aisles theyre close to the very entry points to their stores a good number of Lowe stores that weve been in since the rollout has begun.
We were able to pick out that color center literally with the assessment time to store.
So I think thats going to create excitement and impressions for the department.
Once the consumers made that choice if it's an HGTV color then they are inclined to look for the HGTV product and then Lowes associates will be trained to help them make that.
I think as weve commented in the past that both Valspar and PPG remain in the department.
They will have product offerings as well too.
So this will be a typical experience for all the boxes in managing multi-supplier lines in the department and itll be the merchandizing and quality and then the association will help drive that preference for HGTV HOME.
The confidence factors I think with the colors are lesser and the coordinating of the colors is another compelling feature of the HGTV.
So the consumer with confidence can choose the color as well as coordinating colors go along with that.
And do you guys -- well youve completed by May 1 on the ground training at every Lowes location? Absolutely.
And then last thing real quick if I may.
You mentioned Latin America raw material inflation.
Could you describe what was going on there in the context of expectations for deflation on the horizon? The majority of the raw materials are price in U.S.
dollar so when the currency devalues it's in fact always a raw material increase for the different countries.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Please proceed with your question.
First off I was wondering if you could size the accretion that you might have seen from Comex this quarter.
This integration is going great.
And I think that what weve said is last year were at $0.28 and for the year were going to be at $0.10.
We feel it's going to be here.
But as it is so integrated now where we dont feel confident on a quarter-by-quarter basis to give you that kind of detail so thats why I think weve said that in the future were not going to be commenting on this acquisition.
I am curious there wasnt -- I mean paint stores is usually pretty much a U.S.
dollar type business.
But obviously with Comex coming in there is heavier Canadian footprint and the Canadian dollar did depreciate year-over-year.
So was there any sort of FX headwinds in the Paint Stores group? Yes you're exactly right with the Canadian sales in the Paint Store Group.
There was some headwinds but we break-out the 3.1% for the Company we don't break it out to that by the segments.
And then you just mentioned in the previous question about the raw materials in Lat-Am being priced in dollars so that sounds like its a transactional type FX effect.
Is there any opportunity for you to switch that or buy more locally to offset those FX headwinds going forward? Not on the major titanium dioxide and some of the other major resins and so forth.
So that's the situation we're in.
There are some -- a small percentage of the raw that we do buy it locally but not enough to offset that.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Dmitry Silversteyn with Longbow Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Id just like to tie up a couple of outstanding questions that I have.
In the Global Group could you provide a little bit of a granularity between volume and pricing what the components of revenue was outside of FX? What we've said is that if you think about it we said that our sales were down 5.5% and we said that our gallons were up slightly.
So that we did quick pricing in there in the local currencies but not enough to offset the currency hit.
But the volume is up slightly.
Okay and the price increases was that mainly -- this is both for Latin American and the global group.
The price increases that you mentioned that was mainly to offset the deflation in the currencies I would imagine? Yes.
In terms of your guidance for the year it sounds like with increased foreign exchange headwinds youre nevertheless looking for high single-digit growth for the year sort of reported sales so it sounds like the organic sales growth expectations have improved.
Is that a correct read through and sort of what is behind that? Is it just the optimism in the stores business with the contractors benefiting from commercial construction or are there other drivers to your more upbeat expectations for organic performance in 2015? Youre right I think everything you said that was accurate.
We still believe that for the full year were going to make it and we also pleased that foreign currency is going to be a slightly stronger headwind than we get three months ago.
I will tell you we still remained pretty confident in that range because as I tried to point out the 3.1% is very strong in the first quarter.
Even if the currency remains exactly the headwinds in the second quarter and third quarter that number should reduce.
So -- and I would say you have to remember if we did have some foreign currency devaluation in the guidance already so that's frequent 1% with that 100% incremental we did have some.
So it's just that incremental piece.
And when you look at the range of let's say 7% and 9% that 2% on $11 billion $220 million we still feel that we're in pretty good shape to get inside that range.
Got it got it.
And then the final question you talk about raw material sales in the mid-single digits for 2015.
You also mentioned that you expect that to really take place in the second half of 2015.
So are we to interpret from that that second half 2015 may see more like a double-digit decline in raw material cost for the year on your basis? I don't think so Dmitry this is Bob.
I don't think it will be that strong.
Well have to see I think the linchpin is going to be TiO2.
Well have to see what happens with TiO2 in the back-half.
But I would say that back-half will likely be in the mid maybe upper mid single-digits.
Okay.
So the back half will be mid to high single-digits.
Okay.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thats all the questions I had.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
Thank you.
First one Chris you had mentioned I think -- the term used in February was a low in February and I think you said that it took until the second half of March to pick up just want to confirm that the first half of March looked more like February? And then if you could maybe just frame a little bit what was the difference between what you saw kind of exiting the quarter and what you were seeing during that low Period? Thats exactly why we [multiple speakers].
Yeah sure Dennis.
That is exactly what we said.
February was a soft month for us and March started little softer February started to pick up.
But Sean made a brief comment about weather in the quarter as we started to see some warmer days we really were seeing the acceleration of all this confidence that -- and back there which is professional and training contractor.
I think what's notable is that it's winter in the first quarter.
It's supposed to be cold and Boston supposed to have the kind of snow at head and we had stores closed et cetera.
That really wasn't the impact.
It was the cold south of the Mason Dixon line that really had the impact.
And just as we commented about our Southwestern division kind of lagging a division it typically lead to that time of the year.
When we got some warm weather in those parts of the geography we really started to see it's a rebound.
And now that we're into the second quarter weather really diminishes has been impacted.
And again back to the strong guidance we're giving there.
And I guess just indirectly the guidance youre giving on the sales on an organic base in the second quarter sort of suggests Paint Stores sales are getting back to that high single-digit rate? Correct.
Okay.
And then separately on the global side I think when you back out FX this quarter was modest growth and I think theres something more in the four five range recently.
Can you just talk to where do you think that continues and if so just give some color on what you see in different geographies and different end users? The performance by business unit varied.
And not surprisingly our business in North America across every category was stronger than a relatively weaker performance in Latin America and Europe.
And obviously part of that was due to the currency.
We expect in local currency for these businesses to improve.
And over the balance of the year we feel well get on top of it.
So were confident about the year and the projections weve given you.
Okay.
In Latin America Dennis in the first quarter we had volume gains in every country quarter with the exception of Brazil and its been a while since weve seen that so we currently feeling better about our prospect there as well.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Melich with Evercore ISI Group.
Please proceed with your question.
I want to follow up quickly on SG&amp;A just to make sure I have this right.
So if you havent had the HGTV program with SG&amp;A levered in the first quarter and if you were to think about it going forward we do expect the lever the corporate basis in the second quarter but probably not in consumers.
Did I summarize that right Sean? Yes the only thing that we didnt had say is that we would have shown some efficiencies in the first quarter with SG&amp;A.
Without that I think that we dont want to break that out.
And the reason we dont want to do that is that how much we spend exactly on the Lowes program.
But we would not have had the 5 times of increase in SG&amp;A.
It would have gone the right way.
It would have been down we dont know how much? Yes.
And then the follow up I want to talk a little bit more about the outlook there.
I know weve talked about resi and it looks greater there in the contractors.
What about commercial and industrial? What sort of region you see there? Is there any sort of project work going on or is that not dialed up or is that just sort of as planned? No in fact -- Greg this is Bob there is a quite bit of project work going on.
And due to the long start to paint cycle in the non-residential space you kind of got to look back a year or more at the data.
And if you look at 2014 data in terms of signed contracts non-residential rebounded pretty strongly up about 7% in total with -- as weve pointed before some really strong categories in office and bank hotel and motel manufacturing et cetera.
And so there are certainly -- there is certainly growth across the country.
There are specific categories that we can target to grow faster than the market in total.
And by the way those were contract I just talked about but we also a big jump in starts in the fourth quarter of '14.
There is lot of projects coming out of the ground that will be painted this year.
So its looking a lot better than last year.
And thats mostly driven by occupancy rate which also implies that the retail market will be strong in non-residential this year.
And then lastly I know its early.
But what do you expect the HGTV program at Lowes to do to the program in your own Paint Stores Group? Do you expect it to help to hurt anything in there in terms of your plan will be helpful.
The HGTV HOME program inside the Sherwin-Williams Paint Stores Group format is not significant contributor to our overall revenue.
Having said that we think the additional exposure for the brand the additional advertising some of the upgraded color features and labeling which will impact both the Sherwin store offering as well as Lowes store will have a positive impact.
So it should be marginally better to flat will be our expectation.
And Chris is there a lag to that do you think or do you anything it sort of happened over the advertising et cetera kicks in or is it -- ? I think well see in the second and third quarter when we really expect the ramp up the marketing activity type.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ivan Marcuse with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Just a couple of quick questions I believe your gross margin range typically -- I think you said it past couple of quarters 43 to 47 with the lower gross margin with lower raw materials.
Do you expect to exceed that range this year or would you expect to sort of move that range overtime as that impacted the additional volume that youve gotten over the past couple of quarters? Ivan you are absolutely right.
We believe that this range we recently we talked about the 43 to 46 44 to 47 we think were really in a 44.5 to 47.5.
I would tell you that would be the range that I would give today.
Okay great.
And then you mentioned there is whether every year which there is.
Im curious have you seen any impact of the lower oil costs hitting the economies the tax authority any other energy impacts in terms of construction or housing or anything to that effect? Not really.
I mean weve spent some time with our team down there and theyre feeling pretty good about the marketplace.
So there has not been any impact in our increase down there.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay McCanless with Sterne Agee.
Please proceed with your question.
First question I had I am trying to catch up with Comex and how many of those stores are now part of the actual comp group to make up your comp store sales for the Paint Stores? 283.
On a percentage basis of the store you acquired where does that stand? So we have required 306 of 283 so that makes 306 is about 93.5%.
It's a meaningful part of the comp group at this point you're not going to get any more catch-up from the stores rolling in.
We have approximately close of 4 000 comp store.
So there are 283 of the 4 000 stores it's half of 1% I am sorry I thought you were asking a question of how many remaining.
September of 13 right so they are fully in the comp number thats a point were making.
Jay do you mean what percentage have we converted to Sherwin stores? No I wanted to see if they were part of the comp group already now you already answered that.
My other question is on SG&amp;A in 2Q 14 is there any one-time items in there that arent going to reappear this year just trying to frame our model for how SG&amp;A is going to look.
When you look at that SG&amp;A with 31.8% and $970 million it really was one-time only.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
Please proceed with your question.
You covered a lot of ground.
But the one thing I want to ask you John is it looks like CapEx bumps up quite a bit year-over-year in the first quarter.
Is there anything going on there? Chuck we said that our CapEx would be high this year around 220 million to 240 million.
And what were doing is converting those Comex stores thats whats driving it this year.
So as those conversions occur were continuing to spend approximately $100 000 per store and thats an ongoing cost.
Will you get them all done this year? Go ahead John.
Well get most of them done and the largest part of it.
There will be some perhaps in Canada thatll roll-over and maybe a little bit out on the West Coast.
But largest part well get it mostly done.
And finally any other significant projects in the CapEx budget for 2015? No I think thats the major take there.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas with JP Morgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Can you remind us what percentage of Sherwin-Williams consolidated sales are non-paints or non-coatings? I dont think weve ever given that dynamic.
I think weve talked about the stores and so forth.
But I dont think weve ever given any.
And the reason why is because it diversify and we have brushes and rollers we have costs and so forth.
So I dont think weve ever given that metric.
Weve given you some directional help there Jeff.
I think we say our stores are 70% 75% coating sales the rest of the spray equipment et cetera.
Our Consumer Group would be probably same range 60% 70% range in coatings brushes and rollers or you consider us all paints paints or specialty and that might be a different way to look at it.
But in all our Global Finishes Group it would be coatings.
And then secondly do you think that there will be any sequential change in your overall prices or for the industry in 2Q or 3Q? Has the general price outlook appear on a sequential basis? No we think that if you look at the selling prices there is a lot of activity going on.
But pricing has been fairly stable.
Just to remind you the last time we put a price increase in it was early January 2014.
And then lastly whats the size of the DIY business in the stores? And will the consumer say I can get Sherwin-Williams paint at Lowes I really dont need to get it out the stores.
Do you think that there might be a trade-off for the consumer or no? Weve been consistently at about 15% of that Paint Stores Group revenue [indiscernible] the DIY consumer.
We dont expect that to change substantially one way or the other.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Geoffrey McKinney with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Just a follow-up on the share repurchase side.
The utilization of short-term debt to fund that acceleration should we think about the balance sheet kind of sustain a normal debt balance that coming down or being refined and termed out? I'm just curious how we should think about that going forward.
I think you should think about that it's going to come down our launch is at the end of the quarter it will be the first quarter.
I also think you should think about turning this out.
Were looking at issuing some bonds this year the timing is not exactly public yet because we havent decided exactly when.
One of the things about it you've seen our interest rate was -- our interest expense was 4 million less than the first quarter than last year which is positive.
Because when we did -- when the bonds matured our five-year bonds matured in 2014 we did that re-issue.
But were so heavy into short-term debt I think as I said earlier I think our debt by the end of the year will be in that one-to-one range of EBITDA and you will see fixed notes in a much higher percentage of our total debt.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John Roberts with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Just in under the wire here.
Good morning guys.
You're off to a slow start in the new store openings here.
Its normally a little bit of a hockey stick anyway and back-end loaded but it looks even more so this year.
Should we expect you to get fully caught up there? You should expect us to continue to run in around 100 new stores rate we try to press these deals earlier in the year.
For some reason a lot of them end up at the tail-end of the previous year.
But there is a really very good pipeline that good teams working on it were excited about our pipeline of new stores this year.
And then if the raw materials are down mid single for the year and down mid to high single in the back half of the year one of the things that are down the most in that outlook.
Is TiO2 something that is at the higher end or are some things above the high end of that that might be down even double-digit? I think John from a timing standpoint we're seeing more relief on the petrochemical side of the basket early in the year.
And to get to mid to upper single-digits by the end of year we would need to see a slide in TiO2.
So I think that that would probably on a percentage basis perhaps put TiO2 to down more than the petrochemical than most to the petrochemical side of the basket.
But right now that is not the case.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Rosemarie Morbelli with Gabelli and Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you and good afternoon.
Thank you for taking my question.
I was wondering we talked a lot about from selling price increases offsetting FX devaluation and so on.
But as your raw material costs are coming down do you anticipate some selling price pressure having to cut some of your pricing obviously outside of contracts? Not significantly or havent impacted all I dont think really.
The large jobs are always competitive we close those accordingly.
The raw materials are one element of the products that we are -- one component of what goes into the selling price are services that we provide and the quality of the product the people that we have with our customers all are a component of that.
So I think were going to continue to see the pressure where we always have seen it but nothing anymore than we have in the past.
All right thanks.
And then you also talked about the high level of expectations or satisfaction rather from contractors.
Do you see any change in the do-it-yourself? Do you see that particular part of the equation growing still this year? Or do you think that people have more or less repainted what they were going to repaint for the last couple of years? Well we never think that Rosemarie as soon as were finished.
But we continue to see across the entire country a shift towards the painting contractor away from the DIY just as a demographic that our country support and aging population and less free time et cetera.
Having said that the remaining portion of the market which is around 40% of all the gallons of purchase price DIY we would expect this to be a good year.
Bob has mentioned about residential repaint being one of the strongest segments residential repaint is both DIY and pro and weve seen nice growth there as well too.
We have given color on our DIY sales gains inside the stores organization and the Consumer Group is mostly DIY.
So we would expect to see nice results for this year.
And the HGTV is also DIY correct? That is correct and that will be an impact as well.
Okay.
And if I may how long do you expect this housing recovery to continue based on your experience based on historical data? Do you think it has another two years to go another three years any thoughts? Rosemarie -- this is Bob.
Weve said kind of -- we didnt think for the last couple of years that we really like the pace of this recovery that were not seeing huge year-over-year increases in activity on either the residential or non-residential side of the market.
And at this measured pace depending on where the market peaks exactly it could certainly go another three to five years.
We think that 1.3 million to 1.4 million residential starts is normal.
But weve been running below that normal rate for quite a while now for a number of years now.
And so there should be some catch up required that would require us to go above the normalized rate at the peak of the recovery.
So we can be three to five years from the peak.
That is great.
And if may ask for one last question for Sean as you fix a lot of your short-term debt you are obviously going to do it at a higher rate.
Could we look at next year having interest expense increase by about 3% is that more or less what we should be looking at? 4.5% when you think about next year.
And I would say that 4%-4.5% between 2016 and 2014 depending on the timing we felt we saved 4 million the first quarter.
If we do a deal this quarter youre not going to see that same savings.
If it goes to the third quarter you will see two quarters of it.
So thats why I think probably compared to 2014 is the right one way to look at for year.
And when you say -- so what you are saying so I am making sure I understand is that the rate will be about 4% to 4.5% above whatever you had in 2014 or is it that your interest expense will go up by that amount? The interest expense.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the floor back to Mr.
Wells for any final remarks.
Thank you again Melisa.
As a reminder our Financial Community Presentation is scheduled for Thursday May 28 at The Langham Hotel in Boston.
The program will consist of our customary morning presentation with a question-and-answer session followed by a reception and lunch with the Company management.
If you have not yet signed up and would like to attend registration is still open.
Send me an email at rjwells@sherwin.com and I will reply with a link to our registration site.
As always I will be available over the next few days to handle any follow up questions that arise as you digest this mornings call.
I would like to thank you again for joining us today and thanks for your continued interest in Sherwin-Williams.
Good afternoon.
Thank you for joining The Sherwin-Williams Company Review of Second Quarter 2015 results and expectations for the third quarter and full year review.
[Operator Instructions].
I will now turn the call over to Bob Wells Senior Vice President Corporate Communications.
Thank you Jessie.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
We're going to begin the call today with some prepared remarks by Chris Connor our Chairman and CEO and John Morikis President and Chief Operating Officer.
Following their remarks we will open the call to your questions and Sean Hennessy our Chief Financial Officer and Al Mistysyn Corporate Controller are with us to participate in the Q&amp;A session.
But before I pass the microphone to Chris let me remind you that this conference call will include certain forward-looking statements.
As defined under U.S.
federal securities laws with respect to sales earnings and other matters.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
You'll find a full declaration regarding forward-looking statements in our earnings release transmitted earlier this morning.
In the interest of time we've also provided some balance sheet items and other selected financial information on our website at www.sherwin.com under Investor Relations July 16 press release.
With that let me turn the call over to Chris.
Thanks Bob and good morning everybody.
Back in January on our year end 2014 conference call we issued guidance for 2015 that some would say was out of character for Sherwin-Williams.
It was aggressive on both revenue and earnings per share growth.
The confidence we had in our outlook for high single-digit sales growth came primarily from the continued strength of the North American market which as you know accounts for more than 75% of our revenues.
This optimism was slightly tampered somewhat by declining oil and gas infrastructure investment worldwide and the weakening currencies in Latin America and Europe because sales volume drives productivity and margin improvement our bullish sales outlook prompted equally bullish expectation for 25% earnings per share growth at the midpoint of our range.
Although this guidance might have seemed out of character for us we believe it was appropriate given the market environment we saw at the time.
Today we are revising our expectations for the full year.
We now expect consolidated net sales for the year to increase 3% to 5% compared to full year 2014 and diluted net income per common share to be in the range of $10.60 to $11 per share a 23% increase at the midpoint of the range over last year's $8.78.
By any measure 0.3% earnings improvement and mid single-digit sales growth is a very good year just not quite as good as we originally expected.
So what's changed? The most obvious answer is also completely out of character for us.
As most of you know it is our long-standing practice to not give weather reports on earnings calls but the unprecedented rainfall across most of the United States during the past three months is hard to ignore.
16 states recorded above-average rainfall in the month of April.
That number increased to 22 states in May with 12 of those recording much above average and Texas Oklahoma and Colorado setting all-time rainfall records.
And then in June the rain moved to the Midwest and Northeast with 24 states recording above-average rainfall and three of those Illinois Indiana and Ohio setting all-time rainfall records.
The impact of these extraordinary weather patterns can be seen in national home building data as well.
Residential building permits were up 25% year-over-year in May while actual starts were up only 5%.
Year-to-date residential permits have increased at twice the rate of starts.
Non-residential construction projects have suffered similar delays.
We're breaking with tradition in talking about this weather impact today not so much to explain our soft sales results for the second quarter but to illustrate why we remain upbeat on the future.
Bad weather doesn't destroy demand for paint.
It only postpones it.
The change in our full-year guidance is not a reflection of lost confidence but the reality of lost days.
We believe market demand remains strong but we've reached the point where it is unlikely the delays caused by weather will be fully recouped in this calendar year.
I want to turn the call over to John to review our results for the second quarter and I'll be back to provide a little more color and walk you through our expectations for the third quarter.
John? Thanks Chris and good morning everyone.
I'll begin by highlighting overall company performance for second quarter 2015 compared to second quarter 2014 then comment on each reportable segment.
Consolidated net sales increased 2.9% to $3.13 billion driven primarily by solid performance in our paint stores and consumer groups.
Consolidated group profit dollars increased $120 million year-over-year to $1.5 billion and gross margin increased to 48.8% of sales from 46.3% in the second quarter last year.
Selling general and administrative expense for the quarter increased 3.1% to $999.2 million.
As a percent of sales SG&amp;A increased 10 basis points to 31.9% in the second quarter this year from 31.8% last year due primarily to the incremental investment to support the HGTV Home rollout at Lowe's.
Interest expense for the quarter was $12.9 million a decrease of $3.5 million compared to the second quarter last year.
Consolidated profit before taxes in the quarter increased $78.5 million to 18.3% or 18.3% to $507.7 million.
Our effective tax rate in the second quarter this year was 31.1% compared to 32.1% in the second quarter of 2014.
Consolidated net income increased $58.5 million or 20.1% to $349.9 million.
Net income as a percent of sales increased to 11.2% compared to 9.6% in the second quarter last year.
Diluted net income per common share for the quarter increased 25.9% to a record $3.70 per share compared to $2.94 per share in 2014.
Looking at our results by operating segment Paint Stores Group sales increased 5.4% to $1.98 billion.
Comparable store sales sales by stores opened more than 12 calendar months grew 3.9% in the quarter over last year's comparable period.
Regionally in the second quarter our Midwestern division led all divisions followed by southeastern eastern and southwestern.
Sales and volumes were positive in every division.
Paint Stores Group segment profit for the quarter increased $57.5 million or 15.3% to $433.4 million.
Segment profit as a percent of sales increased in the quarter to 21.8% from 20% in the second quarter last year.
Consumer Group also turned in a solid performance for the quarter.
Sales increased to 13.1% to $490 million due primarily to shipments of the HGTV by Sherwin-Williams paint to Lowe's stores.
Segment profit for the Consumer Group increased $21.7 million to 23.5% or 23.5% to $114.2 million from $92.5 million in the second quarter last year.
The profit improvement for the quarter was due primarily to higher sales volumes and improved operating efficiencies that were partially offset by higher SG&amp;A spending related to the HGTV Home launch.
Segment profit as a percent of external sales increased to 23.3% from 21.3% last year an increase in six months to 20.2% from 18.9% last year.
For our Global Finishes Group sales in US dollars decreased 7.1% to $505.8 million in the quarter as unfavorable currency translation was partially offset by modest volume increases.
Unfavorable currency translation decreased net sales for the segment by 7.7% in the quarter.
Segment profit in US dollars increased to $57.3 million from $54.9 million last year.
Our results last year include charges in the quarter totaling $4.5 million related to the exit of our business interests in Venezuela.
In second quarter 2015 unfavorable currency translation rate changes reduced segment profit $8.3 million in the quarter.
As a percent of net external sales Global Finishes Group segment profit increased to 11.3% in the quarter compared to 10.1% last year.
Our Latin American Coatings Group continued to operate in a very challenging economic environment.
Second quarter net sales for the group stated in US dollars decreased 17.2% to $150.1 million.
Volumes in the quarter were negative and unfavorable currency translation decreased net sales by 17.4% both of which were mitigated to some degree by selling price increases.
Segment profit in the second quarter stated in U.S.
dollars decreased to $4 million from $5.7 million in the same period last year.
Currency translation decreased segment profit $2.3 million in the quarter.
As a percent of net external sales segment operating profit was 2.7% in the quarter compared to 3.1% in the second quarter of 2014.
That concludes our review of results for the second quarter so I'll turn the call over to Chris who will make some general comments and highlight our expectations for third quarter and full year.
Thanks John.
My comments on the call focus on sales in the quarter because that's clearly where our results deviated from our original expectations.
There were some noteworthy bright spots.
Residential repaint sales through our Paint Source Group Pro and DIY combined grew double digits in the quarter.
This robust demand was offset by sluggish sales to the new construction segment and protective and marine.
Our consumer group completed the rollout of the HGTV Home by Sherwin-Williams paint program in all Lowe's stores by May 1 and the program continues to build momentum as awareness grows.
Sales volumes in most of our nondomestic businesses were positive but gallon growth was insufficient to offset the currency devaluation which was slightly worse than anticipated in the quarter.
From a profitability standpoint the picture is certainly brighter.
Earnings per share in the quarter increased 26% and consolidated sales growth of less than 3%.
Our incremental margin on consolidated profit before tax was more than 80%.
As a percent of sales both gross profit and operating profit expanded 250 basis points compared to last year and profit before-tax improved 210 basis points.
SG&amp;A actually was the only line on the P&amp;L that went the wrong way in the quarter and that was by design to support the rollout of HGTV Home at Lowe's.
During the quarter our paint source group continued to expand its store footprint opening 20 new stores and closing five redundant Comex locations.
This brings a year to date net openings to 22.
We remain very confident in the long-term market opportunity for this group and likewise remain on pace to open between 100 to 110 new stores this calendar year as well as close between 20 and 25 redundant store locations.
Today our total store count in the U.S.
Canada and the Caribbean stands at 4025 compared to 3941 locations one year ago an increase of 84 stores in the past year.
In the first six months of 2015 we generated $349 million in net operating cash an increase of $17.4 million compared to the first half of 2014 driven by higher six-month net income.
Working capital was a use of cash in the quarter and first half increasing by slightly more than $80 million.
Most of this increase was to support again the HGTV Home program at Lowe's.
Working capital as a percent of sales increased 11.8% of sales from 11.7% in the second quarter last year.
During the quarter we acquired a quarter million shares of the company's stock for treasury.
This brings our year to date share repurchase total to 2.25 million at an average cost of $284.46 per share for a total investment of $640 million.
On June 30 we had remaining authorization to acquire just under 3 million shares.
Yesterday our Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.67 per share up 22% from the $0.55 per share we paid last year.
Our outlook for raw material supply pricing is virtually unchanged from the view we provided on our first quarter call.
As a steady decline in petrochemical feed stock prices over the past year combined with improving monomer supply has continued to put downward supply on latex and resin prices over the first half of the year.
At the same time high grade chloride titanium dioxide pricing has softened a bit in recent quarters due to continued weakness in global demand and excess supply.
Based on these developments we still expect average year-over-year raw material costs for the industry be down in the mid single-digit range in 2015.
As I said in my opening comments we remain optimistic that U.S.
demand for architectural paint will strengthen as residential and non-residential builders scramble to make up for first half weather delays.
This growth when it comes will continue to be offset to some degree by challenging conditions in many nondomestic markets and currency headwinds.
Our outlook for the third quarter of 2015 is for consolidated net sales to increase 3% to 5% compared to last year's third quarter for the last year's third quarter.
With sales at that level we expect diluted net income per common share for the third quarter to be in the range of $3.75 to $3.90 per share compared to $3.35 earned per share in the third quarter of 2014.
Again for the full year 2015 we expect consolidated net sales to increase 3% to 5% over full-year 2014 and diluted net income per common share to be in the range of $10.60 to $11 per share compared to $8.78 per share earned in 2014.
Again we would like to thank you all for joining us this morning and now we would be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question is coming from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Please proceed with your question.
Just given the drop in raw material prices you've seen this year can you first off just kind of characterize the current environment as it relates to discounting for paint this year versus maybe in previous years? Any material change there? I think that pricing has held fairly consistent Ghansham.
We have commented over the past cycles that in this environment we'll see some lower bid pricing on major projects.
For the most part though pricing has been very benign and pretty flat for the year for us.
Okay and then just -- you called out weather but was there any meaningful impact in demand from the drop in oil prices and maybe the related impact in the regions that are exposed to oil such as Texas? Yes we commented I think directionally in the comments relative to our protective and marine businesses.
We've seen a lot of coatings that we would typically supply into the oilfield the rig builders the supply chain organizations that work in those spaces and we're absolutely feeling that.
Texas is one area that you mentioned the upper Midwest to the Dakotas and into Western Canada where we have a sizable business now as a result of the Comex acquisition.
We have felt the softness in all three of those geographies.
Okay and maybe a question for Sean in terms of the share buybacks.
Just looking back it seems like the lowest amount of share buybacks in aggregate quarters since 4Q 2008.
Anything in particular we should read into that or is it just sort of timing? Thanks so much.
It was really nothing but timing.
There was nothing read into it.
I think we were asked at the end of the first quarter it probably had a little more to do with the acquisition pipeline than anything about the stock and -- but again we still feel that throughout the years we're going to continue to generate cash.
We feel at the end of the year our debt to EBITDA will be just slightly above one and we're going to utilize that cash in either acquisitions or buybacks.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Chris you mentioned -- I think I heard you right that residential repaint was up double digits while the new construction markets were kind of pressured.
So does that imply while it was raining outside lots of people were painting inside? We can only hope Bob.
Yes we absolutely did say that.
I think for going on three years now on these calls we've commented about the residential repaint being the real strength of the rebounding architectural market in the United States and that remains accurate as well.
We do see these numbers a little more granular when we break out interior coatings versus exterior coatings we certainly see the weather impact there.
But the strength of that market despite the weather that we commented in a number of these areas generated a double-digit performance there.
I think what you should take away from that is the highlight of the softness that we're seeing on the new construction side of it as we commented on the delays in starts and projects both commercial and residential by the way.
And as you guys expand into your relationship at Lowe's should we expect that that would have given the DIY focus more of an interior market there or is that going to be as balanced as you would see typically through your stores? I think it would have more of a DIY slant within the Lowe's customer base.
Some of that will be you know they will take -- customers there will give those colors to the painters.
But most of those people that are going in there typically are do-it-yourselfers.
I'm sorry.
I asked it poorly.
Is it more interior? Yes so the market is [indiscernible] interior/exterior market break out and why we see a little bit more interior for DIY.
The overall market breaks down about 60% of gallon volume is interior 40% is exterior in that range.
The exterior market tends to be more of a pro market.
Obviously a fewer homeowners are willing to tackle an exterior project than paint their living room.
So in that the Lowe's channel tends to skew more DIY it would probably necessarily skew more interior than the market certainly more than our stores.
And do you guys have any earlier read at your HGTV how that price point has trended? I know you weren't there a year ago but versus what had been incumbent a year ago? Are you seeing some pickup at that price point at Lowe's? I'm not sure I understand the question.
In other words you displaced somebody else's product from last year.
Are you generating year on year gains in that price point for Lowe's? So we aren't commenting as we've said specifically about price points or the Lowe's entirety of the program.
All we had said is that this business is going to add somewhere between 2% to 3% revenue.
We are two months into the rollout of this and it's ramping up and we're on track with our guidance that we gave you for that business.
Chris I applaud your consistency.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
Last winter obviously the winter before this bad winter was obviously a bad winter.
So I guess my question is can you kind of get us up to date on through the course of '14 did you feel like you made up the demand that was deferred out of say the first quarter of '14 through the balance of the year? Did we come into '15 with some of that pent-up demand then we have the winter now we have the rainfall.
I'm just trying to get a sense of you know what you think the lag effect is on your underlying sales versus sort of continued improvement we're seeing in terms of the broader macro housing data whether existing home sales or housing prices or so forth? So in 2014's bad winter as in so many bad winters before Vincent we would typically say that you know a good week in June can make up for an entire horrible month of February.
The problem was we didn't have the good week in June in 2015.
We absolutely caught up throughout 2014 and we didn't feel that we came into the beginning of this year with any pent-up demand.
Projects were completed.
In 2015 we're amending those thoughts a little bit and that was the intent that we're just running out of days with having lost so many paintable days in the second quarter.
Not even so much painting days but just construction days.
We haven't been able to pour concrete to get pads set for houses to come out of it.
Big commercial projects trains and sky lines across the country are delayed and behind because of the impact of weather in these markets.
Anecdotally we can comment on Dallas Texas where there is north of 30 trains on the skyline.
A good 2/3rds of those should be in the painting stage right now.
We're just on two or three of them as a result of delays given the significant rain they have had down there.
So we are going to have pent-up demand as a result of this particular year.
We don't expect we'll get caught up and so that should bode well for a little bit of a better start in calendar year 2016.
Okay and just a quick follow-up.
Your other income or expense spiked pretty substantially in the quarter.
What was in that line item and how should it trend the rest of the year? The environmental.
We had a little bit of environmental.
We show that broken out on the other but we had approximately year-to-date about $10 million.
Most of that happening in the second quarter as we took on the [indiscernible].
But that won't recur next year or in the future at all? No.
We think that we've gotten through most of our environmental expense for the year.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Aram Rubinson with Wolfe Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Had a quick question on droughts can't imagine it would affect your business directly but maybe you could walk us through if there is an effect if you see customers prioritize more lawn outdoor or do they kind of switch to indoor painting projects? Well Chris we're rooting for a drought in Texas Illinois Ohio and on and on and on.
California and the Southwest where we have been experiencing drought part of the country has been in for such a long sustained period that year on year comparisons really aren't particularly affected there.
So you know hot baking sun creates opportunities for residential exterior paint projects to protect and sustain properties given the rigors of that environment.
We haven't seen any significant change that we can point to to your point that discretionary spending's being moved to landscaping purchases etcetera.
We have heard recently about a trend where people are starting to paint their lawns green because they can't afford to water them so that might be a new market opportunity for us.
Just one quick question on experience at Lowe's so far.
With you guys entering the market coming back into home improvement channel have you seen everyone else playing nicely in the sand box? Do you think competitors maybe proactively taking price cuts given commodity basket coming down or has it been pretty stable? We've not so much seen any of the pricing cutbacks that you talked about.
We often talk about that we're blessed with good competitors.
They keep us moving forward and they are not letting us down and we're working hard every day.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Arun Viswanathan with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
I guess I just wanted to delve into the sales growth guidance a little bit.
Back in first quarter you said that you were expecting 6% to 8% for the year.
And now you're saying third quarter may be up 3% to 5%.
So is it the case that the wet weather I guess has kind of continued into July? I mean why wouldn't you expect a stronger number for third quarter sales growth? Couple things.
You're absolutely right.
You look at the weather we've had in July kind of like June 30 the weather changed.
I think that July continues to be pretty variable.
I think that couple of things when we take a look at what we think the foreign exchange hit is going to be in the third and fourth quarter versus what we thought was going to be during the third and fourth quarter you know it's going to be a larger headwind for us.
And then finally I think there is still some projects that are being delayed from the first half that they still have not been able to get to.
So there is a lot of different work that just isn't ready to be painted that's still in the process of getting to the paint stage.
So there has been a lot of delays and those things there is only so many days.
I think Chris mentioned in his script there's only going to be so many days.
So we think that's going to negatively affect our sales gain throughout the remained der of the year.
And then on the industry so do you expect your sales growth still to be kind of 1.5 to twice the industry or is the industry slowing at all just because of the weather and that's how you kind of get to your 3% to 5% expectation? Well we'll have to wait and see how the year unfolds and our competitors reports will follow.
You know don't forget that this is a company that that skews heavily to the professional paint contractor and a lot of this the delay tends to be more contractor-driven because of the construction comments we're making.
So time will tell.
I think over the long run Arun the point is that the model's intact.
We don't think anything structurally has changed here and you know we can only delay this not destroy this demand.
So we think we're going to be fine.
It's going to be a little choppy getting there.
Okay and if I may a quick follow-up on the year's outlook as you know TiO2 was down in the quarter and looks like it's going to continue to decline in third and fourth quarter.
Does that give you any more confidence that you know you could potentially be better than the mid single-digit decline in raw costs year on year? Or is it too early to tell? Thanks.
Arun this is Bob.
If TiO2 if trajectory of TiO2 comes in where we think it will that implies the mid single-digit decline in the basket that we've been guiding to for the last couple quarters.
So we don't necessarily see more goodness in the current trajectory of TiO2.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Don Carson with Susquehanna International Group.
Please proceed with your question.
Just a follow-up Chris on your industry view you showed some slides back in your May investor meeting the issue of 2.8% last year to 720 million.
So where do you see the industry this year versus last year? And a related question to that you talk of a normalized band of 740 million to 760 million gallons frankly looks like we'll be almost at the lower end of that band this year.
Yet obviously housing remains well below normalized levels.
So what do you think of the kind of true normalized level of demand going forward in terms of industry gallons? So we'll have to wait and see Don as we said earlier but our expectations that that industry growth will be lower than we guided to at the beginning of the year for the reasons that we talked about.
We've commented on that band over the years and said that we tend to be on the conservative side of that.
We believe that as the market rebounds it will have to actually run above that normalized band for a period of time because we've been below it for so long.
So even a million gallons is not an unrealistic number we see that from a lot of other folks that have opine on what the demand might be in this space.
Again plenty of opportunity for growth here.
That's why we continue to remain bullish and open these stores at the pace we're on one every three days and fully expect that we're going to see that materialize over the coming years.
And just a follow-up on gross margins.
You had a pretty phenomenal gross margin of 48.8%.
It would appear that most of this year's raw material decline is more second half weighted so maybe John you could talk about what kind of momentum you see in gross margins going forward and kind of the carry-through to next year as well.
You know you're absolutely right.
You're looking at 48 that we have in the second quarter.
We've been talking about this band of 43 to 47.5 we said we would be at the high end.
We're going to actually probably see it just slightly above the high end of the band.
You got to remember we are in LIFO.
And so we take projections of what we think are going to come in in the second half and we actually get to adjust our cost of goods sold from FIFO to LIFO.
So some of that raw material that we're projecting and you're projecting are already reflected in that gross margin.
So we see that many times the we're pretty close to full year gross margin at the year-to-date in the second quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Sean just on that last point there are you saying there was a LIFO/FIFO adjustment catchup in the second quarter? No what I was saying is not a catchup but we always project out the LIFO.
Between the first quarter and second quarter just because the amount of raws we buy and the amount of paint we sell in the second quarter the adjustment's usually larger.
But it was pretty flattish when it comes to percentages.
And then on the comment on Chris on the double-digits on residential repaint should we compare that against the same-store gross number of four? I'm not sure I understand exactly what you're getting at-- Is it relative to the overall growth in paint stores or the same-store growth I guess is the question.
That was total.
Double-digit was for total growth for paint stores.
So that would include the 84 new stores as well.
It would okay.
So is that essentially saying that new residential was down in the quarter or barely growing? Certainly lower than the double-digit residential repaint numbers slightly positive.
Okay.
And then as you guys approach the second half of the year given that uncertainty I guess maybe help us a little bit as you forecast out those pieces or think about the moving parts how did you arrive at the second half outlook given the uncertainty that you're seeing in weather today? I think we took it much more into consideration.
We saw that at the end of the first quarter we didn't think the weather variability would remain as strong as it did and I think you know the comments about some of the states in April and May and June we probably have a little more volatility because of that weather in our forecast.
So we would say that by segment we would expect the residential repaint to continue to be the leading part of that.
We think new residential and new commercial is going to lag.
And a lot of the commercial maintenance projects should continue to be on track.
As we've shared with you Dennis you know it's the residential side of the market that's the largest and you know it's new construction areas that we're really feeling the real headwinds.
Okay.
And then if you ignore any shift in the currency rate did your change in outlook or did your international outlook change with the guidance provision? Yes it did but the foreign currency also is a factor there.
If you ignore the foreign currency Sean was the organic change if you think about it that way also lowered? Yes.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Please proceed with your question.
First question HGTV paint [ph] at Lowe's is this taking business away from higher price point paint or are the low end customers also moving up to buy HGTV? Can you explain that dynamic? That dynamic happening inside Lowe's' box is a conversation that you need to have with Lowe's.
We don't comment specifically on their customers moving inside their department to various channels.
So again all we can comment is to tell you that we're fully embedded.
The program is ramping up nicely.
We're on our original guidance for the program and expect it to continue to be a contributor to Lowe's for many years to come.
And then my second question is on this wet weather.
Again a lot of discussion there some of the business gets pushed out into second half.
Some goes into 2016.
Is there a number in your mind is it like 50/50 or maybe 30% you can recoup in 2015 and the rest goes in 2016 can you just give us some quantification? I don't think we parse the information that finite P.J.
And again as Sean commented we have yet to see the weather improve.
July continued to have above-normal rainfall across a significant portion of the United States and so it's a little early to make that call.
We'll see how the year wraps up and obviously give you guidance as we head into next year.
But for right now we're struggling to get some gallons in this year.
And then lastly on your Latin American Coatings Group were down you mentioned that volume was up 1%.
Can you talk a little bit about outlook in different countries Mexico Brazil etcetera? Thank you.
Overall I would say if you back out Brazil Brazil is our largest market for us for the significant challenges.
You look at Brazil in its total and we felt pressure there as well.
Collectively if you look at the balance of the countries overall we were pretty much flat and we feel as though going forward we're going to be working hard to continue to improve that and grow our position from that point.
And P.J.
point of clarification I believe we said volumes in Latin America were negative not up 1%.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
I was looking at your consumer group revenues.
I would have thought that the benefit from Lowe's and along the lines of what you publicly said you know might have been 80 million or 90 million in the quarter which would mean that if you pick that out the consumer group revenues might have fallen 5% or 6% something like that.
Did something happen in the consumer group revenue base? And in rough terms is that an accurate analysis of what's going on there? You're close.
You're off by you know a few basis points.
But it's clear that we have a soft quarter in the consumer group when you back out Lowe's.
For all the same reasons we've been talking about.
Weather has had an impact across that customer segment.
I think we've heard softer reports on various important weekend sales activities.
But in terms of the consumers' profile of their customer base their share shelf energy behind their program nothing has changed in that regard Jeff.
I was just going to say Jeff you know you also have to look at the history.
If you look at our consumer group last year in the second quarter it was up 10%.
It was up 8% for the first six months.
We finished the year at around 5.9.
So when you take a look at the comps this is going to be a very hard comp quarter for the consumer group with or without Lowe's.
And then lastly you probably would want to buy chloride-based TiO2 from China if more chloride-based capacity could come on.
Do you find that you're able to do that? There is some new chloride plants in China that I think has begun to ship commercially.
Are those plants you can avail yourself of? You know Jeff this is Bob.
Whether we do source chloride from China or someone else that has chloride capacity coming out of China it still has the same effect of tipping the balance to supply and demand in our favor.
So I'm not sure that we would benefit from sourcing chloride TiO2 directly from China but clearly we're benefiting from growing capacity over there.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of John Roberts with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
The 3% to 5% growth for the third quarter I think you said you expect July to be weak already because of weather.
But would you expect high single-digit growth in August-September? The weather's normally pretty good for painting then and there's a lot of pent-up demand it seems.
Yes I think what we were trying to impress there or point out that the weather didn't change at the end of the second quarter.
I don't think we're making a comment on month-by-month sales.
Okay but are you projecting bad weather in August and September? No but we weren't projecting it in May-June either John.
I think as we look across we tried to give solid guidance as we possibly can here.
We're recognizing that a lot of the projects that we expected to be on that would have driven some of those sales gains won't be ready to be painted because of the delayed cause in the construction side of it.
So just trying to give you the best crystal ball we can.
We think that's a pretty good number going forward for the third quarter.
Okay and you had a competitor this morning that cited a decline in their independent dealer channel.
I know the independent dealers have been lagging their professional paint stores.
But is that gap widening or did something happen for that part of the market you know lag substantially more than it normally does? Again that would be a good question for you to ask them.
I don't know the answer to that.
So you didn't see it -- you have some sales in the independent dealer channel-- A small part of what we do as you know.
Our focus again is customers primarily through our own stores.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Please proceed with your question.
I believe last quarter there was some details in selling through the to the home garden TV and Lowe's.
I'm curious is the number we saw this quarter in terms of growth was that slightly inflated or just how we should think about the growth rate from HGTV going forward for the rest of the year? I think that we mentioned that because when you look at the load end May 1st was our target date but to get everything ready for May 1 we were selling some in March.
We were just saying there was a differential between March and April.
The loading continued through May 1st and we're not going to give quarterly sales for this customer.
What we've said is on the annualized basis we're still going to be in the range that we gave you for the year 2% to 3% of last year's number.
Okay.
And just you know obviously the whole industry saw some you know saw declines in volumes this quarter due to weather.
But just looking at your results you know you didn't -- it seems like you didn't outperform the industry as much as maybe you haven't done in the past and a lot of that outperformance seems to be from share gains.
Are you seeing any sort of ceiling on your ability to take share or just how are you thinking about share gains going forward? No we don't see a ceiling there.
In fact we're very determined to continue to grow not only perhaps at the pace that we have compared to the market but even at a faster rate.
No we don't see a ceiling there.
As we've talked about this opportunity to put 5000 stores into the United States Canada and the Caribbean as we've commented we're slightly above 4000 accelerating into the store openings for the remainder of the decade.
So this is a solid plan being well executed and confident that it will continue to drive share gains for us.
And just one more if I may.
Obviously you know there is deferred projects because of the weather and delays and you probably don't know how it will filter into your results.
But is there any risk to some of these projects that have been delayed being canceled? I don't think there's very high likelihood of that.
I mean data points here on housing permits being pulled you know the demand for the projects that we eventually intend to be painting remain strong.
They are not destroyed by weather.
They are simply delayed.
So household formation remains strong inventory of housing stock is as well positioned as it's been in the last four or five years in our country and the need for these multifamily or single-family living units remains fairly robust.
Our expectations are that these projects that are under way and on the books will eventually get to completion and they will be painted.
And the same holds true for non-residential Nils.
There is a lot of structural steel going up right now that's just the projects are delayed getting to the painting stage but they are not going to cancel a project that's under way.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Dmitry Silversteyn with Longbow Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Most of my questions have been answered.
But just following up on what Shawn has said about the face of share repurchases and the fact that you were perhaps not as aggressive in the second quarter looking out to your M&amp;A pipeline obviously nothing was announced in the second quarter.
So is there something that we should look over to in the second half of the year? Or did I misinterpret your comments about M&amp;A playing a role in your share repurchase decisions? Right.
I think what we said is we're always trying to get back to that one-to-one in the year and utilize all the cash.
What I said is we were heavier in the first quarter due to -- we weren't as optimistic about the about the M&amp;A that we're going to incur.
I think that second quarter that has no discussion about M&amp;A and second quarter purchases.
Okay.
So it was just a question the first quarter was a little faster and the second quarter was more normal so that's the pace we should expect going forward? Yes.
Got it.
And then when you look at sort of the mix component of your revenues both in the store group and in the consumer group it sounded like with more interior sales that exterior and obviously with the loading at HGTV at Lowe's is it reasonable to speculate that your mix was down in both channels year-over-year both in terms of revenue impact but also in terms of margin? Well mix would have been skewed to interior versus exterior in both channels.
Is that what you're asking? Well in both channels but then on top of that in the Lowe's channel in the consumer group you also have the HGTV which I'm assuming was slightly dilutive to mix as well or not.
It's dilutive mix but it would have skewed to interior versus exterior to the reasons we've articulated.
Okay and did that have an impact on margins as well as revenue? No.
No I think that especially we've commented before operating margins are all very good with incremental gallons and it's played out the same way this time.
Okay.
So exterior and interior paint sales really don't have much of an impact in terms of mix for the company either on revenue or on margin is that what you're saying? Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Couple things.
In terms of Sean the reduction in the second half sales guidance I know you tend not to want to talk about segments for weather but whenever we can cover both in terms of on a segment basis was the 3 to 4% reduction in sales guidance consistent across the segments or more skewed to any of the specific segments? No I think that you know stores group was the least affected.
The other thing you have to realize is the Canadian dollar is really weakened and you know Paint Source Group with the acquisition of the assets we received in Canada plus our growth there they have a little bit of we have a little bit of FX headwind in the second half there.
But our stores group was the least affected.
Following up on that or similar to that the stores count for the first quarter I think was around 6.5.
Is that -- not to ask what you think the stores comp will be in the second half but is the stores comp in the second half more likely to look likely to look like the first quarter than the second quarter? Can you just give us a little bit of directional sense on that? I would say the answer -- I wouldn't go all the way to 6.5.
But I do think we expect that the comp stores to be above the second quarter.
Okay.
And then the last is there any reason why weather matters more to the business now than the past? There has been periods of bad weather in the past that you have been able to navigate through a little bit more effectively than this.
No I don't think any more now than it has been in the past.
I think when it occurs in the year matters Eric.
We've made it through rough winters where we've had stores close and really been at a loss for customers.
But when it happens in the second quarter which is really the ramping into the paint season and our -- it's really really strong quarter that's just the difference that we're feeling this time.
And I don't remember in my 30 years having the kind of rainfall impact that we've had literally across the United States that we've dealt with this year.
Eric I would also to that that when you're kind of in the midst of growing momentum in demand for new construction which is where we are in the cycle right now you know weather does have an impact on on completing new construction projects.
And then lastly Chris you characterized your original guidance or you suggested that we might have used the original guidance as aggressive.
How would you characterize the guidance you're giving today? Perfect.
Yes I think 25% earnings growth I don't recall a year where we've gone out that far.
But as we've said the markets look terrific to us.
We were capturing the raw material advantages and bringing that down as we've been showing you we've been able to do that by handling the price ring.
It was a huge number for us and we're still hanging in there at 23% earnings growth forecast in the midpoint of the range.
We're going to get to year end.
It just isn't quite as robust as we thought it was going to be six months ago.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Christopher Perrella with Bloomberg Intelligence.
Please proceed with your question.
I have a question in regards to your Global Finishes Group.
With half the sales there coming from overseas what's your exposure over in Asia? And what product lines industrial coatings and wood coatings would be most affected by a slowdown over in China? In China we have our product finishes business which goes into our OEMs as well as our automotive team and our protective and marine team.
So each of those have various segments that they are focusing on for growth and areas that they have strengths in.
We'll feel some softness in some of those as a result of the market and we're continuing to grow and focus on new customers and segments.
Our market share there is relatively small percentage.
So we've got plenty of upside ahead of us there.
All right and then in terms of seasonality in Latin American business with the broad I guess geography of the region is that business as seasonal as North America with a large bulk of the volume going out in say 4Q and 1Q just the opposite in North America or is it more evenly distributed across the four quarters of the year? No your first assessment was more correct.
It would be the latter part of our year would be their painting season.
All right.
So you could potentially see a pickup in volumes with seasonality there which will help on the raw material and potentially currency headwinds? Well it always picks up in the fourth quarter and first quarter.
So I mean we'll be comparing to those kinds of performance.
I don't think it will have any impact on the raw material or the currency.
They will be driven by much broad economic issues than whether the paint industry's having a ramping up in demand.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Eugene Fedotoff with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Just to follow up on higher administrative expenses or SG&amp;A expenses in the quarter due to the rollout of HGTV paint at Lowe's are any of those costs sort of one-time in nature and you don't expect repeat year-over-year for next quarter? Yes I think what we've commented on is the second quarter was going to be the highest SG&amp;A increase due to advertising for the Lowe's.
What we said is it was really two buckets of SG&amp;A incremental SG&amp;A at Lowe's.
It was the organization that we put in place and that was going to be flat lined throughout the four quarters.
Advertising is going to be a little stronger in the second quarter.
And you're going to start seeing it at a more normal run rate in the third and fourth quarter.
And did I hear you correctly that HGTV impact was positive on consumer margin? Yes.
Yes that margin in that group is impacted by gallon movement.
That's where we manufacture all the paints of the company so those gallons have been positive and you can see that in that segment's reporting numbers.
Okay.
And the last question on FX given that you're increasing expectations for the headwinds here do you expect third quarter FX headwinds to be sort of the same or larger than what you saw in the second quarter? Thanks.
We have them slightly higher in an in the second quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Rosemarie Morbelli with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Just going back to the weather you have a lot I understood probably a lot of projects that are kind of under way and I am guessing that everyone is going to start to aim at finishing at least the outside before the winter and then they will start working on the inside.
Could your first quarter be helped by that particular factor? Can they do enough to start painting in Q4 and therefore you could have positive surprise? That could happen.
And so that potential positive surprise is not in your current expectations is it? I wouldn't call it so much a surprise.
I think your analysis is correct that we would expect that you're going to get these finished.
We're going to move on to these projects.
And I think our expectation that that will happen is embedded in the sales guidance we're giving.
And then from -- if I understood probably what you said the $350 million worth of stock buyback in the first half is that a similar amount that you are anticipating for the second half? No.
I think that the second half of the year will be much smaller and when you look at the cash generation we're having again we're going to be slightly higher than one-to-one.
That would tell you we're going to spend less on stock in the second half of the year.
Okay and if I may ask one last question which I probably ask every quarter but given what you are seeing in the industry and in the housing market are you still comfortable with housing recovery of another three to five years? And because remodeling is actually more important to you can that last longer than that three to five years? We do believe that in fact the weather patterns we've seen in the first half of the year is probably going to draw the housing recovery you know the path back to normal out even a little more than we anticipated.
So certainly three more years to this recovery to reach a peak is certainly foreseeable.
On the repaint side not just the homes that are being put in place the existing homes that are trading hands but also the overall appreciation in home values that we've seen in the markets should drive remodeling and repaint activity in the out years.
So we think that this is that the story is still intact.
It's just a little bit postponed as a result of the weather.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Greg Melich with Evercore ISI.
Please proceed with your question.
I've got two follow-up questions.
First on the top line if we think about the comp store sales growth decelerating about 250 bips second quarter from first it sounds like pretty much all of that would have been in the non-residential or non-residential repaint.
Is that a fair assumption or was there also a deceleration there just from a high level? No that is not completely accurate Greg.
For sure we saw deceleration in that space.
But residential also particularly in the new area is below our expectation.
Okay.
So it would be fair to say maybe of the 250 bips deceleration 50 or 100 was related to residential and the rest would have been commercial and new construction? We're not parsing those numbers like that but directionally you're in the ballpark.
Okay got it.
And then the second question was on SG&amp;A.
Sean it was helpful just what you did describing HGTV but if you were to leave that out what was core SG&amp;A running on in the quarter and how should we expect that to play out in the second half especially now that you have a new guidance number for the top line? Correct.
I think the new guidance number we've said all along that we felt that we were going to have efficiencies in our SG&amp;A but that's when we were at the mid to high single digits.
I think that's I'm going to stress a little bit.
We're very careful not to break out SG&amp;A even by a customer.
I think that you know for us we're probably not going to break out the HGTV SG&amp;A versus the non-SG&amp;A.
I think we're just trying to give you that you can see in the second quarter the pop but we're not going to give you a finite number.
Would it be fair to say though it's in your new guidance range that you think you could still leverage for SG&amp;A? Yes.
Okay great.
And if I could sneak in one on the international to Latin America I think Sean you mentioned the guidance change was not just FX so can you tell us -- so what specifically was that? Was it Latin American volume? Was it Asia? What was the other component? It starts with Brazil which continues to be a tough story from an economic standpoint.
We're seeing the Petrobras scandal with really long legs throughout the entire country.
That's actually impacting some of our Asian operations as well because of our position with Petrobras and their production opportunities over there for things markets as well accelerated by poor economic conditions and bad currency.
Thank you.
Our final question of the day is coming from the line of David Wang with Morningstar.
Please proceed with your question.
I just wanted to ask about the pace of store openings.
You mentioned that you wanted to do it perhaps in the back end of the -- in fact I was wondering what's the reason for pushing it back other than a little bit sooner is.
Well I would tell you this.
It's not by design and it's a discussion that we have with our teams on a regular basis.
We typically towards the end of the year as our developers are pushing to get their projects done have a run at the end of the year and then we're reloading going in throughout the year.
And we're trying to spread those out a little more evenly throughout the year but it's not by design.
We're pushing these through and getting them in as quickly as we can and we've got a lot of confidence in the models.
We're continuing to invest in those stores.
And then on -- mid single-digit declines in raw material costs did you see the really high gross margin holding on past 2015 or do you see more perhaps pricing pressure or other things that could bring you back down afterwards? You know we always look at the way we run the company as we think these gross margins over time are going to continue to grow.
We think our operating margins are going to continue to grow.
So you're going to have years where Raw Materials are going to hit you or come back or do what they are doing this year.
We feel very good about our model and the way we're running the company that eventually we're going to have our higher gross margin.
I would prefer not to comment on the 2016 gross margin yet.
All right.
And then -- I think you guys mentioned that you still see 1.3 million to 1.4 million housing starts long-term.
Does this projection bake into the I guess population of millennials that are coming into the home buying age into the next say decade or so? Yes David.
Actually the 1.3 to 1.4 is what we consider to be kind of a normalized sustainable rate of build.
We think that given the rate of household formation today the fact that inventories of homes for sale both new and existing are very low and that apartment occupancy rates are very high that this cycle should peak above the 1.3 to 1.4 million level.
And then that 1.3 to 1.4 million normalized should trend upward as population grows.
Any idea how high you guys see it peaking? You know the last cycle peaked at 2.3 million.
We hope this cycle doesn't get to that level.
Thank you.
It appears there is no additional questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any additional or concluding comments.
Thanks again Jessie.
As always this is Bob I will be available for the balance of today tomorrow and throughout next week to answer your follow-up questions.
We would like to thank you for joining us today and thank you for your continued interest in Sherwin-Williams.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
We thank you for your participation and you may disconnect your lines at this time.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining the Sherwin-Williams Company's review of the Third Quarter 2015 Financial Results and expectations for the fourth quarter and full year.
This conference call is being webcast simultaneously in listen-only mode by issuer direct via the Internet at www.sherwin.com.
An archived replay of this webcast will be available at www.sherwin.com beginning approximately two hours after this conference call concludes and will be available until Monday November 18 2015 at 5 pm Eastern time.
Following the Company's review of the third quarter financial results and outlook for the fourth quarter and full year we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the call over to Bob Wells Senior Vice President Corporate Communications.
Please go ahead Sir.
Thanks Terry.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
We are going to begin the call as usual this morning with some prepared remarks by John Morikis President and Chief Operating Officer and Chris Connor Chairman and CEO.
Following their remarks we will open the call to questions and Sean Hennessy our Chief Financial Officer and Al Mistysyn Vice President Corporate Controller are here with us this morning to participate in the Q&amp;A session.
Before I pass the microphone to John let me remind you that this conference call will include certain forward-looking statements as defined under U.S.
federal securities laws with respect to sales earnings and other matters.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A full declaration regarding forward-looking statements is provided in our earnings release transmitted earlier this morning.
In the interest of time we've also provided some balance sheet items and other selected financial information on our website at www.sherwin.com under investor relations third quarter press release.
With that let me turn the call over to John to review our performance for the third quarter.
Thanks Bob.
Good morning everyone.
Our results in the third quarter 2015 clearly demonstrate the earnings power of this business model.
Although we faced some difficult headwinds to revenue growth mostly related to currency devaluation further softening in demand for industrial coatings and a slow recovery in domestic construction activity diluted net income per common share increased 18.5% to $3.97 an all-time high for any quarter in our history.
Sales volumes lagged in many of our operating segments but our domestic architectural paint volumes remain strong and drove operating rates higher in our US manufacturing and distribution facilities.
This resulted in significant operating leverage in the quarter.
This operating leverage combined with stable pricing favorable raw material costs in most of our domestic businesses and good SG&amp;A expense control across the Company drove consolidated gross margin TVT margin and net income as a percent of sales falls to record levels.
I will spend a few minutes highlighting overall Company performance for third quarter 2015 compared to third quarter 2014 then comment on each reportable segment.
Consolidated net sales increased of 0.1% to $3.15 billion.
Solid domestic demand for architectural paint was mostly offset by weak volume demand in our non-domestic business and currency devaluation.
Consolidated gross profit dollars increased $103 million year over year to $1.57 billion and gross margin increased 320 basis points to 49.9% of sales from 46.7% in the third quarter of last year.
Selling General and Administrative expenses for the quarter increased $9.3 million to $993.6 million.
As a percent of sales third-quarter SG&amp;A was 31.5% up 30 basis points from last year.
Interest expense for the quarter was $17 million an increase of $970 000 over third quarter last year.
Consolidated profit before taxes in the quarter increased $76.7 million or 16.2% to $551 million.
Our effective tax rate in the third quarter this year was 32% compared to 31.2% in the third quarter of 2014.
For the full year 2015 we expect our effective tax rate to be in the low 30%s compared to last year's rate of 31.2%.
Consolidated net income increased $48.3 million or 14.8% to $374.5 million.
Net income as a percent of sales increased to 11.9% compared to 10.4% in the third quarter last year.
Diluted net income per common share for the quarter increased 18.5% to $3.97 per share compared to $3.35 per share in third quarter 2014.
Unfavorable currency translation decreased earnings-per-share $0.09 in the quarter.
Now looking at our results by operating segment.
Paint stores group turned in another strong profit performance in third quarter although sales were lighter than expected.
Segment sales increased 2.9% to $2.09 billion.
In comparable-store sales sales by stores opened more than 12 calendar months grew 2.1%.
Regionally in the third quarter our southeastern division led all divisions followed by Midwestern division Southwestern division and the Eastern division.
Paint stores group segment profit for the quarter increased $75.6 million or 17.5% to $507.4 million.
Segment profit as a percent of sales increased to 24.3% from 21.3% last year.
During the quarter our paint stores group continued to expand its store footprint opening 23 net new stores.
This brings our year-to-date net openings to 45.
We remain very confident in the long-term market opportunity for this group and we are on pace to open between 100 and 110 new stores this calendar year and close between 20 and 25 redundant store locations.
Today our store count in the US Canada and the Caribbean stands at 4048 compared to 3959 a year ago an increase of 89 locations in the past year.
For our consumer group sales increased 9.4% to $421.6 million from $385.2 million last year due primarily to the volume contribution from our HGTV Home by Sherwin-Williams Paint program at Lowe's stores.
Segment profit for the consumer group increased $9.3 million or 11.8% to $88.3 million from $79 million last year.
Segment profit as a percent of external sales increased to 20.9% from 20.5% in the same period last year.
For our Global Finishes Group.
Sales in US dollars decreased 9.3% to $486.1 million in the quarter as global industrial coatings demand declined further and currency headwinds strengthened.
Unfavorable currency translation decreased net sales for the segment 8.3% in the quarter compared to last year.
Global Finishes Groups business in North America performed better than any other region; however volume declines in all regions in the third quarter compare to the same period last year.
Segment profit in US dollars decreased 9.2% in the quarter to $55.1 million from $60.8 million last year due primarily to currency translation and a $6.3 million gain on the early termination of a customer agreement recorded in the third quarter 2014.
Unfavorable currency translation reduced segment profit $9 million.
As a percent to net external sales Global Finishes Group segment profit was flat at 11.3% in the quarter compared to last year.
Our Latin American Coatings Group continues to operate in a very challenging economic environment.
Third-quarter net sales for the group stated in US dollars decreased 22.1% to $156 million.
Volumes in the quarter were negative and unfavorable currency translation decreased net sales by 23.6%.
Segment profit in the third quarter stated in US dollars decreased to $2.1 million from $11.8 million in the same period last year.
Lower sales volumes currency-related raw material cost inflation and unfavorable currency translation in the quarter were only partially offset by selling price increases.
Currency translation decreased segment profit $5 million in the quarter.
As a percent of net sales segment profit was 1.4% in the quarter compared to 5.9% in the third quarter 2014.
That concludes our review of results for the quarter so I will turn the call over to Chris Connor who will make some general comments and highlight our expectations for fourth quarter and full year.
Chris? Thanks John and good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us today.
I think John's opening comments pretty much said it all.
Revenue growth was weaker than expected in the quarter but the earnings power of our Company has never been stronger.
Volume demand lagged our initial expectations for the quarter in virtually every market we serve but we remain focused on delivering positive results regardless of the demand environment.
I feel confident in saying that is precisely what we did in the third quarter and have done throughout the year.
In the first nine months earnings per share increased 22.3% over last year on revenue growth of just 2%.
Our year-to-date consolidated operating margin and gross margin are both at all-time highs and we maintain our pricing discipline despite soft demand in a very competitive market environment.
Our paint source group provides the clearest picture of domestic market conditions and there were some noteworthy bright spots in the quarter.
Sales of residential retained contractors through our paint stores continue to grow at a double-digit pace.
Sales volumes for the new construction markets both residential and nonresidential also increased compared to last year but at a slower pace than the residential retained market.
Our DIY business was down slightly in the quarter and protective and marine coating sales were down significantly.
In total Paint Source Group grew third-quarter revenues by just under 3% with volume growth slightly stronger than that and architectural paint volumes well outpacing revenues.
Our consumer group is working closely with Lowe's to build momentum behind the HGTV HOME by Sherwin-Williams paint program.
As we indicated on our second quarter call HGTV sales through Lowe's are trending towards the low end of our target of 2% to 3% of consulted revenues for 2015.
Consumer group's core business performed better in the third quarter than second constant roughly flat to third quarter last year.
We continue to see deteriorating demand for our product outside of North America.
Sales volumes in most Latin American countries fluctuated modestly compared to third quarter of 2014 with the exception of Brazil where volumes and revenues declined significantly.
The impact of currency devaluation once again was worse than anticipated in the quarter.
Global Finishes Group also felt the brunt of softening industrial coatings demand and deteriorating currencies in both Europe and Latin America but made progress in offsetting these effects through price increases and tight SG&amp;A control.
Our third quarter was also a record quarter for past generation.
Net operating cash in the first nine months was $902.5 million up about $21 million over last year the third quarter accounting for about $553 million of the total.
We're on pace again this year to generate net operating cash at a rate above 10% of net sales or at 10.3% year-to-date despite higher working capital required to support the HGTV HOME program at Lowe's.
Nine-month working capital picked up slightly to 11.1% of sales from 10.8% last year.
Free cash flow which is net operating cash less CapEx and dividends was $557 million compared to $583 million last year.
We continue to invest a portion of the Company's cash back into the business in the form of capital expenditures.
Through the first nine months of 2015 we spent $158 million on CapEx.
Depreciation expense was $127 million and amortization expense was $20 million.
For the full-year 2015 we anticipate CapEx spending to be in the range of $220 million to $240 million.
Appreciation will be about $170 million and amortization will be about $26 million.
In the third quarter we repurchased 325 000 shares of our common stock on the open market bringing our year-to-date total to 2.575 million shares and an average price of $282.20.
On September 30 we had remaining authorization to acquire 2.65 million shares.
On October 21 our Board of Directors approved an additional authorization to acquire 10 million shares of the Company stock for treasury which will be added to the 2.65 million shares remaining from the previous authorization.
The Board also approved the quarterly dividend of $0.67 per share up from $0.55 per share last year payable on December 4 to shareholders of record on November 13.
Looking ahead to the balance of the year we anticipate our consolidated net sales for the fourth quarter will be low single digits and percentage terms compared to last year's fourth quarter.
With sales at that level we estimate diluted net income per common share in the fourth quarter to be in the range of $1.70 to $1.95 per share compared to $1.37 per share earned in the first quarter of last year an increase of 33% at the midpoint of the range.
For the full-year 2015 we expect consolidated net sales to increase off by a low signal digit percentage compared to full-year 2014.
With annual sales at that level we are updating our guidance calling for diluted net income per common share for 2015 to be in the range of $10.75 to $11 per share compared to $8.78 per share earned in 2014 an increase of almost 24% at the midpoint of the range.
Again thanks to all of you for joining us this morning and I would be happy to take your questions.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ghansham Panjabi of Robert W.
Baird.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Hey Ghansham.
Maybe John with the new high watermark for margins.
He's up to the task don't worry Ghansham.
John good luck with that.
First off on the Paint Stores Group and your 2.1% reported same-store sales can you sort of parse out for us the performance between architectural and some of the other protective coatings in that market that you saw in that channel? The architectural side was by far the strongest.
We had a very good and strong performance in architectural and our industrial protective and marine side we clearly faced some headwinds there.
We do very well particularly in the petrochem area we out index probably the market by quite a bit and with the softness there that has a netiquette impact on our volume.
So architectural two to three times? Yes.
And I guess on that note should we expect same-store sales to continue to be pressured by these categories in 2016 or do you think there will be a tailwind from the [indiscernible].
This is Sean Hennessy.
When you look at 2016 I think we're putting that together right now and I think in January when we discuss the fourth quarter we'll also be giving you some guidance on 2016 and give you a clearer picture.
Okay.
Thanks so much guys.
Our next question comes from Arun Viswanathan of RBC.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just curious on the raw materials side.
We did have some declines here as well in the third quarter.
Are you still kind of sticking to the mid single-digit decline in 2015 and what's your outlook for 2016? Yes.
This is Bob.
We are still sticking to our mid single-digit decline for year-over-year average raw material basket for the industry.
We think in the back half it is likely trending to the high end of a mid single-digit range just based on the trajectory of raw materials over the course of the year but we're standing by ever mid-single digit outlook.
For 2016? Right.
I'm sorry Arun.
Maybe I misunderstood the question.
We are really not in a position to give a raw material outlook for 2016 yet.
We will do that on our year-end call.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
As a follow up on the volume side 2% comp in the quarter.
I was just curious how that played out versus your own expectations.
I think last time we were expecting a slight increase in Q3 versus Q2 which did a 3.9 and then I guess similarly maybe you could just talk about if there's been any structural changes to the market which would prevent you from going back to the kind of mid single-digit level for next year? Thanks.
I would tell you when you look at our sales guidance for the third quarter to where we came in I think that we were a little disappointed in the comps store and stores group.
We were not disappointed at all in the architectural performance.
We felt that we continually said over the long run we think we can beat the market by one and a half to two times.
We think we are right there.
On the protective marine side there was a little bit of a challenge maybe a little more of a challenge than we thought and that hurts us two ways.
That hurts us in the volume and secondly the average selling price.
So that has a little more effect on the cause of that Q1 to be lower.
Structurally those type of things on the architectural side we still are as confident as ever.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Aram Rubinson of Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Two questions.
First of all on the paint stores.
You did indicate that the volumes were higher than the comp.
Can you just give us a sense on the price mix element? I think last quarter it was a negative 1.5%.
What are we looking at in the third quarter for price mix and maybe break it down? And then also I know you were going after the R&amp;R contractors a little bit more.
That might have hurt your mix in Q2.
What did we do with that in the third quarter? I think the biggest impact of the price mix Aram has been the comments that you are hearing this morning about the struggles continuing into protective and marine.
As a reminder these are gallons that can sell upwards of $100 a gallon for us.
As we commented the pricing disciplines of the Company are in great shape.
You see that in the margins.
Our residential repaint numbers are up double digits as we commented so the price mix issues are really holding up fine on the price side it's just the types of end market gallons are having a little impact here.
Then could you help us.
I think you guys are doing some things on the store front that you may not have talked about which is kind of leaning down the stores doing more centralized deliveries working capital being a bit more centralized.
Are there things you are doing on the store side that are worth airing in that regard? No.
Nothing worth talking about truthfully.
Our focus is on making sure that our people and our products are where our customers need them.
So anything that we're doing in the field is to better align our resources with our customer's needs.
And there is really no programs that we're undertaking Aram in that space at all.
That is just not beyond our normal efficiency practices.
And then just if you can give us the gross profit dollar increase by segment and then I'll leave you guys for the next questioner.
Okay.
Give me one second.
Gross margin dollar changed in the third quarter by segment same-stores group increased $89.2 million.
Consumer was increased by $34.2 million.
Global Finishes Group was down $5.6 million and the Latin America Coatings Group was down $[17.8] million.
Got it.
Thank you.
It looks like your Paint Store Group gross margin was about the same as the house from our map.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from Duffy Fischer of Barclays.
Question on how you achieve your awesome margins in Paint Stores.
Obviously if volumes were not as strong as you had anticipated -- incremental margins are very strong so every gallon you don't sell should hurt.
The mix seems to hurt in protective and marine as a higher ASP so I'm assuming more profitable but yet you just crushed the margins.
Can you talk through how you were able to do that? A couple things.
Again just back to the point that Chris just reiterated I think architectural gallons we're really good I think that any time we get those architectural gallons going in the right way.
I think that number two we had really good SG&amp;A control in Storage Group.
So when you see our total SG&amp;A up $9 million I know it's 3/10 of a percent of sales so that's going pretty well.
And the Comex.
We had the Comex integration in the third quarter.
We are now fully through it.
We think the third quarter was you see the full effect of the Comex.
You see it in two places.
When you talk about this Comex you see it in Stores Group as well as you see it in Consumer Group.
And you look at the operative margins that consumer was able to generate so that Comex acquisition is doing very well now integrated very well by our teams in the field and you're seeing those types of things in both of the segments.
Okay.
And then maybe just a to shift a quick to the HGTV.
We've gone through one paint season trending towards the bottom end of the range you thought about.
What's the after action review on that? What went well? What didn't? Is it just going to take a little bit longer brand recognition and stuff like that and what should we expect different next year? Duffy as we look at this going forward we're quite excited.
We have got a good partner with a good relationship there.
We've learned there is no question about it and we're comfortable with the direction we're going here.
We continue to work hard with the store associates as well as Lowe's corporate.
We've expanded our SKUs just recently launching into a satin finish which is a very important finish in the home center channel so we're expanding our SKU count we are getting more in tune with our customer and quite frankly we're looking forward to a strong future with this program.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Duffy.
Our next question comes from Dennis McGill of Zelman &amp; Associates.
Thank you.
I guess this question is on the overall gross margin.
Setting a record high and I think you've obviously said that a lot of times over the years but is there a point where you worry at all about competitive actions or worry more than normal about competitive actions or threshold where you feel like you have achieved everything on the margin side? Dennis we worry about that every day so thanks for calling that out to our attention.
Obviously the market dictates the prices we can get for our products.
We compete in a very respected industry.
The quality of our products and the services can command a price in the market I think you're seeing the leverage of the business model come to fruition here.
Okay.
And on the protective and marine can you maybe just split out a portion of revenue within that segment that would be tied to that piece of the business? Tied specifically to the petrochemical part of it? Not just petro but the protective and marine as a total within Paint Store? Inside the store's business? Yes.
That would be low to mid teens Dennis 13% to 15% of the Paint Stores Group revenue.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you and Chris thank you for the honesty and humor over the years.
We'll miss you.
Appreciate it.
Our next question comes from Jeff Zekauskas of JPMorgan.
Good morning.
It's [indiscernible] in for Jeff.
How are you? You said that your core consumer gross was flat in the quarter so that means that HGTV contributed maybe $40 million to sales? Is that about right? That's in the range.
That's an range.
Okay.
And another gross margin question.
So prices went low again this third quarter and as best as we can tell nobody has realized those benefits yet.
Very few raw material inventories probably in the fourth quarter.
Do you expect to have more raw materials benefits in the first half next year? We obviously give a detailed raw material outlook on our year-end call in January.
We have commented that based on the current trajectory of the petrochemical side of the raw material basket raw materials should be a tailwind next year.
We will give you a little more color around that at year end.
Okay.
And lastly do you have in outlook for your corporate expense in the fourth quarter? There was a pretty large environmental component in the fourth quarter last year and probably reappear? Exactly.
When you look at it we do not have the environmental repeating.
I think when you see the EPS guidance we have given you versus last year you can see that -- and that environmental went into the admin segment so yes just because of that you're going to see an improvement in that admin segment.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from PJ Juvekar of Citi.
Good morning.
It's Dan Jester on for PJ.
I think I heard you correctly that you said that the DIY business at the stores was down in the quarter.
I was just wondering are you seeing any evidence that maybe the program at Lowe's is taking DIY customer away from your store? No.
We don't think that is the impact in the quarter at all.
That HGTV program was a de minimus part of our store's business.
We've always felt that the customer that chooses to shop in a specialty paint store is a fundamentally different customer than a big box customer.
And in the quarter softness was really driven over some timing and promotional activity earlier in the quarter and it's actually been rebounding nicely.
We had a good September in DIY stores to our stores business.
Okay and then kind of sticking with that theme.
I believe you talked previously about kind of re-energizing your investment plans and some of your other brands and consumers like Dutch Boy and Pratt &amp; Lambert.
Should we be thinking about any major programs using any of those brands in the future? We are obviously looking at every brand and evaluating the investments that we go in there.
We're going through our planning process right now with our teams.
You would expect that our diversified brands team is in fact looking at some of those brands to get behind and we will be talking about those as we roll into next year.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bob Koort of Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
This is Chris Evans on for Bob.
The challenging environment outside of North America if you could talk about how you plan to sort of manage those declines you're seeing in Latin America in your global finishes brand? I think that as a company we've always taken a look first and foremost when you're looking in Latin America if you look at the history of us making sure that we remain cash positive and just like Argentina in 2002 and some of things that happened in the 90s with hyperinflation we continue to make sure and we stay cash positive which makes it easy to continue to invest in those kinds of countries.
Secondly whether it's even in United States stores group in Houston in the 80s or other places if there's something -- we try to take advantage of these types of markets and we're looking at assets and we're looking at investments down there that eventually will come back.
We think Latin America is having a tough time currency-wise but the things will be able to do in Mexico this year and we're still investing in the rest of the Latin America group for us.
We feel very good about the long term of this business.
Thanks.
And then you talked about raws and margin expansion a bit and maybe I missed it but did you break out or could you break out what portion of that margin expansion was from raws? Yes.
What we prefer to say is when you look at the Comex integration the ability for us to take those gallons through our own footprint and I think that's completed and gallon gains.
You have the gallon gains over in Stores Group as well as Consumer Group so those factors are well over half.
We don't break it out in those -- we say those that's the majority of the margin improvement and raws is just the smaller piece of that.
Chris the other thing is if there's a positive mix shift with Stores Group growing faster than any other segment that has a positive effect on gross margin as well.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from Chuck Cerankosky of Northcoast Research.
Good morning everyone.
Nice quarter.
You guys addressed a lot of the mix and margin questions with Paint Stores but I want to make sure understand something.
If you're looking at some of these protective and marine coatings obviously they can sell for quite a bit more than the architectural.
Is it right to assume automatically that they have a high margin and then what happens when we're dealing with the strong operating leverage in the architectural gallons? John can you talk about how all that mixes together in the final margin number we see? Yes.
When you look at the protective marine that's going through the stores group it's not very different.
The operating margins the SG&amp;A and so forth it's very close to the architectural business but as you say the costs are higher and the selling prices are higher.
So that means the strength in architectural volume was really driving the train? Yes.
Alright.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
Hey guys.
This is [Matt] [ph] in for Vincent.
I was wondering if you could speak to the underlying demand environment in Canada and the impact Paint Store Group and Consumer there.
Demand in Canada has been spotty.
With our new acquisition Comex rolling in now we're excited about the future here.
This brand that we bought in and the conversion we're going through offers us opportunity as we consolidate the general paint brand into our Sherwin brand.
So going forward it may in fact come from market share gains but we're expecting to move forward in Canada.
Okay.
Great.
And then in terms of the impact of inventory cycles in the big box retailers did you feel any effects from that throughout the quarter? No.
Nothing to speak of.
No.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from Dmitry Silversteyn of Longbow Research.
Good morning.
I think a lot of my questions have been answered but I would like to follow-up on obviously the shortfall in revenues and your performance for the earnings line above the top end of the guidance you provided from the first quarter.
What were the one or two sort of biggest differences between your expectations regarding cost for the margin side heading into the quarter versus what turned out to be the case? I think what it really came down to Dmitry was protected marine sales and secondly was the currency.
The currency was -- we did not have the Brazilian Real getting close to 4 to 1 and those two things but when we looked at what we thought we could do with the Comex integration and the selling price and the architectural side it was pretty close to what original guidance was.
So that's my question Sean.
You had revenues that were lower than you expected for a variety of reasons but your earnings were above the top end of your expectations or top end of your guidance so something must have happened between the revenue line and the net income line.
Okay.
I think it was the SG&amp;A control.
No doubt about it.
I think the gross margin might have been a couple cents different than we thought but I think the SG&amp;A increasing only $9 million in the quarter.
I know the divisions has been working really hard to get that SG&amp;A down and I think that is the operating margin difference.
Are those levels of SG&amp;A spending sustainable when you see the business going forward or was this sort of a reaction to what you saw going on in the market with the currencies and demand and we can expect those SG&amp;A levels to recover somewhat as you head into 2016? No they are sustainable.
Going forward we believe we can continue to run.
At these levels.
Okay.
Secondly can you talk a little bit about it sounded like your pricing was relatively flat both in the core group and the consumer group.
Can you talk about the impact on the mix if you will on the revenue lines from lower protective and marine coatings and whatever else may be driving that as well as the consumer line? I'm sorry Dmitry.
Bob mentioned that protective and marine accounts for low teens percentage of our stores business and by design these are products that sell for two and three times what a typical architectural product sells for.
So a lot of that mix shift is coming as a result of the softness in that business.
I think we've commented that pricing is holding up well.
You're clearly seeing that in the margins performance so with the exception of kind of that customer shift inside that business there hasn't been a lot of mix.
We did comment that the residential repaint customer continues to grow at a double digit piece for us.
Those are good solid architectural gallons for us at reasonable pricing and you can see the impact of that go into the chain.
Okay.
If I'm looking at the price mix components and assuming that your prices flat year-over-year if I'm hearing sort of low single digits negative mix is that sort of the right way of looking at it? I think that -- with one exception Dmitry and that is we've talked about competitive pricing in the large commercial project that has a little bit of a negative effect on a very small piece of the market but by far and away the largest impact on the difference between sales and volume was that negative mix from primarily protective and marine.
Got you.
And then if I could follow up.
I want to make sure I heard you correctly.
Did you say that sales were approximately $40 million for the quarter for HGTV at Lowe's? Yes.
Because of the comment we made about relatively flat without and that's where the computation will get you to.
Okay.
That's down almost 60% from the second quarter which I understand benefited from that but if I'm sort of the $40 million number coming up with 150 maybe 200 from a prior quarter in the maybe warmer months that's sort of low end below the low end of the guidance that you issued for this business.
So are we sort of going to grow into this with a full paint season and maybe a couple more in 2016 2017 or was there some level of disappointment with the performance of this product at Lowe's this season versus It's on the low end of our range so yes we're disappointed.
We strive to exceed that range but going forward we have great confidence in our team and we have a great partner with a great relationship.
As I mentioned we've added a SKU here that's an important SKU in the satin finish and we continue having great discussions about other opportunities so I think you're right we're going to grow into this and were excited about the future here.
Okay.
Very good.
Let me follow-up.
Typically when offers discounts and prices my understanding is [indiscernible] on the paint supply on a 50/50 basis more or less.
I understand it's your agreement with Lowe's may be a little different.
Are you participating in this by one get one free gallon offer that is going on at Lowe's right now? We will not comment on that Dmitry.
We don't comment about the specifics of any customer.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Greg Melich of Evercore ISI.
Thanks good morning guys.
Two questions.
If you look at gross margin which was up 320 BPS for the Company how would you break that down year-over-year between raws and mix shift whether it be geographic or product? How should we think of that overall? Greg as an ongoing basis we have never broken price mix gallons out.
What we try to do from an earlier question is we're saying that when you look at the 320 you have the Comex integration which was very positive for us.
We've taken their gallons and their footprint through our footprint.
I think also the increasing gallons of the Stores Group as well as the increasing gallons in the Consumer Group and also as we've always said that the Stores Group has the highest SG&amp;A as a percent of sales so when you look at the operating margins that means that the gross margins are the highest as we sell directly to the end user.
As they become a bigger and bigger piece of the Company that is going to create that mix.
And then there was raw materials in there.
Those are all the factors and what we said is if you look without -- raw materials really didn't drive this.
It was the other three factors that drove it.
So the order you gave them we should assume is a rough order of importance? Yes.
Great.
The second question I had was a bit on the outlook and also what impact of the quarter.
You mentioned wet weather delaying some construction.
I know that was something that happened in the second quarter in June.
Could you give us some ideas of where that is and how that might be looking as you look forward? Yes Greg.
It looks very positive.
We commented on the call that the residential repaint activity has remained strong.
It's actually been strong for going on three years now and if you look at housing activity in general there's a lot of reason to believe that the recovery is still in full swing.
Household formations have been very strong and have remained strong.
Existing home sales are up almost 8% year over year.
Pending home sales up almost 10%.
Average home values are pricing and continues to rise which is healthy for the industry and on the new construction side it's even stronger with new home sales up almost 20% and single-family starts up more than 10%.
Non-residential starts slowed a little this year but the interesting thing this year there is that in 2015 despite it being down slightly from 2014 it's the second strong this year since 2008.
We have back to back to back strong years of starts in nonresidential activity which is going to drive commercial painting in the years ahead.
I guess I have one last one since we have Chris and John and the whole team there.
There's enough turmoil going on in the world.
Sometimes this is when opportunities really arise.
Are there parts of the word that you think Sherwin should be more greatly involved where for the next year or two if it gets worse could be a good opportunity to enter? Thanks.
We are always looking for those opportunities.
That could be by customer or by segment and we keep a close eye on to those.
As you should expect our teams on the ground are empowered and pursuing those opportunities as they present themselves.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from Ivan Marcuse of KeyBanc.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Real quick on the consumer business.
Why did margins continue to remain flat if you have higher volume and raw materials coming through? Why wouldn't you see some leverage there? Our operating margins in the consumer group were up 40 basis points in the quarter for the year.
We said that the Lowe's business is fairly neutral.
It's not accretive or dilutive this year.
How with all the sales could you get the operating margin up? So I think you can imagine what kind of increase that has.
That's really where -- I think it's a great positive story that again integration from Comex is creating that kind of value that the Lowe's business at close to zero operating margin is not affecting the total operating margins for the consumer.
In fact remember at the beginning of the year many people thought that the Consumer Group would go backwards in operating margins because of that Lowe's business.
Great.
And just a quick question probably for Sean this is for you.
Interest expense if I did the math right it looks like that was down a little bit.
Why did interest expense jump and what would you sort of expect the run rate and is there any plans to add that et cetera? Yes.
In the month of July we issued bonds took out the short-term debt.
We issued $800 million at effectively 4%.
That's $32 million.
When you look at next year we expect that our interest expense will be higher as we term that out.
You can imagine we were paying 20 22 basis points for that $800 million in the short-term market and now we're at 4% with that but we expect -- what we said is we think our interest expense will be up.
In fact Marybeth asked this question a couple quarters ago and that's about 20% next year.
The interest expense will be up 20%? Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Rosemarie Morbelli of Gabelli &amp; Co.
Good morning everyone and congratulations.
Since most of the questions or all of the questions have been asked about the operations in the third quarter I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about your new announcement you're paint shield and give us a feel for the market size how unique which may not be that unique to have something.
Can you touch on that particular basis? Well actually no one has a product like this.
This is a very unique and exclusive and patented technology and it is a product that we are very proud of.
The market size that you asked it's a little hard to define as we're finding more and more opportunities for this.
We look for the opportunities in schools athletic facilities in senior care facilities and hospitality settings even in residential areas wherever these infectious bacteria may exist we feel as though this product offers an application.
And in a nutshell what we have here is our Company has successfully suspended compound in a paint product that will kill bacteria.
It's very unique.
If you look at the issues the hospital space it's quite an issue.
The product that we have will kill 99.9% of staph MRSA E.
coli and a couple of other bacteria that really pose a serious challenge to our hospital and these other areas that we mentioned.
To develop a product that does not just inhibit these microbes but actually kills bacteria is very unique and it's the first EPA registered product of its kind.
So there might be other products but nothing like this.
So you say EPA registered is that -- how do you go through that process? Is that similar to FDA or do you take already an approved bug killer I can't pronounce any of those that has been already approved and then you only need the EPA to approve the fact that you can actually put it in your paint? No.
And the way you go through this is very painfully would be my answer.
It took us a number of years and quite an effort on our team's part.
We are very proud of our team and the process that they went through.
So it is a product that is as I mentioned EPA registered.
It's the first microbicidal paint that kills these bacteria.
It lasts up to four years.
We really believe this is a game changer in the industry.
We're very excited about it.
We had a wonderful launch yesterday and we're really looking forward to the opportunity that this product will present.
And you can't share more or less what your anticipation revenues that can be generated from this product over the next I don't know three or five years? We just do not disclose that type of information.
We're very excited though I will say that.
We're very excited.
Otherwise you wouldn't do it.
That's fair.
Thank you very much for your help.
Our next question comes from Jay McCanless of Sterne Agee.
Good morning guys.
First question I had is and this is going back to the oil and gas and the protective when the oil prices starting rolling over last fall did you see the gallons start to roll off at the same time or was there a lag effect and has that carried through to the last two to three quarters while oil prices have been coming down? I would say there was a little bit of a lag.
We didn't see it immediately but it has accelerated recently.
Okay.
And then could you disclose for global what percentage of that is going to be under the protective and marine and petrochemical what percentage of revenues? Yes.
We don't break that out but I will tell you the majority of that is actually in the Service Group.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from John Roberts of UBS.
Chris my thanks as well.
Was all of the HGTV sales in the quarter sell-through or was there still some sell into the channel going on? There was no sell in it was all selling out.
It was through.
There was no loading in.
And then some of your competitors talked about significant destocking in the retail channel at the end of the season.
Were your gains in spite of seeing that or did you really not see much of that? We didn't see that.
You didn't see it.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Wong of Morningstar.
Good morning and thanks for taking my question.
I just had one since a lot of them have been asked already.
Can you give us a sense of your operating leverage that you discussed.
Can you remind us what portion of your costs are fixed versus variable especially on the SG&amp;A line? On the SG&amp;A line we've always said that a high percentage of our SG&amp;A is fixed and we've always said that because we wouldn't open a store without a manager assistant manager the right to staffing model.
When we open a store we consider a lot of that fixed and that's how we manage a company.
We say if we're going to open a store probably when I sit there and look at it the way we look at it almost 90% of it is fixed 10% is variable.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Nils Wallin of CLSA.
Thanks and good morning just about.
I had a question on your top-line expectations for the fourth quarter.
Obviously this year-on-year for the third quarter was kind of flattish and you're assuming some sort of growth maybe mid single-digits in the fourth quarter.
What's the cause of that inflection point? I think if you look at the way and we're guesstimating here on the foreign currency but if you remember fourth quarter is when it really started to fall off.
If you think about the value of the dollar just jumped in the fourth quarter so we comparisons get better we don't think the currencies may get stronger but just the comparisons get better.
So we're seeing that.
And just looking at the business and where we're at in the other areas.
Someone said it earlier even though there was a lag we did start seeing some of the protective and marine in the fourth quarter being negatively affected.
We think those are the reasons you see the 1/10 going up to the mid low single digits.
Understood.
On the HGTV and Lowe's I know another participant asked about the buy one get one free and I believe that was in the third quarter.
It's continuing into the fourth quarter so I'm just curious how you think about that in terms of brand recognition brand quality.
Will this type of discounting cause you to rethink how the brand will be positioned next year? Again this would be a better discussion for Lowe's.
Their pricing of that product is something that they determine.
Okay.
And then just finally I guess in Global Finishes there was some degree of organic of weakness.
Is there any market share shifts happening because others who are in the refinish business seem to still see some growth there? In the automotive refinish business I'd say we do see some pressure there.
There's a great deal of consolidation that's taken on in that space.
We have found ourselves on the wrong side of some of the transactions that have taken place so we felt a some pressure in our market share.
And how do expect to address that? Well every day we're trying to address that.
Our products and our services we think are good.
We are trying to align ourselves with the right customers and ensure that the introductions that we have of both new products and our people are in the right place doing the right things at the right time.
Great.
Thanks for taking my question.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Bob Wells for any closing remarks.
Thank you again Carrie.
As always I will be available for the balance of today tomorrow and throughout the coming week to answer your follow-up questions.
I would like to thank you again for joining us this morning and thanks for your continued interest in Sherwin-Williams.
This concludes today's presentation.
Thank you for attending.
You may now disconnect your line.
Have a great day.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining the Sherwin-Williams Companys review of Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Results and Expectations for 2016.
With us on todays call are John Morikis President and CEO; Sean Hennessy CFO; Allen Mistysyn Vice President Corporate Controller; and Bob Wells Senior Vice President Corporate Communications.
This conference call is being webcast simultaneously in listen-only mode by issuer direct via the Internet at www.sherwin.com.
An archived replay of this webcast will be available at www.sherwin.com beginning approximately two hours after this conference call concludes and will be available until Wednesday February17 at 5 p.m.
Eastern time.
This conference call will include certain forward-looking statements as defined under U.S.
federal securities laws with respect to sales earnings and other matters.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A full declaration regarding forward-looking statements is provided in the Companys earnings release transmitted earlier this morning.
After the Companys prepared remarks we will open the session to questions.
Ill now turn the call over to Bob Wells.
Thanks Jessy.
Good morning everyone.
In the interest of time we provided some balance sheet items and other select financial information on our website www.sherwin.com under Investor Relations January 28 press release.
Our consolidated sales in the fourth quarter increased 1.4% $2.6 billion due entirely to higher paint sales volume through our Paint Stores and Consumer Groups.
For the full year sales increased 1.9% to $11.34 billion.
Unfavorable currency translation decrease consolidated net sales 3.6% in the quarter and 3.3% for the full year.
Consolidated gross profit in the fourth quarter increased $104.3 million to $1.3 billion and gross margin expanded to 50.8% of sales from 47.4% of sales in the fourth quarter of 2014.
For the year gross margin increased to 49% of sales from 46.4% of sales last year.
The increase in gross margin in the quarter and full year was due primarily to volume driven supply chain productivity and lower year-over-year raw material costs.
Selling general and administrative expense increased $6.1 million to $991.5 million in the fourth quarter but decreased as a percent of sales to 38.1% from 38.3% in the same quarter last year.
For the full year 2015 SG&amp;A expense increased $90.6 million to $3.91 billion an increase as a percent of sales to 34.5% from 34.3% in 2014.
Incremental SG&amp;A to support the new HGTV Home program at Lowes and new store openings and sales territory additions accounted for the majority of the SG&amp;A increase in the year.
Other general expense decreased $12.6 million in the fourth quarter and $7.2 million for the year due primarily to lower environmental expenses in both periods.
Interest expense for the quarter increased $4.1 million to $19.5 million.
For the year interest expense was $61.8 million compared to $64.2 million in 2014.
Profit before tax in the fourth quarter increased 57.4% to $297.2 million and for the full year increased 23.1% to $1.55 billion.
Our effective income tax rate for the fourth quarter 2015 increased to 33.4% from 29.7% in the fourth quarter last year.
For the year our effective tax was 32% compared to 31.2% in 2014.
Consolidated net income for the quarter increased $65.3 million to $198 million.
For the year net income increased $188 million to $1.05 billion.
Net income as a percent of sales in the quarter increased to 7.6% from 5.2% last year for the year net income as a percent of sales increased to 9.3% from 7.8% in 2014.
Diluted net income per common share in the fourth quarter 2015 increased to $2.12 from $1.37 per share in the fourth quarter of 2014.
For the full year diluted net income per common share increased 27.1% to $11.16 per share from $8.78 per share in 2014.
Now let me take a few minutes to break down our performance by segment.
Sales for our Paint Stores Group in the fourth quarter of 2015 increased 5.9% to $1.68 billion thanks to higher architectural paint sales volumes across all customer segments.
For the year net sales increased 5.2% to $7.21 billion.
This full year sales increase was also driven by higher architectural paint sales volumes across all customer segments.
Comparable store sales increased 5.1% in the quarter and 4.2% in the year.
Regionally in the fourth quarter our Mid-west divisions led all divisions followed by Eastern division Southeastern division and Southwestern term division.
Fourth quarter segment profit for Paint Stores Group increased 27.8% to $316.1 million due primarily to higher year-over-year paint sales volumes.
For the full year Paint Stores Group profit increased 19.3% to $1.43 billion from $1.2 billion in 2014.
The increase in segment profit for the year resulted from higher paint sales volumes that were partially offset by higher SG&amp;A expenses.
Segment profit margin for the fourth quarter increased to 18.9% from 15.6% last year.
Profit margin for the full year 2015 increased to 19.9% from 17.5% in 2014.
Turning now to Consumer Group.
Fourth quarter external net sales increased 13.6% to $314.6 million.
For the year Consumer Group sales increased 11.1% to $1.58 billion.
Most of the increase in sales for the fourth quarter and full year was from the HGTV Home by Sherwin-Williams Paint program at Lowes.
Segment profit for the fourth quarter increased 67.9% to $50.9 million from $30.3 million in fourth quarter 2014.
For the year segment profit increased 22.1% to $308.8 million from $252.9 million in 2014.
Consumer Groups segment profit as a percent of net sales in the fourth quarter increased to 16.2% from 11% last year.
For the year segment profit margin increased to 19.6% from 17.8% last year.
Most of the improvement in both fourth quarter and full year segment profit margins was from volume driven operating efficiencies.
For our Global Finishes Group fourth quarter net sales in U.S.
dollars decreased 9.5% to $454.8 million and full year sales decreased 7.9% to $1.92 billion due primarily to unfavorable currency translation.
Currency translation decreased sales in U.S.
dollars by 7.1% in the quarter and 7.5% in the year.
Stated in U.S.
dollars Global Finishes Group segment profit in the fourth quarter increased to $50.6 million from $39 million last year.
The increase in segment profit in the quarter resulted from the good expense control and lower year-over-year raw material costs that were partially offset by unfavorable currency translation which reduced segment profit $4.8 million.
For the year segment profit increased four tenths of a percent to $201.9 million from $201.1 million last year.
This full year profit improvement resulted from good expense control and lower raw material costs that were mostly offset by unfavorable currency translations of $26.5 million.
As a percent of net sales Global Finishes Groups operating profit was 11.1% in the fourth quarter compared to 7.8% last year and 10.5% for the year compared to 9.7% in 2014.
For our Latin America Coatings Group net sales decreased 23.5% to $158.7 million in the fourth quarter and decreased 18.2% to $631 million for the full year due primarily to unfavorable currency translation and lower volume sales partially offset by higher year-over-year selling prices.
Currency translation decreased sales in U.S.
dollars by 21.4% in the quarter and 19.3% in the year.
Stated in U.S.
dollars Latin America Coatings Group segment profit in the quarter decreased to $2.8 million from $13 million last year.
For the year segment profits decreased to $18.5 million from $40.5 million in 2014.
The decline in segment profit in both the quarter and the year was primarily due to unfavorable currency translations and lower volume sales partially offset by selling price increases.
Unfavorable currency translation decreased segment profit $5.3 million in the quarter and $16 million in the full year.
As a percent of net sales segment operating profit was 1.8% in the fourth quarter compared to 6.3% last year and 2.9% for the year compared to 5.2% in 2014.
That concludes the review of our operating results for the fourth quarter and full year 2015.
So let me turn the call over to John Morikis who will make some general comments and highlight our expectations for 2016.
John? Thanks Bob.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
As we announced last October on January 1 of this year I assumed the duties of Chief Executive Officer.
Back in 1971 British Rock Band THE WHO recorded the now famous lyric Meet the new boss Same as the old boss.
In our case the same may not hold true literally in every respect.
But it is certainly true when it comes to our mutual confidence in the Companys strategy our focus on growing market share through superior products and execution.
Our adherence to key performance metrics like return on net assets employed.
And net operating cash to sales and our shareholder friendly capital allocation.
These are the things that will define the value of Sherwin-Williams in the years ahead.
And I believe they are all moving in the right direction.
2015 was a year of ups and downs.
Our full year revenue of $11.3 billion set a new record for the Company but are well short of our original expectations.
One reason for this was stronger currency headwinds than originally anticipated.
Another was the weaker than expected demand for industrial coatings in certain categories.
Particularly those used to maintain oil and gas production and storage assets.
And in the middle two quarters of 2015 we broke our long standing practice of not giving weather reports on earnings calls as heavy rainfall across much of the country clearly affected paint demand.
This lower than expected revenue performance however did not translate to lower than expected profit or cash flow.
Our full year profit before tax net income earnings per share and net operating cash all met or exceeded the expectations we set back in January 2015.
Net income eclipsed $1 billion in 2015 for the first time in our Companys history.
This strong profitability in cash generation was largely due to the successful and accelerated integration of the Comex stores and consolidation of Comex manufacturing assets coupled with volume driven sales supply chain productivity in North America good SG&amp;A expense control and raw material cost tailwinds.
Looking ahead we expect the year-over-year incremental margin benefit from the Comex integration to diminish as we go through 2016.
Architectural paint sales through our Paint Stores picked up momentum in the fourth quarter but was again offset to some degree by negative volumes in protective and marine coatings.
Sales to residential leasing contractors continued to grow at double-digit paces.
Sales volumes to the new construction markets and DIY customers also increased compared to last year but at a full place than residential repaint.
In total Paint Source Group grew fourth quarter revenues by just under 6% with architectural paint volume growth outpacing revenues.
In the fourth quarter we opened 38 net new stores bringing our full year store opening total to 83 new locations.
And our total store count at year-end to 4 086 stores in the U.S.
Canada and the Caribbean.
Weve remained confident that our next milestone of 5 000 locations in North America is realistic and we intend to get closer to that goal by 90 to 100 stores this year.
Consumer Group also turned in a solid performance for the year.
The launch of the HGTV Home by Sherwin-Williams Paint program at Lowes was one reason but we also saw strong sales growth from another valued home center partner [indiscernible].
As a result Consumer Groups business grew by low-single digit percentage space in the fourth quarter.
Markets and economic conditions outside North America continue to be very challenging.
Sales volumes in most Latin American countries fluctuated modestly compared to fourth quarter of 2014 and with the exception of Brazil where volumes and revenues declined significantly.
The impact of currency devaluation once again was worse than anticipated in the quarter.
Global Finishes Group also felt the brunt of softening industrial coatings demand and deteriorating currencies in both Europe and Latin America but made progress in offsetting these effects through tight SG&amp;A control.
In 2015 we generated record net operating cash of $1.45 billion thanks in part to the terrific working capital management by all of our operating segments.
In spite of the incremental working capital required to support the HGTV Home program at Lowes our working capital ratio at year-end dropped to 8.6% of sales from 10.1% last year.
Free cash flow which is net operating cash less CapEx and dividends was $963.5 million compared to $665.7 million last year.
We used this cash from operations to fund capital expenditures increased our dividend and buyback shares for treasury.
Our capital expenditures in 2015 totaled $234 million.
Depreciation for the year was $170 million and amortization was $28 million.
In 2016 we anticipate capital expenditures of approximately $240 million depreciation of $185 million to $200 million and amortization of about $30 million.
Capital spending will run higher than normal in 2016 as we complete some facility renovation projects.
In 2015 weve returned more than $1.28 billion in cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
In the fourth quarter we acquired 1 million shares of the Companys stock for treasury bringing our full year to 3.575 million shares at an average cost of $278.57 per share and a total investment of just over $1 billion.
At year-end we have remaining authorization to acquire 11.65 million shares.
We paid $249.6 million in cash to shareholders through quarterly dividends.
2015 marked our 37th consecutive year of increased dividends per share a stream we intend to continue.
This year at our February meeting of the Board of Directors we will recommend approval of an annual dividend of $3.36 per share an increase of more than 25% over 2015.
Looking ahead to 2016 the demand for paint and coatings in most domestic markets looks encouraging.
Growth in residential starts and existing home turnover was solid throughout 2015 and the outlook for 2016 is equally encouraging.
Although contracts for new non-residential projects dipped slightly in 2015 it was still a strong year in absolute terms which bodes well for paint demand in the segment.
Outside the U.S.
it appears likely that sluggish market conditions and currency devaluation particularly in Europe and many Latin American countries will remain a challenge.
Our raw material basket has many moving parts.
But in total we believe were likely to see lower year-over-year input cost in 2016.
The continuing fall in the price of crude oil will no doubt have a positive impact on these petrochemical side of the raw material basket.
But these commodities will not necessarily move in linear relationship with crude.
The price of high-grade chloride TiO2 continued to slide over the back half of 2015 due to weak global demand and over capacity but bottom.
Based on these factors we would expect average year-over-year raw material cost for the paint and coatings industry to be down in the mid-single digit range in 2016.
Our outlook for first quarter 2016 is for consolidated net sales to increase in the low-single digit percentage range compared to last years first quarter.
With sales at that level we estimate diluted net income per common share in the first quarter will be in the range of $1.50 to $1.65 per share compared to $1.38 per share earned in the first quarter of 2015.
For the full year 2016 we expect net sales will increase in the low-single digit percentage range compared to full year 2015.
With annual sales at that level we estimate diluted net income per common share for 2016 will be in the range of $12.20 to $12.40 per share compared to $11.16 in 2015.
Again I like to thank you for sharing  yes being with us this morning.
And now wed like to - be happy to open up for questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen at this time we will be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from the line of John Roberts with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
Good morning John.
John I think one of the big tip on that.
The Who album was wont get pulled again.
On that note what is your thinking about raw materials given the volatility in oil as your guidance assuming relatively conservatively not much benefits here its going to take some time for oil to work its way down the supply chain? John this is Bob.
We think that there could be some benefit in the petrochemical side of the basket maybe as much as we saw in 2015.
We think that we saw a pretty big move in TiO2 in 2015 and were unlikely to see that figure move in 2016.
So mid-single-digit I think is a reasonable outlook for the industry.
And well as we usually develop a catch as we go through the year.
And then it is 83 store openings per year for the Paint Stores segment is that right rated to be a kind of steady state there? Yes.
I think theres about average for us.
Will adjust that as we go but I think thats about where we want to run.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
Hi.
Good morning and this is actually Mehul Dalia sitting in for Ghansham.
How are you guys doing? Hi Mehul.
First up 4Q same store sales is an acceleration over 2Q and 3Q so just wanted to know what changed and how did the non-architectural piece perform on a relative basis compared to the previous two quarters.
If you look at the  this is Sean Hennessy.
And so Ill take first  the second part first.
I think that non-paint sales performed fairly well.
I think that consistently throughout the year we had a nice year in the non-paint sales but they accelerated also.
I think that the Paint Store Group had a very nice quarter and there is chance have we dont usually talk about weather but the maybe weather helped us a little bit.
But I think that whats when you look at the second and third quarter versus fourth quarter.
We did use weather in the second and third quarter.
Thank you.
You see parts of that.
Got it.
Also whats your estimate how the industry grew in the U.S.
how it changed on perspective in 2015 and what are your expectations for 2016.
Yes.
Mig this is Bob.
We have very few data sources to go to help us with estimates of industry volume.
The American Coating Association models industry volume over the course of year.
They currently stand at an estimate of 5.5% growth for 2015 we think they are a little high.
We were thinking more in the 3% to 3.5% range but as we collect more data year-end data we'll kind of fine-tune that outlook but I think it's likely the industry will end up in the 3% to 3.5% range.
And your expectation for 2016 similar 3% to 3.5%? It could be a little stronger than that.
It depends on the weather patterns relative to last year but that's not a bad range.
Great and just one last one before I turn it over.
With the three selling season quickly approaching can you talk about some of the lessons learned at Lowe's in 2015 and if any strategy shift or anything that you guys are going to do in 2015.
Thank you.
Yes.
I don't think there is a strategy shift at all.
I think lessons learned include the importance of being very responsive obviously to our customers.
Really working well with associates in the aisles and helping them to be successful and knowledgeable in our products.
So I think we've got a very good strategy there.
I think we've got a very good relationship there and I think we're working very hard to be the best customer there as we do with all of our customers.
Great thank you so much.
Thanks Mehul.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes question for Sean just on gross margin.
Just when we think it can't get any better it does so particularly in the fourth quarter.
So I'm wondering how much of that was volume driven was there any sort of true up against your standard cost [indiscernible] turned out to be lower than you originally thought when you made the estimate on standard costing.
And what's been your outlook for next year if you in the year on a 50.8% gross margin that signal a pretty strong performance as we get into the paint season this year? Yes.
Don if you take a look at that 340 basis points approximately half of that was due to the paint volume increases for our North American supply chain.
That's really the number one thing that drove it.
That also includes integration of that Comex business that has been a nice piece of that.
Also you have to remember the mix because of the foreign currency exchange.
As U.S.
becomes bigger and bigger piece of that of our total sales our paint store group does have the highest gross margin.
So that helps on the other piece.
Now having said that LIFO is always trying to catch what you think is going to happen with the laws and the way the raws came in a was a slight help from the LIFO.
LIFO did help us especially in the Consumer Group and also a little bit in the Storage Group.
If you take a look about the long-term in the long-term I think we try to give you guidance what we think is long-term we think probably our long-term when you look at the makeup of the company and where we are going is in the mid-47 to the mid-49s.
I think that again when that foreign currency changes around instead of being at 80% U.S.
in North American sales youre going to start seeing that come down back into the 70s that will have the reverse impact on the gross margin so when we feel like were running at a normal area we think we are going to be in the 47.5% to 49.5% gross margin.
Sean what was the LIFO adjustment either in dollars or percentage terms? We are not going to break that out.
I would tell you that it was a help because you asked that question I wanted to point that out but its not enough that were going to put it in the K.
Alright thank you.
Thanks Don.
Hi good morning.
Good morning PJ.
Just on follow up on HGTV rollout that you had last year I understand that you were delayed in some stores and then you had a wet spring so given on that last year what are your expectations for this year in terms of volume growth and what are your margins for HGTV paint? Im going to jump in real quick.
I just want to remind everyone weve over the years have been very careful not to break out customer P&amp;Ls and because of the differentiating factor of HGTV in 2015 we try to give you some guidance but we really dont have any kind of plans to break the sales or the absolute gross margins or the operating margins.
We think its in our core now and youre going to see it going on in the future but so from that standpoint I think we are going to shy away from giving that customer specific P&amp;L but John you might want to comment? On the sales side I think we expect.
As I mentioned we are working closely with all levels of Lowes and were feeling good about the momentum as I mentioned.
I think its a matter of execution now and as I said were going to focus on being the best partner we can for them and every customer that we have.
And John you have just under 4 100 stores today and you said 5 000 is the target is that a saturation point for you in terms of numbers of stores and when do you think you might get there? Thank you.
Let me be clear 5000 is not our target its a milestone.
And I often say that  I refer to it because its between 4000 and our next number 6000 and so were going to stop at 5000 on the way.
We dont see a saturation point.
We continue to add stores each of our district managers maintain a real estate strategy and a plan to continue to invest in their stores and theres not a one of them that is raised their hand to say that the and really see no additional markets that they can add to.
Its our expectations that were going to continue to invest in those markets and continue to penetrate the opportunities in those markets and we are excited about that.
Is there a particular area where you want to add stores? We are obviously looking at the West Coast.
We shared with the community here that we look at households per paint store and we see a terrific opportunity in the West area of the country and again we remain very confident in this model.
This model in our ability to grow market share and to grow our operating leverage as we grow that incremental volume that gives us that confidence.
Thank you.
Good morning fellows.
Good morning Duffy.
In question theres a number of ways just to triangulate it but if you look at it Q4 you delivered and in the Q1 that youve guided to just take the mid-point in extrapolate that through 2016 theres a disconnect between how good those quarters were and kind of where the mid-point is for 2016.
Is there something in the back three quarters where theres a little bit a step down that we should take into account or is that just a good case of conservatism? No I think when you look at it way you just guided us to I think the first quarter I just want to remind you in Consumer Group because of the HGTV expenses if you remember the SG&amp;A expenses  we had a jump in the first quarter and we pointed out last year that that was going to be 100% SG&amp;A zero sales.
So I think this year were going to have relatively close to the same amount of SG&amp;A but some sales going against it so.
I think that helped us.
I think if you look over two years I think the first quarter would look more normal to you and would probably look more like the other three quarters we have in the guidance.
Okay great.
And then one of the issues in 2015 was it seems like your customers were running up against their bandwidth as far as just the number of painters they could employ.
Is your sense that they have been able to expand their paint force and therefore the opportunity for more sales is bigger this year in the U.S? Thats improved to some degree.
Its hard to put your fingers exactly on that but Id say in the market I think its gotten a little better.
Okay great.
Thanks fellows.
Thank you Duffy.
Hi John.
Good morning.
Good morning Bob.
I was curious what your appetite was for spending money down in South America opportunistically and whats going on down there or maybe theres a little bit of greater fear about forging ahead more aggressively what are your thoughts on? I think theres a little difference everywhere.
I think that two years ago we were really nervous about putting money down in Argentina.
And when you think about the exchange rate now with 13 times you look at Chile now theyve changed their government out so we feel okay investing in Chile.
Recovery long-term we still feel good about Brazil but were watching both of those governments and seeing what happens with some of the policies down there.
If the right opportunity would appear we would actually buy it.
I think that we still are looking at the long-term but I think on the marginal investments weve been very careful on what were going to spend down there.
When I say marginal Im not talking about distribution or manufacturing or marketing.
I think more on the admin side system sides those kinds of sides how much working capital will allow it to grow and so forth.
Were watching it.
We feel good about that.
Were still cash positive each and every country and that really helps us stay the course.
But we think eventually it might be a while it was interesting we were going through what we went through in the late 80s and early 90s when we actually had to do inflationary accounting in South America which I had to look at some of the rules like it had been so long.
We take a look at this spot and were watching these things but were being careful on the margins.
In a follow-up what are you seeing in results in Canada given the commodity influence growth rates there and what you see the path forward for 2016? Okay we dont break it by region but I could say directionally as you would expect the oil and gas market there has experience the pressure that one would expect.
We are growing in the market our acquisitions of the brand that came along with Comex general paint are in the process of integrating that in and were really excited about the momentum were gaining up there.
On the architectural side we are continuing to grow the Protective and Marine side we continue to see some pressure.
Got it thanks so much.
Thanks Bob.
Thanks Ive got a few quick ones.
Starting with the fourth quarter you beat the consensus estimate by about $0.18 and I couldnt help noticing that your guidance range for the entirety of 2016 is about $0.20 so Im just wondering why the range seems so narrow for 2016.
Maybe we could start there? If you took a look at the guidance we gave at the beginning of 2015 about a year ago we gave you $0.20 and $10.90 to $11.10.
I think weve changed this spend many many times.
Back in 2009 we gave you a guidance range of $1.
I think theres been a lot of moving parts but I think that we feel confident that were able to  whether it happens adjust to different things I would think were going to be able to get that kind of improvement.
Okay and then on your tax rate in the fourth quarter stepped up a bit.
How should we think about that tax rate in 2016? Yes.
I think that when we take a look at it the full year was about 32.1%.
I think its going to be approximately right around that number to maybe - if it comes in at 31.5% or 32.5% I wouldnt be surprised.
Okay.
And then lastly whats on the guidance you have an FX headwind baked in there? Yes.
We do.
just think about how the Brazilian real even the Canadian dollar we are talking about before we definitely have a foreign currency.
Foreign currency when you take a look at 2015 was much higher than we originally expected because I think everybody knows how the currencies are going and we thought it was prudent we definitely have foreign currency headwind in there.
And how much is it? We dont break that out.
Because there are so many different currencies and so forth but its significant.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Vincent.
Thanks good morning guys.
Good morning Arun.
Good morning.
I just had a couple of questions.
Following questions on the guidance topic can you help us understand maybe what you were thinking as far as architectural and paint stores and then the other segments on the top line basis looks like youre guiding to low single digits for the full Company.
Do you expect more of the same i.e.
weakness in Protective and Marine and our performance in architectural? I will tell you that when we look at our guidance I think the fourth quarter is pretty interesting.
Total we were at 1.4% sales gain Store Group was 5.9% so four times what we thought that we are going to be at.
I think that currency other things I think that we dont break out our guidance by segment but I think that to give you some indication that tells you where we think the growth is going to be But we do see to your point the issue of Protective and Marine we expect that pressure is going to continue for the foreseeable future.
Okay.
And then this is just as a follow-up on the raw side obviously some decline incremental in 3Q and 4Q.
If I go through the math I guess you expect that to continue to be a benefit in 2016.
Is there any reason why we shouldnt expect a nice benefit on the raw side and maybe you could just elaborate on the oil versus TiO2? Yes.
Arun and this is Bob.
We do expect to continue to see benefit from raw materials and weve commented that on the oil side it does take longer for a drop in propylene and ethylene to work its way through the acrylic chain and actually get to market.
So theres probably more tailwind on that side of the basket in the year to come than there is on the TiO2 side.
TiO2 took a pretty sharp drop in the back half of last year.
Well see that obviously the benefit of that in the first half of this year but TiO2 is approaching kind of its historic starting place of $100 pound on the spot market.
So we dont necessarily see a lot of further runway for TiO2 to decline.
Thanks.
Just one more thing up I can get in on the share buyback side what you are guys expecting to do in 2016? Thanks I think weve been pretty consistent with our cash utilization and I think that we feel pretty good about the cash generation of the Company.
I think weve been consistently generating cash and strong cash over the last 15 or so years and Im going back to when we took were put into these jobs.
I think youre going to see us continue to invest in the business in CapEx in new stores and so forth.
I think that were going to pay out dividends.
You heard the dividend going over $3.30.
And then when we look at acquisitions and were going to look at buying back stock and I would tell you Id be surprised if we were holding cash at the end of next year.
Thank you.
Thanks Arun.
Hi this is actually Chris on for Aram.
Hey Chris.
I had a couple questions.
One is housekeeping.
Can you give us the gross profit segment by segment by any chance? Sure.
Just give me one second here.
Paint Store Group was up $97.8 million in the quarter.
Consumer Group $27.5 million.
Global Finishes Group was down $4.8 million and Latin America was down $15.1 million.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And then just want to dig in a few brief questions in terms of Global Finishes so what you attribute like a sudden step up and profitability obviously GM is going help a little bit but what made major improvements did you put on the cost side and how sustainable is that in the next several quarters? Right.
When we look at that Global Finishes Group in the fourth quarter was up 29% it was the operating profit was really driven by SG&amp;A expense control.
And favorable raw material costs which more than offset the negative currency because they had to go against currency also and I would tell you we feel pretty good about this SG&amp;A savings that we have.
I will tell you years ago when this Global Finishes Group was operating at 3% to 3.5% after we bought the Becker Sayerlack and Inchem acquisitions we said eventually we felt that could run at 12% and so we think that were at a pretty good spot.
We think in the future a lot of that improvement has come from those efficiencies we are going to get and I think in the future its going to be driven by market share gains and sales gains.
Team there has done a really nice job of streamlining the noncustomer facing functions and give their team a lot of credit for continuing to focus on that.
Okay.
Great.
And this one quick one.
You called out in the  one potential reason for strength in the consumer segment was there something going on there in terms of a new program launch or you can name it from that what kind of drove that strength? We have a very good relationship with a very good customer there.
And so we are continuing to focus our efforts there as I mentioned earlier we want to be the best supplier to each of our customers and so weve really just tried to listen to a very good customer being responsive and help them grow and thats our game plan.
Alright great.
All thanks.
Thanks again.
Welcome Chris Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Scott.
I just want a better understand the planning assumption for 2016 you guys posted 27% earnings growth last year and over the past four years its been about 20% to 25% on average in this year that you are guiding to 10%.
despite the fact you continue to feel good about the architectural paint market and raw material tailwind so I guess there is an offset from Comex not being as accretive but what else is in the budget that we should consider that should contribute to lower earnings throughout the share? I think that the FX headwinds where I would say be a little more our estimate is a little stronger than it was going into last year.
I think that Comex was a really strong one and I think you heard Bobs comments about raw materials.
Even though they are going to be a nice tailwind I dont see the tailwind being as strong in 2016 as it was in 2015.
And now you guys done on Comex.
I thought the previously Comex you had a multi-year runway so what inning are you in with that integration? I would say we are in inning eight.
That the bottom of the eighth and the home team is winning big.
I think were going to see it we were able to accelerate it.
Who we do sort out the  we are continuing to invest in the store transitions over team Sherwin so Seans point largely on the supply chain side I think that team did a terrific job and weve clearly moved some of that up from what we have expected to see in 2016 into 2015.
And we were successful also on the store side but theres still some work to do on the store side and thats what we are working on here as we roll into 2016.
Great.
Very helpful.
And just one last one for you Sean.
The cash flow conversation for sales that you guys kind of talked to investment community about it right around 13% this year is that is it something unusual or is that kind of the new run rate of the company going forward? I think we were helped with if you look at the working capital again we define working capital as receivables plus inventory minus payable was driven all the way down to 8.6% and I would tell you that our long-term goal is to reduce that working capital as a percent of sales.
So that we can go from 10% to 11% and the long-term cash as a conversation from sales and I will tell that our working capital at 8.6%.
our inventory is in great shape.
Our receivables are in great shape but I think our payables were favorably impacted by timing of some payments year-over-year.
So I think that our payables the accounts payable will be lower next year which will raise the working capital backup into that our more near-term target of about 10% of sales.
So I think the 13% is nice and I think it was just because of the timing of payments.
I think youre going to see us going back in that 10% to 11% of sales in the future.
Great.
Nice quarter guys.
Thanks for all the detail.
Thanks Scott.
Thanks Scott.
Hi.
Thanks.
I had a couple hopefully housekeeping follow-ups it sounds like - do you give a number for what raws were down in 2015 and love that and also buyback is or isnt in the guidance for EPS? On the raw material question Greg.
We said that for the full year over 2014 raw materials would be down in the mid-single digits.
In the back half we mentioned the fact it was trending a little higher than that or at the high-end of mid-single digits just due to the trajectory of materials over the course of the year.
And it sounds like given what Sean said that probably finish that the high-end so maybe down 6% or 7% the higher end of mid-single digits? For the second half.
Its over 2015.
We could that raws were down at high-end of mid-single digit.
Now for the full year youd be in the mid singles.
Youd still be in the singles but more in the back half.
Got it.
Yes.
And then on the buyback and EPS? We definitely have in our guidance some buybacks.
We did not have any cash were not holding any cash in our guidance for the end of the year.
Okay.
Great.
And then really I want to ask business it looks like that fourth quarter demand trend nice improvement with the comp.
What was the volume comp when you packed out mix and what accounted for the acceleration if you think about it versus second and third quarter was it architectural was it maybe some of the other weaker businesses not being as weak? It was largely the architectural Greg and if you look at what weve seen there clearly its an improvement in third quarter over fourth quarter and we continue to be excited and encouraged by the comments were hearing from many of our customers.
Our home builders that saw a more mild weather which enabled them to catch up on some of the lost work days that were previously an issue.
Theres just a momentum there that we are working hard to make sure we capture more than our share.
And if you look ahead on the commercial side do you think the backlog there looks like acceleration as well? The nonresidential side didnt slowdown in 2015 to 2014.
What we feel as an absolute number it was still a good performance.
Our relationship in this business as we look at the large commercial contractors and how we are positioned there we feel really good that with the market well grow well beyond behind what the market trends will grow.
Weve got a very good position here.
We work hard on every aspect from product specifications color and we expect to get again quite a bit of that share as we grow into 2016.
The other issue to keep in mind on the non-res new side is that there is a long lag between starts and paints in that market so starts were strong in 2014 and just down slightly in 2015 so that bodes pretty well for painting on new construction new nonresidential construction in 2016.
So if you look at residential repaint we been experiencing double-digit gains here for quite some time weve got good momentum there good position in the commercial side and we expect as Bob mentioned that that pipeline is going to work in our direction.
Thats great.
Thanks a lot and good luck.
Thanks Greg.
Hi.
Good morning and thanks for taking my question.
I believe you said that paint volume in the stores group was greater than revenues and revenue growth that is and so given your estimation of 3% or 4% overall growth for the paint gallons it suggests that you are probably taking share.
How would you characterize those share gains? Are you actually seeing competitors close down or you just somehow that their growth is  there are not opening stores as fast as you are? And then finally are you actually seeing any distributors kind of leave the business.
Independent distributors? Well.
There are stores that close.
It really varies by market.
Its a very fragmented market and we compete with local competitors so each market is bit different and we often say inside our four walls that we dont discriminate by where we will grow our share.
Some of them will be larger competitors and some of them might be smaller but our teams locally are focused on their customers that offer opportunity and it may be in any channel that they see those opportunities but they are really focused on growing and were winning.
We feel pretty good about the pace in which we are winning.
The other thing I would point out we didnt commented on over the last couple of years weve done very well with international accounts since the recession as a consolidated supplier base we are the only paint supplier that has a truly national footprint of contractor friendly outlets so that helped us a lot in that arena.
Got it.
And then where are you in terms of your capacity to supply the market? Do you anticipate youll need to expand capacity in the next two to three years or its maybe five years out? I think that the when we take a look at the capacity I think our manufacturing footprint has been expanded each and every year from efficiencies.
Weve taken a look at our capacity utilization.
were in nice shape.
We went through a nice growth here we did an integration of Comex.
We might see down the road five years where we might have to do some type of major expansion on our plant but in the short term here we dont have a game plan to open a new plant.
The teams are doing a really nice job as Sean mentioned in some of those investments might be on our billing line or something like that but weve got a team thats got a mindset of continuous improvement and they are working hard to capture additional capacity.
And then just one final one I know that stated all year some of the raw material headwinds in your Latin American coatings group is there any opportunity to change sourcings that you dont have going forward.
I tell you why.
What happens with most of the major raw materials.
So 87% of raw materials where purchasing down there.
Our purchase spend U.S.
dollar so when the raws go down mid-single-digit I will say five and then currencies fluctuates losses 25% to 30% such as in Brazil.
your raws on a local basis are going to go up.
Thats really the big driver not sitting here saying can we go from one supplier to another.
Got it.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Nils.
Good afternoon everyone.
Hi.
Chuck.
Tomorrow afternoon.
First John can you talk about where pricing might go in the Paint Stores Segment in 2016? Well weve not announced the price increase and Chuck as you know many years of falling us our first communication is to our customers and then we would quickly update you as quickly as we can but right now weve not announced anything.
Should we assume that the shelf prices will at least be stable? Yes Id say thats a safe bet.
Yes.
Okay.
What about the interest rate in environment? Any comments on that about what it might be doing to end market demand specially on the architectural side residential architectural side? I think Chuck.
Youve seen a lot of projects.
Its seems like people are still investing the markets are open.
The interest rates are low but were watching the starts and so forth.
I think it really comes down to if they can utilize these assets they are investing in them.
Now what are you referring to Sean when you say utilizing assets? Whether its commercial or people building multi-family dwellings and so forth thats what Im talking about.
And then a question based on something you mentioned earlier the call you were integrating general paint in Canada could you provide a little detail about that? Will that banner go away? Much like we did with every past acquisition that weve done with every past acquisition we look at the customer base and the customer dictates to us the pace in which we move the Sherwin-Williams brand is the ultimate brand that we end up with.
Some of these products then end up a sub brand inside our Sherwin-Williams stores.
We are able to leverage the advertising and the communications that we have that promote the Sherwin-Williams brand once they become a Sherwin-Williams banner store.
And so we move in that direction but we move at the pace that we are able to get through the tunnel and in short when we get to the other side that we have our customers with us.
And then in the guidance it sounds like Latin America Sean you guys are being very cautious on everything from currency to the regional economies.
Is there anything else that we should think about in terms of the Latin America segment? No.
I think you hit on them.
I think that the basic business is again we're watching it.
We have not forecast the Brazil is going to be robust economy next year Argentina will be.
I think we'll see what happens in Chile.
Mexico seems to be doing fine but I think when you look at some of these areas.
There is a reason why the currency continues to devalue and I don't see Brazil being a positive this year.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thanks [indiscernible] Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Rosemarie Morbelli with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you for taking my question after the timeframe just for me John when you talk about being  Comex being at the bottom of the eighth inning whatever that means.
Does that mean you are done about three quarters done in terms of the integration of what you want to do? Rosemarie this is John.
Because I was trying to make the point that John came back and said that on the operational side on the admin side on the systems side the integration of raw materials and so forth.
I would tell you we've completed that.
Where the pieces that haven't been completed is what John said about the general paints and different pieces there.
But inside United States I would say all the operational and the reason I said bottom of the eighth is to referred that some of the incremental gains we expected were brought forward into 2015 and that's what I was referring to is the EPS gains.
Right.
And so those improvements are now part of our everyday operations.
We've taken those facilities out of the supply chain and now we're running those volumes through our existing plants and the additional point that I was making Rosemarie was that now our focus become how do we get the most throughput on each of those stores? Some that had transitioned earlier and some that were in the process now but now that they've been  many of them been converted to Sherwin stores our opportunity to grow our sales in many segments that they weren't selling in the past become the opportunity moving forward.
Thank you.
That is helpful.
And still in the Consumer Group last year you were building the channel at Lowe's so as the margin benefited from strong volume.
Are we to expect a slightly lower volume because now it is really repurchasing a selling at the channel? I would say yes because 100% of the architectural paint we've sold to Lowe's last year was incremental.
So and the other reason at our core we  that's definitely was 100% incremental this year.
Last year in 2015 and 2016 will not be.
So how much do you think it will cost you about 100 basis points or could be impact of the lower volume being higher than that? You know what we will see but it's definitely going to  it will definitely be a reduction.
Okay thanks.
And on the Ti02 the producers have been announcing several price increases they all seem to be getting their act together.
Are you taking it or in part of your comments about the fact that now it's the bottom meaning a low floor or a beginning of price increases on the Ti02.
Yes Rosemarie.
We often comment that these pricing cycles in Ti02 typically begin with pricing below $1 a pound.
Oftentimes peak above $2 a pound and then settle back on the back end of the cycle below $1 a point again.
We're hovering just above $1 a pound.
And we realize that there's been price increase announcements in the market.
Ultimately the balance of supply and demand in the market will determine whether those increases our successful and we'll see but it feels like we are approaching the bottom on the downside of this cycle.
Okay.
And you find that the supply demand is getting I mean could it be balance by the end of this year or that is too early and we need another couple of years.
I think it's too early.
It really depends on demand growth.
Demand growth outside of North America has been very weak.
Okay.
And lastly if I may could you bring us up-to-date on some of the press releases that you have published saying that you are working with Lowe's towards introducing other product lines.
Can you give us a feel of what that is and then tell us how the antibacterial is doing? I know it's early but.
Let me start with your question on the  on our product paint seal it's exciting new technology for us.
It's the first EPA registered paint that kills 99% of these five specific infection causing bacteria that have been exposed for two hours and there's nothing like it in the market nothing.
And so we're excited about it.
It actually lands and it begins to sell in our stores beginning February 1.
So you are right.
It is little bit early.
We just finished up our sales meetings with our team where we've done some extensive training with our team on the product and we're really looking forward to it.
We did launch it last year and the feedback from the medical community has just been outstanding.
It's just terrific.
Were very excited about it.
So we're looking forward to a good year with the product.
That is in the new category [indiscernible] Were not in a position to talk to anything like new categories or new products.
I think thats important that we respect our customers position and anything that they might be launching we think should be coming from them.
Okay thats fair.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Rosemarie.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Ivan Marcuse with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your questions.
Hi thanks.
Just a real quick question in terms of 2015 the way I understand mix was a bit of a drag in terms of higher commercial volumes and lower protective and marine.
2016 within your sales guidance is mix do we lapped that mix become sort of de-minimis or is that still a bit of an issue as commercial continues to grow and in the fact that continues to be a bit of a drag? I think that it's going to be smaller than it was this year but it still will be somewhat of a drag.
Great thanks.
Thanks Ivan.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Jay McCanless Sterne Agee.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Jay.
I've heard you all make some comments about SG&amp;A but did you provide formal guidance on what we should expect for SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales for 2016? No.
We're basically giving you sales and EPS guidance.
We didn't go down the factors of that.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
Thanks Jay.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Good morning Eric.
The store comp in 2015 moved around more than we're used to seeing from an 8 or 9 to a 2 and now back to a 5.
The question in terms of 2016 the factors that moved it around during 2015 can you just remind us of what those were and then how you think about that as it relates to 2016? Yes I think that one of the first thing and as John said that you wont repeat it.
We usually did not talk about weather but weather did impact that second and third and I believe the fourth quarter.
We had some nice weather and I think that homebuilders have said that they caught up more than they thought they were going to in the fourth quarter and I think that's probably a very accurate statement.
And I think that we're not expecting we probably expecting a little more normal in that area.
I would say that's probably the big driver.
The second one is probably the labor and how the labor was working and I think John's comment earlier that our customers seem to feel that they are in a better situation with labor going into 2016 than 2015.
So I know you don't guide on a segment basis but when you go through that it sounds like if more normal weather and more normal labor that I guess and your guidance wouldn't seem to imply that we're going back to 8s or 9s in the stores group.
And so in terms of again the difference between what you are guiding in 2016 and the days of the 8s again what's the difference? I would just say market.
And if you go back five years price too.
Price in a lot of those years.
Yes.
And as long as raw materials are benign you are unlikely to see a lot of price.
Yes.
Very good.
Thank you.
Thanks Eric.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Dmitry Silversteyn with Longbow Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Well now for sure good afternoon gentlemen.
Very much for being so accommodating just a couple clarifications on the fourth quarter just make sure I understand the direction that the business is going.
It sound like a Latin America you saw a little bit faster volume declines.
And I mean you complain about volumes being down offset by a higher pricing for a few quarters.
But it looks like it was sort of way down in the fourth quarter.
Is that sort of the pace of that we should expect to see there in 2016 in other words kind of a mid-single digit decline in organic growth of volume plus price? I will just tell you right now Demetri you are right.
We dont break this out.
We didn't see that dramatic of the difference between the fourth quarter and the other quarters in the year.
By country you saw different things go back and forth.
I would say it was the dramatic change in the Brazilian real and some of these things that hit us harder than what we thought they were going to be in the fourth quarter.
And when you sit there and take a look at that we have to get some price back back to the comments about where we are.
So I think things are from when you sit down and look at that gallon number and the sales number I think it had more to do with FX than it did for business.
Yes I would say that the one area that we clearly felt an impact Dmitry was in that oil and gas and mining operations.
We have a very good presence there and there's a lot of pressure there.
Got you got you okay.
Just question book keeping question for Sean the tax rate expectations for 2016 about 32% same as 2015.
Yes.
I think that  we've been in that range for probably 8 years to 10 years.
And I could see us staying in that range.
Okay very good.
And then just on sort of the incremental margin and I know it's not the right way calculating.
But I mean you've delivered like a 73% incremental margin in paint stores if you look at the change in revenue versus the change in profit dollars and as in the EBIT line and about 55% in the Consumer Group.
Would lead me believe that a lot of your raw material benefit happened in the fourth quarter because I don't think your incremental margin really is that high is that the right way to think about that? Yes because if you think only about fourth quarter gross margin it really came down to two things.
Gross margin in SG&amp;A and gross margin definitely had the larger impact in that SG&amp;A.
But don't discount that what we've been talking about with this Comex integration.
I think that when you think about the expenses that were admin expenses those kind of expenses we basically now at a nice run rate for all the different systems and admin expenses for Comex.
Got it.
One final question just on new store growth you keep guiding to sort of the 100 stores a year or so.
You get close in 2014 at about 95 you only get 3 this year.
So what's holding you back from getting to that 100? Is it finding the right locations or some constraints on personal or sort of how should we think about your not exceeding 100 stores if you have 100 stores as a yearly average.
It really does come down to a level of comfort that we have with the expansion and making sure that we have the human talent to be able to deliver on our promise.
And so as we add the stores incrementally important if you will to have the right people at the right level to be able to deliver on every brand promise that we make.
And we just feel that 85 to 100 range is the right range and you're going to see that fluctuate sometimes it just in the timing of when they are going to hit.
You might have a heavier first quarter or heavier fourth quarter but that's a range that we just feel comfortable with.
Okay fair enough.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Dmitry.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Christopher Perrella with Bloomberg Intelligence.
Please proceed with your question.
Good afternoon.
Thank you for taking my call.
A real quick one are you still taking 1% to 2% of Ti02 out of the formulations per annum or have you sort of had a technical limit with reductions.
Yes.
I think there's a lot of discussion about the formulation a couple years ago and the reaction for the rapid rise in titanium dioxide.
But we said then that a lot of our formulation for depending contractor.
And we know that 1% to 2% was put up there by some of the competitors we have and we said that we're pretty careful not to change the formulas of these were of courses in the products.
Yes I like to make sure.
Were very clear on that.
The consistent for our product to our customers we describe at this way the closer than close enough for our customers.
So we have had the opportunity to formulate for robustness that might modify the amount of Ti02 but the quality of our product is something that we will never ever put at risk.
I mean the customers that come to buy our products are expecting a consistent product.
Ti02 is a important part of that and the formulations that we've been able to help maximize the productivity by formulations is not at the cost of just simply removing Ti02 and having product that's going to perform differently.
All right.
Thank you guys.
Appreciate it.
Thanks Chris.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of David Wong with Morningstar.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys thanks for taking my question.
With the decline of raw materials in mid-single digit last year presumably your competitors also benefited from that have you started to feel any competitive pressures from your customers savings.
We typically see the pressure on large bid projects and that's typically been the same for as long as I've been in the industry of 31 years.
And while the average pricing might tick down slightly the margins are not.
And so we worked very hard to ensure that we remain competitive on those large projects.
It's a relatively small percentage of our total sales.
They are good projects.
They are often times they are important projects to us and so we work to keep those projects Sherwin-Williams.
Great.
And you guys said res repaint double-digits with DIY little bit slower how did new res fair for you guys.
New res was a good performer for us.
It was slightly behind res repaint but it performed well for us.
Weve got have a very good relationship with many of the home builders in the marketplace and we have products that perform specifically for their needs.
As well as what Bob mentioned we've got a distribution platform that allows us to make commitments across the country and be responsive to their needs.
Great thank you.
Thanks David.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thanks very much.
Hi Jeff.
Do you think that the weakness in oil and gas and in the southern and southwestern domestic economies is lowering your paint store volume growth rate by a pointer to and in general are Global Finishes volumes growing? Do you expect them to grow in the first half of 2016 and do you feel any slowing in domestic economy or in the global economy? I will take the Global Finishes first.
We had a positive accounts in the Global Finishes North America was our strongest continent by far in total those were fine.
When we look at  We don't break this out but I would tell you that I think your first question about when you have so many stores you got to be careful but it does appear that some of the weakness is starting is starting to affect some of the store sales in pockets.
You go out to West Texas or some of these other places Oklahoma.
I think we're starting to see it Jeff.
Yes.
And then  go ahead Im sorry.
Well I was going to say were starting to feel it in areas and yet construction in Texas in many parts of the states are still hanging on so it's a bit of a mixed bag.
It offers opportunities.
We are seeking them out.
So domestic retail sales have slowed in the U.S.
does you feel that or when you look at your order pattern or what your organization says does it feel like the U.S.
is slowing down a little bit but that's not something you detect? When you take a look for us and I'll go to the store side the store side it's 85% painting contractors.
The retail side is pretty  when you segment the retail youll look at the people that we're selling in our retail stores I think we have probably not felt that it as strong as probably others.
On the Lowe's side as I mentioned to a prior question is result incremental for us.
We probably have a better picture down the road for you but I don't think we should be  I dont think we are the indicator for you.
And Jeff a lot of the survey work I've read has indicated that home-improvement have actually held up better as a retail category than retail in general.
So I think there has been an impact on home-improvement but it's been less than on other retail categories.
Okay great.
Thanks so much.
Thanks Jeff.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Richard O'Reilly with Revere Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Okay.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Thank you gentlemen.
Hi Richard.
Ive got two questions.
One I wanted to follow up on the finishes group.
You just said you had positive volumes.
Now oil and gas Protective and Marine were down what areas were up for you? We also have finish in their.
We have some other businesses but I don't know if we want to cut it down to that kind of segment inside that Global Finishes Group.
Okay you did have positive volume growth in 2015.
Yes.
Okay.
Second I want to follow-up on the raw materials your first question you said your projection of down mid-single digit seems conservative.
And I know you talked about the Ti02 but propylene is down 50% in a year or so so can you talk about the basket of your inputs and maybe give us an idea of why it's only down in mid-single digits.
You understand that.
Richard actually a mid-single-digit decline is a pretty significant decline across the entire basket.
We spent a lot of time talking about Ti02 in the latex and Resin side of the basket which granted is the lion's share of our raw material basket by value but there are also categories of packaging and specialty chemicals that maybe moving the opposite direction.
And offset the deflation in Ti02 and resins and latex to some degree.
The other thing I would caution you want is assuming that Resin and latex pricing is tracking in line with propylene or with crude oil a lot of times because these are specialty formulas they are often times owned and controlled by our supplier.
That gives them some measure of pricing power in the short-term.
The Resin that you use in a particular paint formula has a very significant impact on the performance of the end product and they're not interchangeable parts.
If the supplier wants to hold on to some of the benefit of lower cost propylene for a period of time in the long run we believe we'll get the benefit but the benefit tends to come to market slower than in the commodity category like Ti02.
Okay good.
Thank you for that answer.
I appreciate it.
Thats it.
Thanks Richard.
Thank you.
It appears we have no further questions at this time.
So I'd like to turn the fall back over to Mr.
Wells for any additional concluding comments.
Thanks again Jessy.
I'll conclude the call this morning by asking you to save the date of Thursday May 26 on your calendars.
That's the day we'll host our annual financial community presentation at our headquarters in Cleveland.
The program will consist of our customary mourning presentations by management with a Q&amp;A session followed by reception and lunch and then will also be some special program options offered in the afternoon to help commemorate our 150th year history.
Again that date is Thursday May 26 and we will be sending out invitations and related information and a link to our registration website in late March.
So please watch your e-mail.
As usual I'll be available over the balance of the day in the coming days to answer any remaining questions.
Thanks for joining us today and thank you for your continued interest in Sherwin-Williams.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!