Good morning and welcome to The J.
M.
Smucker Company’s first quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all participants are in a listen-only mode.
At the request of the company we will open the conference up for questions and answers after the presentation.
Please limit yourself to two initial questions during the Q&amp;A session and re-queue if you have additional questions.
I will now like to turn the conference over to the Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Mark Belgya.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our first quarter earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us.
On the call from the company are Tim Smucker Chairman of the Board and Co-CEO; Richard Smucker Executive Chairman and Co-CEO; Vince Byrd President of our Coffee Business; Steve Oakland President of Smucker’s Jif and Hungry Jack; Mark Smucker President of our Special Markets; and Paul Wagstaff President of Oils and Baking.
After this brief introduction I will turn the call over to Richard for opening comments.
I will then review the financial results for the quarter and Tim will provide closing remarks.
At the conclusion of these comments we will be available to answer your questions.
If you have not seen our press release it is available on our Website at smuckers.com.
A replay of this call is available on the Website.
If you have any follow-up questions or comments after today’s call please feel free to contact me or Sonal Robinson Vice President of Investor Relations.
I would like to remind you that in both the prepared comments and during the question-and-answer period that follows we may make forward-looking statements that reflect the company’s current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates and actual results may differ materially due to risks and uncertainties.
I invite you to read the full disclosure statement in the press release concerning such forward-looking statements.
I also want to point out that company uses non-GAAP results for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.
Additional discussion on non-GAAP information is also detailed in our press release and on our Website.
I’ll now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Mark.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Let me begin by reviewing our results for the quarter which continued our consistent and positive trends.
First our sales for the quarter were comparable to last year.
Several key categories realized volume growth including Coffee and Peanut Butter which contributed to a favorable sales mix.
Second Coffee our largest segment had a solid quarter and came in stronger than we originally expected during our year-end call.
Third non-GAAP earnings increased for the quarter with earnings per share up 13% led by increases in operating profit and reductions in our effective income tax rate.
Fourth our continued investment in the brand new product offerings the pricing actions taken to date and our planned promotional activities have positioned us well for the back-to-school and fall big holiday periods.
And finally the significant investments we are making in our business including the project to streamline our coffee and fruit spread supply chain will allow us to continue delivering long-term growth and shareholder value.
Our quarter results occurred during a challenging economic environment demonstrating the strength of our brand and the importance of a consistent focus on our strategy.
Our focus is long-term yet we have a culture where teams adapt quickly and adjust tactics as necessary.
While aggressive pricing can be seen in a number of the categories in which we participate we will respond rationally and with a long-term view of the health of our brand and our categories.
Now let me provide some commentary on each of our four business segments.
In our Coffee segment sales were up over a very strong first quarter last year and momentum in this business continues.
We are supporting the coffee brands with all elements of marketing including advertising consumer promotions and public relations.
Seven new commercials will air this year including advertisements supporting Dunkin’ Donuts Coffee Folgers Black Silk and the recently re-launched Folgers Special Roast.
Our K-Cups offerings continued to meet with great customer acceptance and will be in stores in the second quarter.
Folgers Gourmet Selections and Millstone K-Cups will be supported by a strong marketing program including advertising.
Dunkin’ Turbo Coffee which launched late last year continues to gain distribution increasing to a 12-week ACV of 55% and the new Dunkin’ Donuts seasonal items are on track to be launched this fall.
Finally as previously announced in response to Green Coffee cost which reached a 12-year historical high during the quarter we took a price increase averaging 9% earlier this month on most of our U.S.
retail coffee products.
Turning to our Consumer segment net sales and volume were essentially even with last year excluding divestitures.
It is important to note that we achieved these results despite strong performance last year.
Also certain key promotional activities that occurred in the first quarter of the prior year have been shifted to later quarters this year.
In the Peanut Butter category we will be airing new advertising to support the relaunch of Jif To Go.
Also consistent with our ongoing focus on price transparency we took a 5% price decrease on our peanut butter products in the first quarter reflecting a decline in peanut costs.
In the Fruit Spreads category we continue to invest in our brands as news commercials continuing the classic voice campaign will be aired during the upcoming key promotional periods.
We also continue to see momentum in the Smucker’s Orchard’s Finest premium fruit spreads products which were launched on a national basis.
The national rollout of Smucker’s Snack’n Waffles in retail continues to provide us an exciting handheld platform.
All of these actions position us well for the back-to-school period.
In our Oils and Baking segment aggressive pricing by competitors negatively impacted both sales and volume for the Crisco and Pillsbury brands.
Planned rationalization of lower margin products also contributed to the decrease for Pillsbury.
We recently announced a list price decrease for our oils business to narrow the price gap on shelf and to provide the consumer with a lower everyday price for our Crisco products.
We continue to focus on product innovation and providing consumers with more options for our Pillsbury brand.
Our recent launch of sugar-free cake mix and frosting has been met with good customer acceptance.
In addition we will continue to offer new varieties of Pillsbury products including the upcoming launch of seasonal items with a Halloween theme.
This combination of new products merchandising programs and narrowing the price gap in oils gives us comfort as we enter the fall day period.
In the Special Markets segment value was up slightly led by the natural foods and export businesses.
This increase was partially offset by volume decline in Canada.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange sales were down 3% due primarily to price decreases and the timing of promotional spending.
In summary we delivered a solid quarter and a good start to the fiscal year.
Our successful performance continues to reflect a culture where our employees understand our vision and our strategy and consistently execute.
I would now like to turn the call back to Mark to have him review the financial results for the quarter.
Thank you Richard.
Overall net sales for the quarter were equal with last year.
Increases in the U.S.
Retail Coffee segment were mostly offset by declines in U.S.
Retail Oils and Baking and the impact of the divestiture of our potato business.
Favorable sales mix and foreign exchange were positive contributors helping offset a 3% decrease in volumes driven by declines in the oils and baking categories in the U.S.
and Canada.
Pricing action initiated during the quarter did not have a material impact on the results.
Also included in last year’s results were approximately $3.5 million in industrial fruit sales that are no longer categorized as revenue.
GAAP earnings per share were $0.86 this quarter compared to $0.83 in the first quarter of last year including charges related to restructuring and merger and integration activity.
Total charges were up this year reflecting costs associated with the restructuring project announced earlier this calendar year.
Excluding these charges earnings per share were $1.04 this quarter and $0.92 in last year’s first quarter an increase of 13%.
The quarter results benefited from a lower tax rate when compared to the prior year.
Gross profit excluding charges increased $12 million to 39.9% of net sales from 38.6% last year.
Included in gross profit were unrealized mark-to-market gains on commodity contracts of approximately $7 million.
Gross profit benefited from a favorable sales mix as a larger percentage of total sales came from the coffee peanut butter and fruit spread categories which generate higher gross margins.
The impact of raw material cost was mixed as higher green coffee costs were offset by lower costs for peanuts and certain fruits.
Most of the gains in gross profit flowed to operating income as the SG&amp;A expenses were up 1% compared to prior year and increased as a percent of net sales from 19.1% to 19.4%.
Overall operating income excluding charges increased $10 million for the quarter and improved as a percent of net sales from 17.6% to 18.7%.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 31.3% compared to 35.2% in last year’s first quarter.
The lower rate in the current year reflects benefits realized from an increased deduction relating to the U.S.
manufacturing activities along with lower state income taxes and a favorable federal income tax determination related to a prior year.
We anticipate a full-year effective tax rate between 32% and 33%.
Let me now provide details on our segment.
As a reminder although our four reportable segments have not changed we have modified the calculation of segment profit to better reflect the decisions of segment management with the corresponding financial results most notably in the area of intangibles.
We issued a Form 8-K last week providing the quarterly segment profits for fiscal 2009 and 2010 under this new calculation.
In the U.S.
retail coffee segment net sales increased 7% primarily as a result of volume gain.
Growth in the Folgers brand along with continued double-digit growth in the Dunkin’ Donuts brand resulted in an overall coffee volume increase of 5%.
This increase is on top of a 9% volume gain in last year’s first quarter.
Coffee segment profit increased 1% due to volume gains and a price increase offsetting higher green coffee costs.
Segment margins were 30.4% in the prior year compared to 28.4% in the current year reflecting the higher green coffee costs.
In our U.S.
Retail Consumer segment reported sales were down 4% while volume declined 3%.
Excluding the divested potato business net sales and volumes were essentially flat when compared to a strong first quarter in the prior year as volume gains in Jif peanut butter Smucker’s Snack’n Waffles and Hungry Jack pancake mixes and syrups were offset by declines in toppings.
As Richard mentioned certain promotions have been moved to later in the year resulting in a slight volume decline in fruit spreads for this quarter.
Segment profit increased 8% mainly due to lower raw material costs improved profitability related to Smucker’s Uncrustables and favorable product mix.
These were partially offset by additional investments in segment marketing.
Segment margin improved nearly 300 basis points from 22.7% in last year’s first quarter to 25.6% this year.
The divestiture of the low-margin potato business also contributed to the margin improvement.
In the U.S.
Retail Oils and Baking segment net sales and volume for the quarter declined 11% and 12% respectively as the competitive and promotional environment experienced in the oils and baking category at the end of last fiscal year continued.
The planned rationalization of certain low-margin baking products also contributed to the sales decline.
Segment profit in the quarter decreased 12% and profit margin declined by 20 basis points.
The decrease in segment profit was primarily driven by lower net sales and higher production costs partially offset by the favorable impact of unrealized mark-to-market adjustments on commodity contracts.
Sales in the Special Markets segment were flat.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange sales declined 3% primarily driven by price decreases and the timing of promotional spending.
Volume increased 1% as gains in natural foods and milk condiments and coffee were partially offset by declines in flour oils food service and portion control.
Margins in the Special Markets segment increased from 13.4% to 17.4% as a result of favorable sales mix lower supply chain costs and the positive impact of unrealized mark-to-market adjustments.
EBITDA excluding restructuring and merger and integration costs was $248 million for the quarter or 23.7% of net sales compared to $233 million or 22.2% of net sales last year.
Based on first quarter results we are tracking towards our guidance of full-year EBITDA approaching $1.1 billion excluding charges.
Let me conclude my remarks with comments on cash flow.
Cash used by operations was $27 million in the first quarter of 2011 compared to a use of $26 million last year.
As a reminder we expect a significant use of cash for working capital during the first half of each fiscal year for seasonal fruit procurement the build-up of inventory in advances of fall bake and holiday season and the additional build-up of coffee inventory in advance of the Atlantic hurricane period.
We expect the generation of cash to accelerate in the second half of the year as we complete our key seasonal periods.
Capital expenditures are still expected to approximate $235 million despite only $27 million in the first quarter.
As we previously stated we expected use of cash this year of approximately $95 million for capital expenditures related to the coffee fruit spreads restructuring project.
This will primarily occur in the second half of the year.
Finally cash charges of $35 million to $40 million related to our restructuring project are expected for the year.
I’d now like to turn the call over to Tim.
Thank you Mark and good morning everyone.
As we’ve stated over the years we believe our strategy of owning leading brands in North America is a solid well-understood strategy.
It is one which has provided us the framework to achieve our growth objectives.
We believe in running our company with a long-term perspective.
As an organization we remain committed to investing in our brands and continuous improvement in our operational practices and cost structure.
In March we announced the largest capital investment in our history to streamline our coffee and fruit spreads supply chain.
The estimated expenditures annual savings and overall timeline related to the project remain on track.
We plan to break ground on our new manufacturing facility in Orrville later this fall and are actively working to expand our coffee capacity in New Orleans.
We are currently in the key back-to-school period.
We have solid programs in place supporting our fruit spreads peanut butter and Smucker’s Uncrustables sandwiches and are anticipating a strong finish to the season during the second quarter.
We are encouraged by our first quarter performance and remain confident about the remainder of the year.
For fiscal 2011 we anticipate an increase in net sales slightly ahead of the 3% growth indicated in our original outlook due primarily to the impact of recent pricing actions.
We continue to expect non-GAAP income for diluted share to be in the range of $4.50 to $4.60 including amortization expense of approximately $0.40 per share.
We are also maintaining our outlook on various cash flow items that we provided last quarter including depreciation amortization and capital expenditures.
As we look forward we feel positive regarding the plans we have in place and the tactical measures we have implemented.
Due to our hedged coffee position relative to price we would anticipate strong results in the second quarter.
However we have held to our original guidance range for the year.
We believe this is prudent as we monitor competitive activity and consumer response to our pricing actions.
We will be in a better position to adjust guidance if appropriate following the next quarter.
At that time we will have completed our back-to-school period and be in our fall bake and holiday season.
In summary; first we had another strong quarter; second we will continue to adapt our tactics to ensure we are well positioned for the current environment but our focus will not waver from our strategy and our long-term health of our brands; third we feel confident in our ability to deliver on the earnings guidance provided; fourth we continue to invest in our business and our brands through marketing and product innovation; and finally we want to thank our dedicated employees for their continued commitment to our culture and doing the right things and doing things right.
Thank you for your time today and now we’re happy to answer any of your questions.
(Operator instructions).
And we’ll first hear from Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Eric.
Okay.
I guess my first question has more specifically to do with the coffee business to the extent that the input has gone up a lot you’ve taken pricing.
Have your major competitors followed on that price increase? And are you seeing any loss probably it’s pretty difficult because you are kind of small in the single serve are you seeing any kind of elasticity either with single serve or with maybe some trading away from Dunkin to lower cost Folgers? Good morning they have a press release in regard to the resulting impact of that.
The pricing is now just I’ll say being reflected on shelf in terms of the everyday price in both cases.
The key that we’ll be watching during the second quarter and third quarter though are the price points during the key merchandising periods.
In terms of pricing elasticity and volume impact obviously we run models like everybody else does but it really will depend upon the price points that the products are being merchandised.
And I think it’s fair to say that our team will be monitoring those very very closely and we will respond where we need to in a responsible manner.
And in terms of single serve I would say that we haven’t seen any movement away from that to this particular point.
That category continues to grow very very significantly and we really haven’t seen much trading off from gourmet at this point.
The gourmet segment continues to show nice growth including our Duncan brand which was up about 15% in the quarter.
Okay thanks for that.
And then I guess follow-up maybe a broader question for Tim or Richard.
There is a lot questions about the government’s approach to the tax policy on dividends.
You have a lot of cash a very strong balance sheet.
I guess the assumption has been that you are going to be purchasing a lot of stock.
Is there any kind of thought to changes in kind of given what if rates go up on dividends is there any change that you would think of in terms of how you would use the cash flow to give back to shareholders? Eric this is Richard.
When we look at our capital structure frequently and we do take into consideration the government policies so that isn’t a subject that we haven’t talked about.
We have talked about it but we haven’t made any decisions at this point and our plan would be to whatever we do would be the right thing for the shareholders’ value long-term whether that’s something changed in the dividend policy or buyback of stock which you know we will be able to do after November that’s a two-year time period.
So we will look at all of those things but we haven’t made a decision yet.
Okay.
I’ll pass it on and get back in queue.
Thank you.
Our next question will from Alexia Howard of Sanford Bernstein.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
I just wanted to focus a little a bit on the retail oils and baking sector.
Looks as though the volumes were down fairly heftily double digits and pricing was pretty flat.
I am sure you’ve got the promotional dynamic in there.
Were the volumes down mainly due to competitor activity? And if so would that promotional activity funded by retail as all the competitors and are you seeing any relief on that in the last month or so? Hi Alexia this is Paul Wagstaff.
And first thing just want to state the obvious the oils and baking team wasn’t happy with the results for the first quarter.
Clearly we want to do better.
That being said our long-term strategy we still feel is accurate.
We think it’s good and again we managed the total oils and baking category as a whole on the long-term.
From a volume perspective on the oils side we did see significant competitive pressure in the category and we do see that that was a main driver of why we had lower volume.
On the baking side we also had some significant competitive pressure but there was also some planned declines in some of our lower margin items.
We discontinued some items for example in flour which is a very heavy item so big volume.
We had some planned declines there.
As far as going forward we would anticipate it to be continuing from a competitive standpoint but we feel we have pretty good plans in place to address that.
Great did you get any benefit or any significant benefit to volume this quarter from the shipment of the K-Cups this quarter that I know that are really going to hit next quarter? And if so how material was that volume benefit? There were no K-Cups shipped in the first quarter and that will all begin in fact within a week or so.
So there was no volume as it related to that.
I would like to go back to your previous question that you asked all about the funding I think it’s fair to say from a macro perspective there was a lot of disruptive pricing that occurred during the quarter and I think the answer to your question is that’s being funded by both competitors and retailers.
It’s just not one or the other.
Great thank you very much.
I will pass it on.
Ian Zaffino of Oppenheimer.
Great thank you.
Just more of a theoretical question here.
Now that you have – I think you’ve done a great job in coffee and I think that you’ve really kind of established yourself as a great brand there.
Is there an opportunity for you to kind of move away from the old Procter &amp; Gamble pricing ways the way you’ve trained the channel to look at green coffee and expect an increase or decrease depending on where it goes? In that is there an opportunity to raise prices above and beyond what green coffee might go up and if it goes down maybe being able to hold pricing and hold margins? Thanks.
Well I guess I would answer to some degree we have already moved away from previous practices primarily because of the way it’s managed from an inventory LIFO/FIFO perspective we tend to be a little bit longer.
But I think it’s true to our fundamentals that we are always transparent with our pricing with our customers.
And this isn’t about margining up or margining down.
It’s about taking it when we feel we need to that reflect those costs to accomplish our overall margin objectives or thought objectives for that fiscal year.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks.
That’s really my only question.
Jane Gelfand of Barclays Capital.
Good morning.
Just a question on how you are feeling about how the first quarter panned out versus how you are seeing the fall bake merchandising sort of getting set.
You talked just two months ago about this being sort of a new normal and among the most toughest environments that you seen in your long career.
So I guess now you should have a little bit more visibility given the merchandising that is ahead of time for fall bake.
Do you see like the first quarter was the toughest quarter that you’d expect from a promotional standpoint this year or is fall bake going to be just as competitive and potentially as volatile? Hi this is Paul Wagstaff.
From an oils and baking perspective obviously we’ve had some significant competitive activities since the fourth quarter of last year in my area.
And I would say that we would see some of that continuing to the fall bake time period.
That being said we want to be competitive and we’ve taken a price decline in our oils business to address some of this gaps on pricing on shelf and we think that’s going to help address the issue going through fall bake.
This is Richard.
Just from an overall standpoint for the industry there is no doubt about it.
Everybody is trying to gain customers and there’s probably more promotional activity than we’ve seen historically.
We see that continuing.
And I think that’s why we say that we are willing to adjust our tactics not our strategy.
We feel very comfortable with our strategy.
But we will and have adjusted packets as we need to to adjust to the market.
But I think we’re well positioned to do that what we call responsibly so that we still deliver our results.
And so it is kind of a new normal but we think we’re well positioned for that new normal.
how does that show through on the profitability line? Last quarter we had seen very similar dynamics on the top line but clearly profit was up in the double digits.
Here it’s down this quarter.
So as we think about the impact of that price reset how do you expect that segment operating profit line to trend for the rest of the year? Well I think the key is we manage it for the full year.
And we have a lot of different budgets that we’re managing to go towards our overall fiscal year margin goal.
So I think we’re positioned pretty well to manage that.
Thanks very much.
Next we’ll hear from Ed Aaron of RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Hi Ed.
So I guess a couple on coffee.
The reported sales numbers were surprisingly strong relative to some of the external retail data that we saw during the quarter.
I know you didn’t announce the price increase until after the quarter ended but did you perhaps see any inventory load into the channel in anticipation of those higher prices? No.
This is Vince.
We clearly signed that announcement so that there would not be any forward buys in the system and I can assure you that there was no load in the quarter for that that’s a conscious decision that we made.
But I want to go back to your point about what you see in the syndicated data information.
I would say we share your concern but as we have said before those syndicated providers measure only about actually less than 50% of our total volume.
And so the real numbers are we actually grew coffee during the quarter fairly significantly 5% on units and 7% on sales.
And as you look at the syndicated information you know that that doesn’t show category growth or share growth.
I will say that we did anticipate that our major competitor was going to have a gain during this period because of the pricing where they were and in some cases as I think Ken Goldman reported they were below private label level.
So we did anticipate some share reflection but again it doesn’t reflect the bigger picture of the growth that we have had with the brand.
Okay thanks.
And then just a follow up on the earlier question about price elasticity in the category.
I mean you haven’t owned Folgers long enough for us to really study that but presumably you have a history of those numbers that goes back longer than what we can see.
Based on that longer period of history what would you kind of assume is maybe just a historical rule of thumb for how much volume would be expected to taper off relative to the magnitude of the pricing actions that you have taken? We have obviously have our models and look at that but as I’ve said earlier in my comments it really is going to determine what the key price points are of our competitors and where we feel we need to be competitive.
And so it wouldn’t be fair for me to try to quote a number at this point.
Okay thank you.
Next we’ll hear from Farha Aslam of Stephens.
Hi good morning.
Hi Farha.
On several occasions you’ve mentioned your long-term strategy but willingness to adjust tactically.
Have you gotten new tools that you can better respond to the market or is it a new strategy that you are quicker in tactical changes? And how long and can you give us some examples on those tactics? I’d like to turn it over to Steve in just a minute because he is doing a lot for back-to-school right now with Paul Wagstaff.
Most of our tactics of what we do on our promotional activity on a quarter-by-quarter basis and the levels of promotion the types of promotions that we do we also adjust advertising schedules to be at the right time.
As Paul also mentioned we have a number of buckets in terms of our marketing and promotional budgets and we will adjust those up or down as needed.
And that is as Vince mentioned also earlier in Coffee we’ll have to look at what the pricing points are during the holiday period and we will adjust and we can do that pretty quickly if we see certain customers in certain regions that we need to make promotional adjustments on.
So Steve do you want to talk or Paul? Sure.
Hi Farha for example the syndicated data doesn’t reflect the fact that we had shipments up for example in peanut butter and we’re really encouraged by that because a number of our largest customers have moved their back-to-school event into August away from July last year.
So we sort of got some dry powder there.
We got some events there and we’re far enough into August that we see those shipping.
But what we mean by that is we can stack customer specific marketing funds.
We can stack our national promotional events and we can stack our trade events frankly.
And our customers are looking for a little more bang.
When we have to do that we’re trying to avoid the deep deep discounts.
We are blessed to have a team of both national account folks we’ve got advantage nationally helping us with that.
And it just requires us to get all those things lined up and I think we’re nimble enough in the way we’re structured.
We’re able to get those things lined as quickly so the retailer feels like they can put something on their front page that’s a little louder than maybe normal.
could you talk to the Uncrustables business what’s the size of it and how the manufacturing improvements are affecting profitability of that business? Well couple things.
One thing that we didn’t catch in the script as we’re reading it Uncrustable volume is getting back to more historic growth trends and so we saw the Uncrustable business bounce back at the end of the fourth quarter and we had a robust first quarter with it.
So it’s great to see those trends back.
The whole wheat has just taken off.
Quite frankly we thought whole wheat Uncrustables would be the answer.
They’ve been slow to catch on but that’s no longer the case.
We’re making them as fast as we can.
And there is no question that a single planned footprint is much more efficient for us.
So all those things added up.
It’s growing both in food service and it’s growing in the consumer business.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Scott Mushkin of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Hi thanks.
Thanks for taking my question.
I just want to get back to Vincent your comments to Ed’s questions about coffee because it seemed like even given the activities in the alternative channels of one of your competitors it seems maybe I am wrong that you’re little surprised that your volumes were as robust as they were.
So I’m just trying to dive down in this if we look at the measured channel which does the scanner data we saw declines.
We also know what was going on at Wal-Mart which is probably another 25% to 30% of the market.
So in 80% of the market we have a pretty good idea that coffee volumes were tough.
So I’m doing the math and the other 20% has to put up numbers that are just head scratching.
So I’m trying to understand if you guys had visibility on why volumes were so good and where those volumes are going or are people just drinking a lot more coffee it’s kind of a head scratcher since Kraft talked about volumes up strong double-digits.
Sure.
I don’t know if I can add much more than I’ve said earlier.
You are correct.
We are concerned about what’s being reflected in syndicated data.
But I will say this when we knew that a major customer were going to be very very aggressive with its price points and we anticipated that we may be short on volume back to our ability to implement we went to sort of some rest of market and try to do what we could in a responsible way to make up part of that volume.
And hence we actually exceeded our expectations in the quarter given where we thought we may be in the end of the fourth quarter of last year.
So – go ahead.
Is rest of market is it traditional retail I mean where would the volume go? Well it would be everywhere but the alternative channel.
So whether you talk dollar class of trades convenience drug military on and on.
So it’s a club of all those other channels.
But there was also our grocery business actually turned out to be very very strong given our ability to change some of our tactics during the quarter.
in other words some of the negative to one we saw in the fourth quarter was reflective of what was going to happen to you or is there some timing issues here as well? It could be but although it seems to be a we’ve had this issue before but yes it could be.
it sounds like you’re kind of scratching your head a little bit too or is that wrong? No.
I think that is fair a little bit.
I think we are scratching our head given what we know that we are actually delivering.
Okay.
And then that was very very good.
The coffee profitability I think it was mentioned just quickly that there is hedges that are going to help coffee profitability quite a bit in the second quarter.
Can we have little more detail around that? This is Mark.
I guess the only other additional detail we have said in the past that we hedge for basically between 18 weeks to 22 weeks.
So clearly we’re covered over that period at a certain cost and we price to a certain cost as well.
So it’s just basically a difference in the pricing position and cover position that will generate that margin.
In the second quarter Mark would that be expected even with let’s say Maxwell House gets promotional again the elasticity of demand is now what we think is it just kind of baked in the coffee profitability is going to be up almost no matter what happens to the end markets at this stage? Yes.
We have certainly factored in some potential competitive responses and what might be necessary understanding we still believe that the margin increase is still there.
and then I will yield.
Today when making the question about marketing spend in the quarter was it up down maybe I missed that? I don’t know if you have any thoughts.
It was fairly comparable as a percent of sales with last year’s first quarter.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
Thanks for answering my questions.
Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Good morning.
In scanner measured channels your biggest branded competitor in jams and jellies just saw nearly a 20% drop in sales year-on-year in a category that otherwise seems to be doing fine.
So I am not really seeing anything that will be driving this.
You look at their prices.
They actually have seemed to rise significantly less than yours did over the last few months and they don’t seem to be promoting any less.
So I am wondering if there has been any changes you have seen in any competitor strategies or retailer strategies in this category.
I am not really asking you to comment on any competitor or retailer specifically but maybe you could just shed some light on some of the industry dynamics right now.
Sure.
Hi it’s Steve Oakland.
That is odd for the jam and jelly categories any of us to move that dramatically in one quarter.
I can speak for our business and I mentioned it in the previous comment a number of our back-to-school events were moved into July or moved into August from July last year and I can assume that.
The other thing that we’ve done and we spoke in the script sort of the favorable mix.
We’ve also put much more focus on our strawberry business than our grape business.
And as you can imagine that provides a much better dollar range for us better margins for us and we also think it is a great place where our brand is so strong.
So it is not because we’ve gone out and taken the grape jelly business.
So I really can’t speak to why their numbers are the way they are unless their key customer events are pushed back into the later end of the year as well that’s the only thing I can think of.
As a ferocious eater of peanut butter and jelly I am disappointed in your strawberry strategy there.
Well we have grapes available.
You just might have to pay a little more for it.
Promotions (inaudible).
Okay.
And then I am curious about the overall innovation environment right now.
I guess both for you and in general for food manufacturers with all of Wal-Mart’s for SKU rationalization over the past two years and given the back to basics approach of both consumers and retailers maybe there hasn’t been a lot of room on shelves for new products.
But now that Wal-Mart has reversed course they are going back to this more branded merchandising focus strategy I’m wondering if there isn’t I guess a more welcoming atmosphere for new products right now.
You guys mentioned some innovation today.
My guess is there’s a lot of manufacturers that have a backed up R&amp;D pipeline right now.
So is it a fair assessment that maybe we can expect new products to be a bigger driver than they recently have or is it too early to say that? And I guess I’m asking both about Smucker and the industry as a whole.
Ken I’ll start and I’ll let the others comment as well.
I guess from our perspective you still have to have an item that’s going to appeal to a consumer and be able to spend for it to be successful long term.
You are correct about this the overall SKU rationalization environment.
Many of the SKUs that were eliminated during some of the major reviews have actually been added back very very significantly.
I don’t know whether that necessarily makes the hurdle higher for new products or not.
We have been successful with virtually every one of our product categories where we believe we’re bringing a consumer value and a proposition to the retailers they tend to go in.
If there’s one thing that’s probably changed over the years is that they manually take them during certain periods of time when they’re reviewing their sets.
And so that’s something that we’re all very very sensitive to and they all tend to be on different cycles.
this is Paul Wagstaff.
In Oils and Baking side we did launch about over a dozen new items this past year and actually we’ve seen some very good acceptance of those items the two key ones sugar-free frosting and cake mix as well as some cookies.
So that’s actually a nice bright spot in our baking business.
This is Richard.
I just think there is both continue to be emphasis on good and good for you products.
And whether it’s ourselves or anybody in the food business because I do think there is a real emphasis on people wanting to eat healthy.
It’s still in the media and we still push out on that.
So I still think it’s strong.
This is Tim.
Let me just add say that also as we’re positioned in many of our brands in fact most of our brands as category leaders one of the things we look at first of all is what’s the right set and sometimes we’re the first ones to recommend some SKU recommendations and add good for you products in there.
So we’ve been really active in that area across all brands.
Thanks very much.
Jon Andersen of William Blair.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
I wanted to just touch on the outlook for the balance of the year.
Obviously you’re off to a strong start with a solid first quarter and if I kind of run out the growth for the subsequent three quarters it looks like to be expecting a low-single digit EPS growth from here on out to get within that range.
Again given what you said about pricing actions in Coffee profitability in that business in the second quarter what sounds like a strong set of innovation and back-to-school and fall bake programs is there a certain element of conservatism here? I’m just looking for a little more color on why that outlook would have been maintained at this point versus maybe taking a higher fare? Thank you.
Hi Jon it’s Mark.
I guess I would just sort of point everyone back to Tim’s comment because I think that really tried to capture our view.
While we certainly see some upside in the coming quarter and as we’ve talked there are some key areas competitive pressure is expected to continue.
So we just think it’s a little premature to just assume that that will go down.
So I think your point of conservatism is probably fair in that when we get through the next quarter clearly we’ll have our back-to-school behind us.
We will be into fall bake.
We’ll have a good read on that.
We’ll have probably a little better sense of maybe where some of the commodities are headed.
And if appropriate at the time we’ll adjust guidance.
Right now we think keeping within our range is appropriate.
Sure just on the K-Cup opportunity can you talk a little bit about the timing of the introduction how many SKUs we’re talking about and have your expectations for supporting that emerging piece of the Coffee business? Thank you.
Yes sure.
I suppose without giving away too many secrets we have six SKUs three in Folgers Gourmet Select and three at the Millstone.
The acceptance overall has been probably at or exceeded our expectations.
As I mentioned earlier we’re going to ship next month and should be on shelf by end of month and we have a full complement of support for the launch including a new television advertising campaign.
So we are very very excited about the prospects of that business.
Thanks that’s very helpful.
I appreciate it.
Chuck Cerankosky of Northcoast Research.
Good morning everyone.
Wondering if you could comment on what you are seeing the consumer doing as you look at the mix of first quarter sales not only in terms of what products were moving relative to the fourth quarter but also things like sizes and you mentioned the Uncrustables doing better.
That’s a nice indication but perhaps you could give us a little bit more across the board.
This is Richard.
I’d like to turn it over to Steve.
I think we said this a little bit last year we see a continuing sense that they are concentrating more on our base products and Steve you see that more in your business probably than others.
So you might just comment on some of them.
Chuck we had a good peanut butter quarter.
We had a strong traditional fruit spreads.
What I mean by that is regular strawberry and preserve strawberry jam grape jelly.
Large sizes do well but quite frankly some of those channels that are doing well right now tend to sell those sizes whether it be club whether it be dollar whether it be one of the mass channel.
And those channels quite frankly the consumers’ going there right now.
So I am not so sure if it’s the consumer the shopping channels of so large sizes or their desire to buy large sizes.
The other thing though if you look at the absolute opposite of that our Orchard’s Finest product candidly we were conservative with that initial rollout.
It’s a premium product.
The best fruit we buy 100% sugar small size expensive.
It continues to exceed the numbers we thought it would and we are continuing to roll it national.
So that’s on the exact opposite of that trend.
So you just got to be flexible and you have the products for each different channel and be able to put them there.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Robert Dickerson of Consumer Edge Research.
Mr.
Dickerson your line is open.
Hi guys.
I just had a couple of easy questions just to clarify.
I know Q4 I think you said for the year your expectation was raw material costs are going to increase about $70 million.
Is it still on track? No it clearly has increased with the cost of coffee increase and we are probably looking something almost two-and-a- half times that.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then also for the back half of the year as you go into fall bake expectations on an increase in marketing spend I mean obviously in Q1 you said your spend was about the same as you saw in 2010 year-over-year.
Would you expect that to continue or would there be potentially some increase in marketing? I think that as we said marketing spend as a percent of sales was 6.6 this quarter same as the last.
I think our marketing spend all in all will be pretty comparable.
And I’ve got to remind you that last year was a record spend in marketing so to spend at that level is a significant statement and we should be near that number.
Yes.
I could probably agree.
And then also just obviously I know a lot of people are asking about your Oils and Baking segment and what’s happening there it’s very competitive.
We obviously know what’s going on at Wal-Mart.
I am just curious kind of – I know you have the strategy in place but kind of going forward if we’re looking at volumes and what the trends have been in the actual segment I mean obviously they’re weak I’m just curious what you think get those volumes back up essentially outside of just having to drop price I guess that’s one? And then two you’re doing a lot better in coffee and there is obviously a lot of margin benefits there.
I’m just wondering at what point do you look at Oils and Baking as a segment for the total company and seeing that as potentially holding back some of the value in your overall business.
Paul Wagstaff.
To answer for the first part of your question what brings some of the volume back we’ve looked at this over the years and clearly when we get our price on shelf right and that means it’s at our competitor level.
We see significant volumes gain come back to us.
So I wouldn’t say that price is clearly the driver there.
Paul let me just add to that that when we think of our brands all of those brands are icon brands.
Pillsbury and Crisco are great brands and it’s not just one product in that category.
So Crisco is made up of oils shortening sprays and olive oil.
And that brand together is a very very strong brand as is Pillsbury in frostings in mixes and cakes powder flour.
So clearly those are great brands and they continue to be and we continue to support them long term.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
I’ll pass it on.
Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Hi thanks for taking the follow-up.
I guess somewhat related to the last question.
Tim and Richard from an industry perspective it seems like the pretty deep promotions really haven’t resulted in kind of volume growth and I think whether it’s that aspect hurting the food companies and their stock performance and the retailer is kind of suffering from deflation and a lack of volume response.
I guess maybe you could comment on again broadly thinking about the industry what do you think where has the volume gone? And then two even though you’re kind of calling for the promotional levels to maintain themselves as we kind of progress through the rest of the calendar year do you see the coming inflation as likely to instill more discipline and eventual pricing through a retail? Eric this is Tim.
Let me just take an overall comment first.
As you know we take a long-term view of the business and the economy.
We are in a global environment as we all know and I think everybody consumer our customers our competitors are looking for balance.
And to us our consumers and then consumers are looking for value and research that we have shows that they define value as what I get for what I pay and I value products and brands that reflect my values.
And so we have been and are committed to giving our consumers our customers and our shareholders that balance and that value through our consistent quality products through transparency as we deal with our consumers and our customers.
And with that we think that long term we earn our trust everyday with our consumers and then that helps us to fulfill our purpose of providing memorable meals and moments with our consumers.
So that’s sort of a global perspective and we think that that’s been consistent over the years and will be consistent going forward.
There are going to be fluctuations in volume here and there by quarters but we think that we are responsive and flexible and do have the tactics and the quivers to address those issues.
I might just add to that is that we always say we are responsible promoting and I think Eric you had a good point.
A lot of these deep discounting have not driven the category growth.
Categories have not grown because of the deep discounting.
So we are willing to participate but we are only willing to participate to a level that it makes sense for the category for the customer.
So on our tactics our tactics we are trying do them responsibly really to build the business as Tim said for the long term and not just go after the short-term volume hits.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up for Mark.
I am trying to remember back when we had a lot of input cost inflation I think it was the company’s policy to basically not really disclose the dollar amounts for mark-to-market adjustments.
I notice that this quarter you were pretty specific on what impacted gross margin.
And with this run in input cost it seems to me that and especially kind of saying you’re your hedge position in coffee is pretty favorable in the second quarter that there is going to be more mark-to-market gains in the P&amp;L.
So are you going to kind of identify those going forward or is it just going to be the regular kind of course of business because as you know most of the other companies in the industry basically pull the mark-to-market changes out of their P&amp;L? Couple of comments Eric on that.
I think first of all we provided the information and I think we have been both sides of that.
A couple of years ago I guess we had a fairly significant and for a couple quarters following that we included in our release and our communications and of course we have it to some degree just as we would on anything else it is a bit of degree of materiality.
So part of this is just how much.
I think in these times particularly as we’ve seen run-up in some of the wheat and little bit soybean including coffee that it is the expectation that those are out there and we feel it’s good disclosure to have it.
Our philosophy is and the reason we included is that hedging is clearly a part of the business and there is a lot of things to go into what generates that.
And we think putting the numbers out there is beneficial to you and to the investors and they can kind of treat it as they will.
But I don’t think it’s any significant change in our philosophy as far as it being in this quarter.
And then – sorry to follow up on that.
So in the 450 to 460 of operating earnings for the year you are just basically assuming that by the time we end up with the year these mark-to-market gains or losses are going to net out and that 450 to 460 is including whatever volatility that accounting requires? That’s right because right now what you’re seeing basically that’s the market for the commodities as of the end of July.
And if all the things hold then that cost will flip.
But you’re correct.
We’ve not built any assumptions of any significant gains or losses in our guidance.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Jane Gelfand of Barclays Capital.
Hi again thank you for the follow-up.
Just a quick question.
Mark on the last quarter’s call we talked about your assumption that the trade spend budget that’s netted from gross sales really wouldn’t go up a whole lot year-on-year despite the fact that it was a more aggressive kind of promotional environment.
So clearly we’re talking a lot more about kind of tactical moves and the continuation of some of the aggressive behavior into the next couple of quarters.
So I guess how much did promotion peak away from the top line in the first quarter and how do we expect that to kind of trend through the next couple and through the rest of the year? Jane this Mark.
In terms of the quarter it really wasn’t very significant.
I think it held true to pretty much what we said at the end of the last fiscal and that it wasn’t going to be dramatically different.
I guess more on a macro approach for the remainder of the year and again it’s kind of tied back to again some of the comments around our guidance is that we’re going to continue to monitor the competitive activity and we’ll react as necessary and as we head through the next quarter we’ll have a better sense of that.
But I think it’s just more of a kind of wait-and-see and as everyone has said we’re going to be rational in what we do but there may be times that we’ll have to address certain categories with those additional promotional dollars.
Thank you.
Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Thanks.
Given the success you have had in coffee would you ever consider getting even larger and expand into other shelf stable beverages? It’s my understanding that maybe some tea brands for example might be for sale.
And I guess without asking anything specific of course I am curious whether tea would even fit with your strategy or are you more comfortable looking to grow more on the food side right now? This is Richard.
I’ll just speak broadly.
Our strategy is to own number one brands sold in the center of the store.
We really don’t comment on individual categories in that regard.
So we look at a number of different categories and we’ll continue to do that.
But it really does have to fit that overall broad strategy.
Sorry I can’t be more specific.
No that’s okay.
And I know the call is running long but just a general question about consumer products.
It’s my understanding that Wal-Mart the new regime has not been happy about all the out-of-stocks it’s been experiencing.
Possibly they are willing to accept higher inventory levels in exchange for fewer out of stocks.
Is this something that’s consistent with what you’re seeing out there? And if so is it possible maybe this could lead to a temporary almost manufacturer-driven or retailer rather driven trade loading if you will or is this not likely to happen? Ken I can’t say that we have seen that and have not heard that that’s the case.
So if it’s going on we’re not aware of it.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Ed Aaron of RBC Capital Markets.
Thank you.
Just a follow-up for Paul I guess on the Oil business.
The pricing environment and the results this last quarter were kind of similar what happened last year where you had your main competitor promoting aggressively in a period where you tend to maybe lay low a little bit because you don’t view it as your prime season for that business.
So in that respect you seem similar to last year but you seem maybe a little bit more concerned than you were a year ago about that continuing and I am just wondering when you think about this business right now versus a year ago why do you maybe seem to have a different view of the fall bake season and the pricing environment for that period than you seemed to have had last year at this time? Yes hi Ed.
I think one of the things that’s different versus last year is this competitive activity we have been seeing has really it started at the end of or during fourth quarter of last year and it’s continuing and I think that’s longer in a duration than we have seen previously.
So it seems like there may be slight change in some competitive activity and their strategies and so it just adds little bit of the uncertainty to our upcoming fall bake and what we are anticipating from our competitors so that’s really the driving factor.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
Lucas Klein of Putnam Investments.
Hi guys.
Just a couple of questions around coffee profitability.
I guess is there any way that you can be more specific for us about what you are looking for in terms of the level of profitability for coffee in 2Q? And then you had a 30% to 31% I think long-term margin target out there for coffee.
Obviously that changed a little bit with the amortization reclass to that segment.
So can you just tell us kind of what the latest thinking is about reasonable long-term margins in that segment? Thanks.
Hi Lucas.
This is Mark.
In response to your first question we really aren’t going to provide any specifics around the quarter estimates.
That’s just not something we would normally do.
In terms of longer term it’s the question it would be quite candid.
I am surprised that it really took to this part of the call.
But we have been pretty open.
Since we bought the business that we had set some specific margin targets but we always sort of had the caveat that that was assuming no significant price changes.
That clearly is no longer the case.
So we really don’t anticipate putting a margin percentage out there we are just not sure that’s all that meaningful.
But the expectation is we will continue to grow the business in line with our other business units.
From a company’s perspective we expect to grow our operating income roughly 6%.
And that comes from both the businesses as well as the corporate administrative functions.
So they will achieve the targets that are going to help contribute to that.
Great thanks a lot.
thank you very much for all your interest in the questions today.
And again thanks to all of our great employees for their commitment to our consumers and our shareholders.
So thanks a lot.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen if you wish to access the rebroadcast after this live call you may do so by dialing 1-888-203-1112 or 1-719-457-0820; with a passcode of 111-9146 or by accessing the Website for a downloadable MP3 format.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning.
And welcome to The J.M.
Smucker Company’s Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all participants are in a listen-only mode.
At the request of the company we will open the conference up for questions-and-answers after the presentation.
Please limit yourself to two initial questions during the Q&amp;A session and re-queue if you then have additional questions.
I will now turn the conference over the Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Mark Belgya.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone.
And welcome to our second quarter earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us.
On the call from the company are Tim Smucker Chairman of the Board and Co-CEO; Richard Smucker Executive Chairman and Co-CEO; Vince Byrd President of Coffee Business; Steve Oakland President of Smucker’s Jif and Hungry Jack; Mark Smucker President of Special Markets; and Paul Wagstaff President Oils and Baking.
After this brief introduction I will turn the call over to Tim for opening comments.
I will then review the financial results for the quarter and Richard will provide closing remarks.
At the conclusion of these comments we will be available to answer your questions.
If you’ve not seen our press release it is available on our website at smuckers.com.
A replay of this call is available on the website.
If you have any follow-up questions or comments after today’s call please feel free to contact me or Sonal Robinson Vice President of Investor Relations.
I would like to remind you that in both the prepared comments and during the question-and-answer period that follows we may make forward-looking statements that reflect the company’s current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates and actual results may differ materially due to risks and uncertainties.
I invite you to read the full disclosure of statement in the press release concerning such forward-looking statements.
I also want to point out the company uses non-GAAP results for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.
Additional discussion on non-GAAP information is also detailed in our press release and on our website.
I’ll now turn the call over to Tim.
Thank you Mark.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
We are pleased to report another quarter of earnings growth even though we continue to operate in a challenging economic and competitive environment.
Let me summarize the key highlights for the quarter.
First sales for the quarter increased 1% excluding the impact of divestitures and foreign exchange.
Pricing and favorable mix offset an overall decline in volume.
Second on a non-GAAP basis operating profit was up 10% and combined with a lower effective income tax rate resulted in a 13% increase in earnings per share.
Third we announced an expansion of our current restructuring project to improve the cost structure of our Canadian pickle and condiments business.
And finally we entered this year’s Fall Bake and Holiday period with strong multi-brand promotional programs that incorporate all of our major brands and we are optimistic about the season.
Now let me provide commentary on each of our four business segments.
In our Coffee segment sales and segment profit were up for the quarter despite a decline in volume.
We anticipated volume declines in the quarter due to significant pricing actions taken earlier in the year to offset increased green coffee costs.
The decrease driven by Folgers coffee was larger than anticipated as our primary competitor continued to be aggressive with promoted price points.
Overall we remain encouraged as we move through the Holiday period and into the remainder of the fiscal year.
Our launch of Folgers Gourmet Selections and Millstone brand K-Cups this quarter enhances our participation with the single serve category.
We are pleased with the K-Cups performance to date as all major customers have accepted the product offering.
Primary marketing support of the launch including television advertising began in November.
The Dunkin’ Donuts coffee brand is continuing its strong momentum aided by distribution gains turns on the core business and the success of new product launches and this includes our new Dunkin’ Donuts seasonal items which are all performing well.
In the Consumer segment volume increased 1% excluding divestitures while net sales declined reflecting the price decrease taken on peanut butter earlier in the fiscal year.
During the quarter we concluded a successful back-to-school period despite a very competitive environment particularly in the peanut butter category.
We are encouraged by the consumer response to our Jif To Go offering also the growth of Jif Natural continues to drive share gains in the peanut butter category.
Turning to our Oils and Baking segment unprecedented competitive pricing throughout the quarter contributed to sales in volume declines compared to a strong second quarter last year.
In many instances particularly in the baking business we chose to protect profits over market share.
We believe the current aggressive pricing will continue throughout the remainder of the Fall Bake period but are encouraged by the merchandising programs we have in place for the Fall Bake period.
Further the Crisco brand has shown signs of volume improvement over the trends in the previous few quarters.
This follows the price decrease taken on Crisco oils to narrow price gaps on everyday basis.
Our Special Markets segment had a strong quarter with volume gains realized in all four business areas.
This was led by natural foods which benefited from improving trends in our natural and organic foods categories.
Volume gains in Canada were driven by a strong Thanksgiving Holiday period for the baking business.
Also Folgers coffee continues to show significant growth in both the U.S.
food service business and from Canada.
So in summary we are pleased to have delivered another good quarter.
As we continue to navigate this challenging environment we remain committed to responsibly managing our business for the long-term with a focus on balancing volume growth share market and profitability.
I would now like to turn the call back to Mark to have him review the financial results for the quarter.
Thank you Tim.
Net sales for the quarter were equal with last year and up 1% excluding the impact of divestitures and foreign exchange.
Pricing and a favorable sales mix overcame a 4% volume decrease that was driven by declines in our Oils and Baking brands and Folgers coffee in U.S.
retail.
GAAP earnings per share were $1.25 this quarter and $1.18 in the second quarter of last year including charges related to restructuring and merger integration activities excluding these charges earnings per share were $1.38 this quarter and $1.22 in last year’s second quarter an increase of 13%.
The quarter results benefited from a lower tax rate when compared to the prior year gross profit excluding charges increased $14 million to 39.6% of net sales from 38.5% last year.
Reflected in gross profit were unrealized mark-to-market losses on derivative contracts of approximately $6 million.
Coffee pricing actions taken earlier in the year relative to the recognition of higher green coffee costs contributed to gross profit in the quarter.
As you probably are aware green coffee futures continue to increase during the quarter and into November hitting new 13-year highs for [America].
If these costs are sustained pricing actions in the future are likely the impact of other raw material costs was mixed as milk sugar and soybean oil were higher and peanuts and flour were lower.
SG&amp;A expenses declined 4% compared to the prior year and decreased as a percent of net sales from 18.2% to 17.4% primarily due to a decrease in marketing expenses.
You may recall last year’s second quarter included a significant marketing investment in support of brand building initiatives including advertising.
We continue to invest in marketing behind our brand with the decrease in the quarter reflecting a return to more normalized level expense.
In addition a portion of the marketing expense decrease was reallocated to support promotional programs particularly in the Oils and Baking segment.
Operating income excluding charges increased $24 million for the quarter if operating margin improving nearly 200 basis points from 18.7% in last year’s second quarter to 20.6% this year.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 32.5% compared to 34.9% in last year’s second quarter.
This anticipated lower rate in the current year primarily reflects benefits realized from an increased deduction relating to U.S.
manufacturing activities along with lower state income taxes.
We anticipate the full year effective tax rate to remain comparable to the year-to-date rate of 32%.
Now let me turn to our reportable segments starting first with the U.S.
retail coffee segment.
Net sales increased 7% over the prior year reflecting price increases totaling 13% taken earlier this fiscal year.
This was partially offset by a 7% volume decline and increased trade promotion.
The Dunkin’ Donuts brand continued its double-digit volume growth.
Introduction of K-Cups during the quarter contributed approximately 2% to net sales in the Coffee segment.
Coffee segment profit increased $17 million representing a 13% increase over the prior year.
This reflects the impact pricing versus recognized green coffee costs.
Based on our hedge positions we expect to recognize steadily higher green coffee costs as we progress through the fiscal year.
Current year segment profit reflected lower marketing expenses as the prior year included significant investment spending in the brand.
Sales in our U.S.
retail consumer segment were down 6% primarily due to the divestiture of the potato business along with the impact of the 5% price decrease taken on peanut butter in the first quarter excluding the divestiture sales declined 2% while volume increased 1%.
As gains in schmuckers fruit spreads and Jiff peanut butter offset by declines in Smucker’s food spread and Jif peanut butter were partially offset by a decline in Smucker’s Uncrustables and toppings.
Segment profit increased 5% reflecting lower supply chain and raw material costs along with the favorable sales mix.
Marketing in this segment increased during the quarter.
Segment margin improved 300 basis points from 24.3% in last year’s second quarter to 27.3% this year.
The divestiture of potato business contributed to the margin improvement.
In the US retail oils and baking segment net sales and volume for the quarter declined 8% and 10% respectively as the competitive and promotional environment in the oils and baking category continued throughout the quarter.
The Pillsbury brand experienced double-digit declines in volume for the quarter partially due to a planned reduction in flour sales.
Decreases in canned milk sales occurred.
Volume for the Crisco brand declined 3% while sales decreased by a larger percentage due to decreases taken earlier in the fiscal year.
Segment profit in the quarter decreased 10% and profit margin was lower by 30 basis points.
Segment profit which reflected the decline in sales was also impacted by higher raw material costs and unrealized mark-to-market adjustments on commodity contracts.
Sales and volume in the special market segment both increased 4%.
The favorable impact of foreign exchange contributed to the increase in sales.
All business areas in the segment realized volume gains for the quarter led by natural foods business which was up 12%.
Volume gains in Canada along with the growth of Folgers coffee in both the US food server and Canadian business areas also contributed.
Segment profit was strong increasing 24% for the quarter mainly due to coffee price increases taken earlier in the year lower flour costs and the favorable impact of sales mix.
Segment margin increased over 300 basis points from 16.7% to 19.8%.
Turning now to our input costs we continue to see significant increases in the market price for the majority of our key commodities most notably coffee wheat corn and oil.
As a result we now expect fiscal 2011 cost increases to approximate 7% of costs.
While we are generally hedged on key commodities from late third quarter to mid fourth quarter in the fiscal year we will continue to monitor the situation closely to determine appropriate future pricing actions.
Let me conclude my remarks with a few comments on cash.
Cash provided by operations was $47 million in the quarter bringing the year-to-date total to $20 million.
This compares to cash provided by operations of $188 million for the first half of last year.
Reflected in the decrease between years is an $80 million impact from a change in the timing of income tax payments which were accrued at year end but paid in June of this year.
An increase in green coffee and other commodity costs along with higher inventory levels also contributed to the year-over-year change.
As a reminder we expect a significant use of cash for working capital during the first half of each fiscal year with a buildup of inventory in advance of fall bake and holiday season and the additional buildup of coffee inventory in advance of the Atlantic hurricane period.
We expect the generation of cash to accelerate in the second half of the year as we complete our key seasonal period.
We’ve revised our capital expenditures forecast for the year lowering our full year estimate from $235 million to $200 million.
Approximately $25million of this decrease is due to a shift in the timing of expected cash outlays for capital related to the coffee and fruit spreads restructuring project.
Although this is a shift in the estimated timing of the cash payments the timing for the overall project remains on track.
Capital expenditures related to the project are now estimated at $70 million for fiscal 2011 therefore taking the impact of the tax payment working capital and capital expenditures changes in to account we would estimate free cash flow to approximate $450 million for fiscal 2011.
Lastly I would like to comment briefly on dividends and potential share repurchase.
On November 6 we marked the second anniversary as completing the Folgers merger.
This milestone represents the point at which our two-year restriction on repurchasing shares lapsed.
We currently have approximately 3.7 million shares accrued or repurchased by our board under previously authorized plan.
Our intention would be to begin repurchasing the shares contingent on market factors.
Turning to dividends our stated [payout] target is 40% of annual earnings.
We are currently below that goal and the average dividend yield of our peer group.
Our board will take this into consideration as they review the future quarterly dividends.
I would now like to turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Mark and good morning everyone.
As Tim indicated the current landscape remains challenging yet we realized another quarter of earnings growth and are positioned for a good third quarter.
We base this outlook on the strength of our brands and a combination of new products and marketing programs in place for the fall bake and holiday period.
Marketing activities include several new television ads that are currently airing or are planned for the upcoming holiday period.
Within coffee we have new commercials supporting the Folgers and Dunkin’ Donuts brand as well as the recently launched K-Cups offering.
In the food spreads category our first ever Smucker’s holiday commercial began airing this week.
This advertisement is a continuation of the voice campaigning which emphasizes the heritage of the Smucker’s brand.
And finally our national expansion of the Jif to Go product will be supported by increased marketing efforts.
Additionally we continue to invest in digital marketing as an opportunity to leverage technologies and strengthen our relationship with our constituents.
This includes the recent launch of social media pages for some of our iconic brands including Folgers Jif Pillsbury and Crisco allowing our consumers new opportunities to interact with these brands.
Turning now to operational practices and cost structure during the quarter we announced the expansion of our current restructuring project to address capacity underutilization in the Canadian pickle and condiments business.
This initiative includes transitioning the majority of the Bick’s pickles and condiments production to third party manufacturers in the US and the closing of our manufacturing facility in Ontario Canada.
Combined with our coffee and food spread supply chain initiatives we now expect to achieve annual savings of approximately $68 million from these restructuring activities when fully implemented in fiscal 2015 excluding one-time costs.
As Mark mentioned the overall timeline related to the project remains on track.
With this addition to the restructuring project we now expect total restructuring and merger integration charges of approximately $125 million in the current year of which approximately $45 million are cash related.
Let me conclude with our outlook for the year.
Net sales are expected to increase in excess of 3% for the full year primarily due to pricing actions.
Volume for the last six months of the year is projected to be comparable with the prior year.
We are increasing our earnings outlook as we now expect non-GAAP income per diluted share to be in the range of $4.55 to $4.65 including amortization expense of approximately $0.40 per share.
This guidance excludes restructuring and merger and integration costs which are estimated to range from $0.70 to $0.75 per diluted share for the full fiscal year.
The impact of share repurchases is excluded from the range.
Consistent with our historical trends we anticipate a larger portion of the second half earnings per share to fall in the third quarter.
Further although to a much lesser extent than has been in the second quarter we expect an incremental benefit in the third quarter due to our hedged coffee position relative to price which is reflected in our earnings range.
As a reminder last year’s third quarter included $10 million of non-cash impairment charges related to the write-down of certain intangible assets.
Looking ahead the impact of higher commodity costs will flow through our results and have the most affect in the fourth quarter.
Keep in mind that last year’s fourth quarter included a one-time gain of approximately $13 million from the sale of the potato business.
It also benefited from an unusually lower tax rate of 28%.
Considering these factors we do not expect to repeat the strong earnings experienced in last year’s fourth quarter.
We believe [net] fiscal year earnings per quarter will reflect a more traditional pattern.
Overall we have confidence in our ability to continue to provide long-term growth for our shareholders.
So in summary we delivered another quarter of earnings growth in a challenging environment.
Second although we anticipate further cost escalation in commodity markets we have a proven ability to navigate our way through these challenges.
Third we feel confident in raising our earnings outlook for the year.
And finally we continue to demonstrate our commitment to enhancing shareholder value through stock repurchases and a strong dividend and will continue to evaluate alternatives to do so.
We thank you for your time today and now I will be happy to answer your questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question will come from Farha Aslam with Stephens Equity.
Good morning.
Good morning Farha.
Congratulations on a great quarter.
Thank you again.
First question is could you just give us some more color about the $6 million mark-to-market loss in the oils and baking division.
How -- how does that work?  Sure it’s Mark.
Well the $6 million actually was for the total company for the quarter.
But obviously a portion of it -- but the way it works is there is a couple of different pieces of it.
On the oil side and I won’t get into a lot of technical matters here but on the oil side we actually deferred gains or losses in hedging and match them to the period we actually used the physical inventory.
So that’s really any hedging gains or losses are put onto the balance sheet.
So what flows through the P&amp;L is mark-to-market on primarily wheat or flour hedges because of the rules -- the accounting rules around those hedges.
So that’s typically what you will see coming through that would represent the large portion typically in any quarter for all of the segment as it relates to hedging.
And that $6 million did include coffee right?  That’s everything.
That’s everything.
That’s all company hedging activity.
All company.
And then my follow-up would be on M&amp;A could you comment on the M&amp;A environment in what you are seeing out there in terms of acquisition? It’s probably heating up a little bit although I wouldn’t say it’s out of the normal.
Tim as well as Richard (inaudible) I think that’s right.
I think we continue to look at a number of opportunities but it’s not the same as it has been before.
Any particular areas of interest? We have -- as you know if you look at our strategy our number one brands sold in several stores primarily North America.
So there is a lot of good brands out there so I think that would be a nice fit with our portfolio.
Thanks for the color.
Yeah.
Okay.
Next we’ll hear from Ed Aaron with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Hi Ed.
Good morning Ed.
Wanted to ask first on just on the promotional environment you mentioned in coffee you had more volume because of what your primary competitor was doing.
It does seem like they pulled back a little bit this month in particular are you seeing signs of improvement there? And then on the baking business you mentioned that you didn’t expect much near-term improvement in the competitive landscape but one of your main competitors there announced a recent price increase.
So just trying to understand that.
Thanks.
Hi.
This is Vince.
I will take the coffee question first and I will turn it over to Paul.
I would say clearly that there was a lot of competitive activity on coffee during our quarter.
We’re particularly pleased actually with our results given that even though the coffee has risen significantly.
If you look at our pricing of our bean roast and ground and premium coffee competitors both of them were below last year’s levels basically.
We have seen some indication of that starting to turn around.
And as I think Tim or Richard mentioned in the formal remarks we’re balancing everyday our volume our share -- our sales and our profitability.
This is Paul.
In regards to baking side I think the primary time frame we were talking about is Fall Bake.
We don’t anticipate any change in promotional activity going on through Fall Bake.
And as you know we’re right in the middle of that as we speak.
We have seen that announcement from one of our competitors taking the pricing up and that really is more of an impact for the fourth quarter.
Got it.
Thanks.
One follow up if I could just -- you mentioned that you expect to have the hedge benefit again in coffee in Q3.
If you do like a 20-week lag analysis on the coffee commodity it’s hard to understand why there would be another benefit this quarter and if some research you do by call it to 18 to 22 weeks out I’m just trying to understand that a little bit better.
Well I guess without getting in to specifics you’ve for all kinds of purposes you are correct for 18 to 20 plus weeks out.
There may -- there will be a small benefit in the third quarter not as much as in the second but a lot will depend on where the commodity rests for the balance of the fiscal year.
So we do anticipate a little bit of benefit in the third.
But if something doesn’t happen with the commodity coming down we will obviously be in a unfavorable position in the four at this point.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Our next question will come from Alexia Howard of Sanford Bernstein.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Hi.
Couple of quick questions the guidance for the sales outlook for the full year implies I think acceleration of the back half that you attributed mainly to pricing but it sounds as though the -- you are expecting the volume situation to stabilize versus being down this quarter.
Could you talk a little bit about the dynamics there what gives you the confidence that the volume situation will improve maybe by segment where are you expecting to see more pricing coming through and so on.
Hi Alexia.
This is Mark.
I will just try to confirm your comments and then turn to the guys to comment from the respected areas.
You are right.
From the topline the pricing we have in place particularly the full back half year impact of the 13% coffee that’s out there will drive a lot of that guidance and also volume we are expecting to level off really across most of the business segments on the back half.
So if there is any specific items you want to add to that.
This is Vince.
Again I think we are confident with what we have in place.
As mentioned earlier we are seeing some indication that competitive price points are moving up.
And -- but a lot will determine on where the commodity rests primarily in the third quarter but we hope to drive some volume and last year’s fourth quarter was not extremely strong in terms of our growth.
So I think we can at least meet hope we meet that for as we look forward.
Alexia this is Paul Wagstaff.
And on the oil side we did see oils volume start to come back here in the recent four or five weeks and we would anticipate that continuing through the balance of the year.
Got it.
Thank you.
And then… Alexia just to give you the consumer business of the peanut butter and fruit spreads businesses actually grew slightly in volume for the quarter.
So we expect those trends to continue particularly in peanut butter as you know we took a price decline in the first quarter.
Well the impact that’s really masked in second quarter because that’s the key promotional back to school period.
So we should get the benefit of that in volume in the third and fourth quarters.
Great.
Got it.
And then on the marketing side obviously there was a pull back op marketing against I guess a lot of spending last year.
Do you expect that to kind of shift from marketing in to more promotional activity to continue going forward or would you expect that marketing spend to stabilize or as an increase as we look out.
Well let me just -- this is Tim.
Let me just make a comment.
Again as we think about building the brands long-term you will see the fluctuations from time to time.
But we are committed to building all the brands because as you know 70 plus percent of our business is the number one brands.
And we’re committed to do that.
There will be ups and downs by quarter but that hasn’t changed our overall commitment.
So I don’t know Vince… Yeah.
I would say I think it was in Mark’s formal remarks that last year was probably unreasonably high because we chose to invest back in incremental spending.
This year is a normal level.
We haven’t cut the marketing in the coffee business although we did increase some of our promotional spending as we spent back some of the green.
And I’ll turn it to Paul or Steve to comment on their segments.
Yeah.
I think -- this is Paul.
On the oils and baking side we have seen some intense competitive pressures and we have -- we do manage for the long-term as Tim was mentioning however from a quarter-to-quarter basis we did pull back some marketing and put it in to some promotional pricing and now we would anticipate that as ongoing issue but short-term we are doing that.
In the U.S.
retail Smucker Jiff businesses we will see marketing grow just a slightly faster pace than volume and I think as in the prepared remarks we’re excited about some of the new advertising creative and success on Jif to go and look forward to supporting those.
This is Mark.
I would just add from a Canadian perspective that we had a very good year there not only Fall Bake but in terms of the marketing than we have unprecedented levels of marketing spend and advertising activity to support the brands.
So I think from that perspective it’s been positive for Canada as well.
Great.
Thank you very much.
I will pass it on.
Our next question will come from Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
Good morning everyone.
Nice quarter.
Hi Chuck.
Mark could you look ahead just for a bit into next fiscal year? What do you think the tax rate will be? Chuck it will probably be up a little bit higher than this year probably not dramatic.
The impact issue we’re seeing is this is the final year if you will of maximizing the deductions be given to U.S.
manufacturers that was sort of stepped up.
And we finally hit the maximum percent.
I don’t think you are going to see the decrease.
Obviously we don’t know what is going to change overall but that aside probably up marginally from where we were being running last year or two.
Okay.
Could you talk a little bit about Uncrustables in the context what sounded like and otherwise good back to school but also where the consumer’s head is at regarding more expensive value added product? Hi Chuck.
Steve Oakland.
Uncrustables year-to- date is down just slightly.
And it wasn’t the strongest quarter but if you remember in order to consolidate that all in to our Kentucky facility we discontinued some of the items the peanut butter only item cheese item those items which were in the last year’s comparables.
So I think when you take that out that’s about half of the loss when you take out some of the other timing of the events so I think we feel Uncrustables are doing fine retail self turns are fine and we think those numbers will improve a little bit in the retail segment as we get in to the back half of the year.
Mark.
Yeah.
I will add that.
Food service business in schools has recently -- doing recently well.
It’s basically flat that’s the overall the total from a total venture and we are running the plant very well.
We are producing as many sandwiches as we can and actually looking at expanding our capacity here in the fourth quarter.
So that we can continue to meet demand.
All right.
And then looking at coffee volume promotional market was a little more than you would have expected.
How long do you intend to put up with that kind of a volume detriment that you saw in the second quarter? Wish that already reverse.
Well Chuck again it’s a balancing act as we said earlier of measuring balancing volume share and profitability.
You know quite honestly we just don’t think that some of the levels is good for the category and our customers long-term.
Having said that the Folgers brand obviously responds very very well to promotional activity and we’ll just have to monitor as we go through the balance of the year.
All right.
Thank you.
And next we will go to Ken Goldman with J.P.
Morgan.
Good morning.
Hi.
When we think about the algorithm between coffee cost pricing and volume is there a breakeven relationship you look at between price and volume in order to keep pay profits flat.
I guess what I’m asking is you had 13% pricing 7% volume loss this quarter in coffee.
Is that enough going forward if coffee costs stay where they are considering they are going to hit you harder looks like in 2012 to maintain penny profit that year? And if not how should we really think about the potential impact to your bottom line.
I’m not really asking I guess for guidance next year just for clarity as a general rule about how to think about that? Well I guess as we’ve stated previously we are charged with growing our segment profits year-on-year until margins may vary percentages may vary year-on-year.
And we are on plan to do that as we speak.
Again we will take pricing action as necessary to -- in order to protect margins primarily penny for penny.
It’s again a balance between the volume the share and the profitability if the commodity remains where it is today more than likely we will have to consider some action in the back half because we obviously did anticipate where the commodity sits today when we took the pricing action back in August.
It was a significant lower of that particular point.
One other thing just I add there has been a tremendous amount of new product activity over the years.
And that has that also plays obviously as we invest whether Dunkin’ Donuts K-Cups other singles [or decaffeinated] all those kinds of activity and there is a lot of that going on and a lot in the pipeline.
So that will also have an impact.
And then as a follow up has elasticity has price elasticity been where you thought it was higher or little bit lower.
I know it’s early any help you can provide that would be appreciated? Well Ken again we take a long-term view of the business but it’s obvious that we were down in the quarter none of us likes to see our volume move down and our share go down.
But as you have pointed out in your analysis a lot of that was not necessarily driven by our pricing action as much as it was driven by the key competitors’ pricing action which you’ve done a great job of articulating.
So we’re again very pleased with the results overall when you considered all of the noise and the competitive activity that was going on in the quarter.
I already have a buy on you guys flattery can’t increase that anymore.
We will hold off until next time.
Please.
My head is big enough.
All right.
Thanks guys.
And next we will go to Jason English Goldman Sachs.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning Jason.
We don’t have a buy so flatter away.
Couple of questions.
Obviously and fairly late in the queue so there been a lot of questions asked already.
I’ll just spilled on couple of small ones.
Looking at your guidance now after a strong quarter here you are kind of implying roughly flat to modestly down EPS in the back half.
But I hear you talking about pretty Fall Bake programming this continued benefit of the hedge/price mismatch in coffee and the possibility of some share repurchase activity.
What are some of the headwinds you are concerned about as you’ve laid out this back half outlook? Jason this is Mark.
Well couple of things.
One is I think you guys are well aware of this but last year we did have an abnormally low tax rate particularly in the fourth quartet so a little bit of that comparison is driven by that.
I think generally while we agree with the positive comments you just said there is still the risk and the uncertainty of what cost is going to do and any pricing actions either ourselves or the competitive environment that we are facing.
So to some degree I think it’s a little bit of what happened in the last six months.
We are feeling a little bit of reservation in the guidance.
Mark I might ask that.
This is an industry risk I think not just a Smucker risk.
Of all the commodity costs going up we track eight commodities but most of our competitors are buying those commodities.
And so as we look to raise price and protect our margins everybody in the industry is going to be affected by that.
So they will question us and what is the consumer going to do and how is the consumer going to respond and are they going to be more cautious.
So I think we all have that to be alert to.
Hi yeah.
Let me just add one other thing Richard.
It’s just the political environment.
I mean you’ve seen today [Bowls] announced Simpson 100 to tube today yesterday and today and the consumer is looking for balance.
There is a lot - They are looking for certainty.
They are looking for certainty.
And that isn’t just a consumer but it’s a customer.
And the customers are trying different things and we are trying to navigate right through that and be consistent as we can and look for balance.
So that’s all going to be we are all dealing with that.
Fair enough.
So stepping back and building on the conversation you just had with Ken.
In coffee is a good example where category is pricing up volume holding in okay the issue or the challenge you are faced with is not in aggregate category elasticity of that but whether a cross elasticity of that with one competitor moving faster than the other one promoting more aggressively than the other.
This is I think broadly about the industry and prices rising as this wave of inflation hits.
Is that the bigger risk that some move faster than others some continue to promote a little bit longer than others and we just get a quarter or two of some disruption? Yeah.
I think that is true.
I think that is exactly right and there is a risk there.
Our strategy -- as the balance we talked about several times.
We don’t believe that although we discount and offer we think value deals to our customers.
You can’t deep discount your way to profitability or to long-term growth.
And that really isn’t good for the industry or the category.
And we’ve got -- there is a lot of hard evidence and if that’s true and so we try to continue to be I would call a responsible competitor as opposed to taking some deep discounting approach.
Yeah.
I think that’s the right approach.
Thanks a lot guys.
I will pass it on.
And next we will go to Jane Gelfand with Barclays Capital.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Jane.
Good morning.
Hi.
Just a quick question about the fiscal fourth quarter.
There was a brief mentioned of a potential lag the other why between coffee hedging and coffee pricing at the same time you are clearly considering another pricing move.
So I guess what I’m wondering is what do you need to see to decide one way or the other whether you are going to price or not or is it just -- the sustainability of the commodity level or a certain competitive environment? And then is there enough time to decide that throughout the fiscal third quarter to ultimately sort of mitigate that gap? Is it enough to kind of or should we think about a serious lag or is it more of a dollar-for-dollar matching thing then you are going for the fiscal fourth quarter? You articulated very well.
All of those factors it depends on where the commodity is it depends on where our position is.
And of course what is going on from a competitive environment.
I will say in coffee we have the luxury though of implementing pricing very very quickly.
So once the decision is made we tend to implement that in a very short period of time unlike some other markets or some of our other product categories where we may not have that luxury.
We are not concerned with the ability to implement it once the decision is made.
But as I mentioned earlier if the commodity does not take a dramatic change as to where it is today we will be faced with some type of pricing action in action in the back half.
Go it.
So we shouldn’t be thinking about a serious lag between the pricing and the hedging come the fiscal fourth quarter.
No.
Okay.
And then just as a follow up on maybe use of cash.
I’m wondering about maybe how your thought process may have evolved as you were nearing the point of this kind of lapsing of the two-year lockup just on the pacing and kind of timing of share repo I’m wondering whether you chose to moderate that a little bit or maybe because you are seeing the M&amp;A environment heat up or at least the pipeline.
I’m just wondering whether your thinking has changed at all just given some of the things here you are seeing on the M&amp;A side potentially? Hi Jane.
It’s Mark.
I don’t think I would characterize as any change in our thinking.
I think we’ve been pretty consistent.
I’m sure most of you on the phone have you seen our chart where we allocate or show deployment of our cash fairly evenly across the different outlets.
So it relates to repurchase we said time and again that we had the 3.7 million shares that -- in fact if you go back before Folgers transaction we were pretty active in the market.
So to some degree our continuation of buyback shares is just a continuation of what we are doing prior to the transaction.
But I guess generally I would say there has been no material change to our thinking as it relates to deployment of cash.
Fair enough.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jon Anderson with William Blair.
Good morning everyone.
Hey John.
Good morning John.
I had a question on Dunkin which was particularly strong in the quarter I think up double digits in volume.
Just wondering if you can bring us up to date on where you are in terms of distribution at grocery what opportunities there are in terms of adding additional SKUs and facings on the shelf and until the outlook for growth going forward can that kind of growth be sustained in the near to medium-term? Sure.
Well first of all the growth in the quarter was driven by two primary reasons.
First increased distribution in terms of our core SKUs so that’s going to original and the others but it was also significantly benefited by the launch of our seasonal items that we put into the marketplace and in fact in one major retailer one of the seasonal items was the second highest selling SKU of the entire bagged coffee segment second only to our Dunkin original.
And so the seasonals definitely did have a play during the quarter and continue to do so.
Going forward the team is continued to be challenged to have double digit growth in that.
We have very few SKUs compared to our competitors our ACV is very strong on your original and some of the top flavors but there are opportunities to continue to expand the ACV significantly.
Thanks.
That’s helpful.
I know it’s very early but is there early read on kind of the K-Cups rollout and initial sell through and what kind of programming -- media programming are you planning through the holiday season? Yeah.
Great question.
First of all I’d just like to compliment and thanks our marketing and sales and operations team and the relationship that we have been able to establish with Green Mountain and Keurig.
That project all came to cushion in a very very short period of time.
As -- it was mentioned in the former remarks although we haven’t necessarily shifted to all customers at this point all major customers have accepted it.
We did kickoff some marketing support this past couple of weeks.
We have for the first time I believe a K-Cups has been nationally advertised and we also dropped the [FSI] this past weekend as some of the initial support and the initial reads are very very positive.
But it’s still early days at this point.
Thanks.
Just one last one if I might.
Marketers inventories were up about 8% year-on-year just wondering if that’s a reflection of higher commodity costs and what’s in that number with the growth ahead of sales? Yeah.
It clearly is driving a lot of that year-over-year and if you look across and coffee it’s a significant piece of that but our other businesses inventories are also [upset that is all].
Okay.
Thanks congratulations.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And next we’ll go to Ian Zaffino with Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
Just going back to the whole farm green coffee thing.
Ignoring your hedges and given where commodity costs are right now how much price would you need to take on the coffee side? I don’t know that we would disclose that information necessarily.
First of all coffee is fluctuating $0.5 to $0.10 a day and it’s up another $0.5 this morning.
So I guess I prefer not to give a range right now.
Ian this is Mark.
Just to that point -- if and when we do take any kind of pricing action coffee we typically followed up with release.
So you will know that but it is our policy not to describe any pricing moving prior to any announcement.
Okay.
And then the other question would be on the Folgers side what it was the actual volume on the coffee side x Dunkin’ Donuts and x the K-Cups? Yeah.
It was down about 7% in volume but I would point out that it had a pretty difficult comp because last year it grew 5% in last year’s second quarter.
So that 7% is excluding Dunkin and K-Cups.
It would be a couple of percentage points lower with it.
Okay.
So like a 9ish.
Yeah.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next we will hear from Eric Serotta Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning.
Eric welcome back.
Thanks.
Just a point of clarification here the 7% commodity inflation number that you cited is that pre-hedging or does that include the impact of your commodity hedges? That has been challenging.
What we typically will say over the course of the year is what our absolute anticipated cost increase over the fiscal year is that number has moved from $70 million at the outset of the year to roughly to the numbers around 200 million based on that cost.
So that would be the expected cost we would incur during the fiscal period.
Okay.
And then shifting gears a bit if this was the first quarter in sometime that you didn’t highlight oils as an area of weakness in fact you pointed to Crisco as an area of strength.
Could you comment a little bit about the dynamics and the edible oil market what you are seeing from your branded competitor and from private label? Hi Eric.
This is Paul Wagstaff and we’ve definitely seen competitive pricing on both the private label and our number one competitor through the Fall Bake time period so far.
I think what we did we announced a price decline in August to better reflecting pricing on shelf that would be similar to our number one competitor and that has had a favorable impact on volume that we’ve seen that’s increased here recently.
Okay.
Most of my other questions have been answered.
So I will turn it back.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And next we will go to Scott Mushkin with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Thanks for taking my question.
I know again we are waiting in queue.
I want to take a step back and I know you guys referenced running the business for the long-term a couple of different times.
And as I look at the numbers coming out now we are just selling through the chainable which seems to be coming out of a channel consumers baskets it seems that we have about 65 maybe 70% of the business making oils and coffee not showing great market share or volume growth over a multi-quarter period now.
I put it in three.
So I guess my question is oils clearly responded to what you did in August and that seems to be abating.
When do you look at the other businesses and say okay? No moss we need to take some action.
And I appreciate I think as I said before it’s not all about price what do you do because company just builds on gaining share making great brands even better.
How are we supposed to look at this as investors when do we need to take some actions here.
Can we look at the earnings we are putting up right now as over earning to a degree? That’s not the way we look at it.
We do take a long-term approach and actually this is the first quarter where we actually had a volume decline.
But part of that volume decline was planned.
And lot of the volume is in heavy items such as flour we planned it to lose some margins and loss some volume in flour.
Coffee was probably not planned because we had a great run for the last 24 months on coffee almost or actually short of that 21 months on coffee.
In general we are not seeing what you are seeing overall for long-term period.
We recognized this quarter was down a little bit in volume.
But that was - part of that was planned.
And Scott this is Paul.
The only other comment I’d make from competitive perspective over last prior three -- almost four quarters we’ve seen some unprecedented pricing action of our competitors that again going back to I think a comment that Tim made earlier in the presentation we want to focus on your balanced volume and share market and profitability.
And we are just not what willing to at this point shave some of those the deep discounts we don’t think that’s good for the category.
That being said we did made some changes on the oils and we think that’s rebounding nicely.
Our baking business we actually feel pretty good about for Fall Bake.
So hopefully we will see the results shortly.
In another part we haven’t talked about is mix and the types of products that we sell it’s not just the volume it’s the mix of products that we sell.
I know especially in peanut butter and in fruit spreads we are getting a better mix of products than we’ve ever had before.
We are actually selling less great this year which is not a high margin item but it’s a high weight item.
More strawberry And more strawberry which is much better in the same cost.
You might speak to that Mark.
Yeah.
This is Mark Smucker.
Just in special markets as well we are seeing favorable mix across the board pretty much in every one of our business units there and in Canada we are seeing we have seen some decent share growth in many of those categories as well.
In categories that are not typically growth categories we have been able to increase our share at the expense of some of our competitors.
One other follow up we were selling more alternative channels which aren’t measured as well.
And so when you ask whether these numbers they don’t really measure the alternative channels and probably most manufacturers in the consumer foods area are selling more in the alternative channels.
We definitely are.
And so that business picked up nearly as well in some of the numbers that you are looking at.
Thanks for all that color.
I really appreciate it.
And then did you guys and I’m sorry I’m actually in a car so I haven’t seen it did you guys actually give us the hedging gain in coffee? Did you give us the dollars? No.
Because it’s not really the hedging gains.
The hedging -- actually is overall hedging losses for $6 million to the company.
It is basically what you are seeing in coffee.
It’s coming through the cost of goods sold.
It’s not hedging gains in this regard.
How much did it benefit Mark cost of goods sold? Do we know? No.
We wouldn’t quantify that Scott.
It’s just basically a driven -- it’s the reason margins were as they were for the quarter in coffee.
And the 6.6 million is that coffee in there too? So that’s a net number or is it not part of that? That is a net number.
All company’s hedging activity across the board are in that.
And was that sequentially was that up or down? It’s not dramatically different.
I will tell you a year ago.
It’s about -- it was about $5.5 million last year so pretty even swing.
But it’s not -- Last year it wasn’t dramatically different.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Thanks a lot Scott.
And next we will go to Mitch Pinheiro with Janney Capital Markets.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Couple of questions.
One of the 2% K-Cups contribution is that primarily channel fill versus takeaway? Well sure.
I mean a lot of it is but I can tell we had some very good reads from some early customers where the volume is turning and we’ve had reorders.
So but yeah sure a lot of that was the initial fill.
Looking at the next quarter you will have a similar type of sort of the rest of the customers in the channel fill plus continue to takeaway is that how is it going to be a similar kind of growth rate or contribution? Yeah.
No.
I would -- we would still see significant growth rate I would think in the third and fourth quarter as we fill the channels and get the initial -- the initial read on shelf takeoff.
Okay.
And what is the likelihood of you introducing additional SKUs in K-Cups in the next 12 months.
It’s very likely.
Okay.
In terms of broader questions and my last question is -- I would love to I’m looking at IRI in the categories and I look at the the cook at home segment a lot of the categories whether baking mixes and baking nuts and sugar and condensed milk and a lot of different cook at home categories seemed very weak in the last couple of reporting periods.
What is your interpretation of that? Is that not the right characterization or was it really a tough comp to a year ago or how would you look at this category as being weak on a volume basis? Hi Mitch.
This is Paul Wagstaff.
I think one of the comments I would say is that there is a little bit of a timing issue.
It seems like what we are seeing is consumers are shopping later than they did last year as far as taking those types of products off the shelf.
So we would anticipate to see those type of products being taken off of the shelf now versus in second quarter which -- when you go back to previous years there was more -- I’d say there was an earlier buy in from that consumer.
So I wouldn’t say we are concerned I just think it’s a little bit different timing.
Are you seeing any -- x the impact of Holiday which is hard to do but any other -- have you seen any change in trends either leaning towards or away from the cooking at home? No.
I don’t think we have.
I think we still feel that we are seeing consumers cook and bake more at home and that trend as we see it continues.
I think another thing Paul that some of our customers have limited some SKUs early last year and they thought that -- they found that wasn’t good idea.
So they are putting those back so you are seeing some of that now and that’s what -- to Paul’s comment that they are buying later now because they are getting more choice now.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you very much.
And next we will go the Karen Lamark with Federated Investors.
Good morning.
You may have answered it with your response to Jane about deployment of cash but I wanted a little more clarity under dividend comments.
I understand you are currently running less than your targeted payout ratio but is one of your considerations are raising the target payout ratio and secondly are you considering taking some action on the dividend before April which is when I think you typically do it.
Thanks.
This is Mark.
I think in terms of the dividend first of all we have been pretty consistent with years with the 40% target we think that’s appropriate.
We do look at that periodically verses our peers but right now I think the board is probably more focused on getting us closer to that target.
It’s obviously something that we will look at going forward as we evaluate ways to return value.
But that’s just something the board looks at every time and I think the fact that we are running a little below.
We are just trying to point that out and the board will take that into consideration here in the next couple of meetings.
Okay.
Should we still expect any action as it is going to be taken will be April or before that? I really can’t speak for the board.
I may think that we provide them with the information and they will take actions they see appropriate.
Okay.
Thank you.
And unfortunately we are out of time for questions today.
Gentlemen I would now like to turn the conference back to you to conclude.
Well thank you very much for your interest and always great questions and I just want to reiterate what Richard said earlier that our team is -- just want to thank our team it’s just a fantastic team and thank you for you support.
Wish you a lot of memorable meals and moments over the next holiday season.
So thanks a lot.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen if you wish to access the rebroadcast after this live call you may do so by dialing 188-203-1112 or 1-719-457-0820 with a pass code of 582-6472 or by accessing the web site for a downloadable mp3 format.
This concludes our conference for today.
Thank you for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning.
And welcome to The J.M.
Smucker Company's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference call over to the Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Mark Belgya.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone.
And welcome to our third quarter earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us.
On the call from the company are Tim Smucker Chairman of the Board and Co-CEO; Richard Smucker Executive Chairman and Co-CEO; Vince Byrd President of our Coffee business; Steve Oakland President of Smucker's Jif and Hungry Jack; Mark Smucker President of Special Markets; and Paul Wagstaff President of Oils and Baking.
After this brief introduction I will turn the call over to Tim for opening comments.
I will then review the financial results for the quarter and Richard will provide closing remarks.
At the conclusion of these comments we will be available to answer your questions.
If you've not seen our press release it is available on our website at smuckers.com.
A replay of this call is available on the website.
If you have any follow-up questions or comments after today's call please feel free to contact me or Sonal Robinson Vice President of Investor Relations.
I would like to remind you that in both the prepared comments and during the question-and-answer period that follows we may make forward-looking statements that reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates and actual results may differ materially due to risks and uncertainties.
I invite you to read the full disclosure statement in the press release concerning such forward-looking statements.
I also want to point out that the company uses non-GAAP results for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.
Additional discussion on non-GAAP information is also detailed in our press release and on our website.
I'll now turn the call over to Tim.
Thank you Mark.
And good morning everyone.
And thank you very much for joining us.
Let me begin by summarizing the key highlights of yet another strong quarter.
First we concluded the recent Fall Bake and Holiday season with volume up 4% excluding the impact of divestitures.
Many key brands including Crisco Jif Smucker's Dunkin' Donuts and the Bick’s brand in Canada realized gains.
Second the continued rollout of our K-Cup products contributed 4% to Coffee segment net sales for the quarter.
Third non-GAAP operating income and earnings per share increased 12% and 9% respectively.
Fourth the business generated $375 million in cash from operations representing a new quarterly record.
Finally our commitment to delivering shareholder value remains strong.
During the quarter we repurchased 3.7 million common shares utilizing $240 million in cash.
In January our board authorized another 5 million shares for repurchase and declared a 10% increase in the dividend following a 14% increase last April.
Needless to say we are pleased with these results which reflects our team's disciplined approach to managing the business and our ability to generate strong cash flow.
Let me now provide a few comments on each of the four business segments.
In our Coffee segment sales were up 18% for the quarter reflecting pricing actions taken earlier this fiscal year while volume was down 2%.
The continued rollout of Folgers Gourmet Selections and Millstone brand K-Cups exceeded our expectations and is providing overall growth to the single-serve Coffee category.
The Dunkin' Donuts coffee brand delivered another quarter of strong performance.
Its volume was up 8% with continued growth of the core business and the successful launch of Dunkin' Donuts seasonals.
We continue to invest behind the brands during the Fall Bake and Holiday seasons.
This included new television advertising for the Folgers and Dunkin' Donuts brands and a full array of marketing support behind the K-Cup launch.
In response to the unprecedented rise in green coffee costs which reached a new 14-year high we announced an additional 10% price increase earlier this month.
While total U.S.
Retail Coffee volume was down it was better than anticipated especially during this period of high prices and ongoing aggressive promotional activities of our competitors.
Our Coffee volume also benefited from strong growth in the alternative channel markets primarily in warehouse club and chain drug stores.
Turning to the Consumer segment.
Increased sales and volume excluding divestitures reflected strong performance across all three brands Smucker's Jif and Hungry Jack.
In addition to solid gains in fruit spreads and traditional peanut butter our Jif Natural product continued its significant growth more than doubling volume over the prior year.
Marketing spending was up 5% for the quarter focused on multi-brand promotions and our first-ever Smucker's holiday advertisement which received great consumer response.
Our Oils and Baking segment delivered increased sales and volume despite the ongoing competitive environment which impacted the segment's profitability.
Crisco realized a 27% increase in volume reflecting our efforts to narrow the price gap on shelf.
This growth more than offset the decline seen earlier in the year resulting in a 4% volume gain year-to-date.
Although Pillsbury experienced volume declines in the quarter we continue to be encouraged by the success of new offerings including our seasonal and sugar-free product lines.
Finally our Special Markets segment had another quarter of growth with sales and volume up over the prior year.
The Canadian business benefited from a strong Fall Bake with an overall volume gain of 6% led by Bick’s pickles Robin Hood flour and Folgers coffee.
These results continued our positive trends in Canada as we have grown market share in most of our key categories during the fiscal year.
Sales and volume in the Foodservice business increased 3% led by gains in Smucker's portion control products and Uncrustables.
In addition the Natural Foods business continued its momentum reflecting improvements in industry trends and the success of new products.
In summary our team executed a successful Fall Bake in conjunction with our retail partners utilizing multi-brand promotions responsible pricing and significant on-air advertising presence.
We achieved another quarter of strong earnings and generated record levels of cash further strengthening our position to deliver on our strategy.
I would now like to turn the call back to Mark to have him review the financial results for the quarter.
Thank you Tim.
Net sales for the quarter increased $107 million or 9%.
Excluding the impact of divestitures and foreign exchange sales increased 10% for the quarter.
Although pricing had the biggest impact on quarter-over-quarter sale gains volume and mix also played an integral part in the sales growth.
GAAP earnings per share were $1.11 this quarter and $1.14 in the third quarter of last year including charges related to restructuring and merger integration activities.
Excluding these charges earnings per share were $1.27 this quarter and $1.17 in last year's third quarter an increase of 9%.
The impact to the share repurchase activity was modest contributing $0.01 to the third quarter earnings per share.
The fourth quarter will receive the full benefit of the lower shares outstanding which currently stand at approximately 116 million shares.
Included in the third quarter results for both years were noncash impairment charges of approximately $17 million and $10 million respectively primarily related to the write-down of Europe's Best intangible assets in Canada.
This represents $0.10 and $0.05 respectively on a per-share basis.
These amounts are included in both our reported and non-GAAP results.
The current year impairment was recognized in order to adjust the book value of certain intangibles to their estimated fair value based upon current business expectations.
Gross profit excluding charges increased $33 million but declined slightly as a percent of net sales from 38% in the prior year to 37.4%.
Higher raw material costs for green coffee milk sugar and soybean oil more than offset lower costs for peanuts.
Coffee price increases taken earlier in the year relative to the recognition of higher green coffee costs contributed over 1/2 of the increase in gross profit in the quarter but did not result in overall gross margin gains.
Price reductions taken on Crisco oils also negatively impacted gross margin for the quarter.
Unrealized mark-to-market adjustments on commodity instruments in the third quarter of 2011 were not material.
SG&amp;A expenses in the quarter were equal to the prior year yet declined as a percent of net sales from 17.8% to 16.3% as spending trailed the increase in sales.
SG&amp;A expenses reflect a modest decrease in marketing expense and lower employee-related benefit costs offset somewhat by higher selling expenses.
As a reminder we stated previously that we expected margins to be down for the last six months of 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 but not as much as the decline realized in the first half of this fiscal year.
The marketing expense for the quarter was consistent with this outlook.
Operating income excluding charges increased $26 million for the quarter.
This resulted in an operating margin improving from 17.8% in last year's third quarter to 18.4% this year.
Excluding the noncash impairment charges operating margins would have been 19.7% and 18.6% respectively for the third quarters of 2011 and 2010.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 32.6%.
This compares to last year's third quarter rate of 31.3%.
The increase was primarily due to the fact that tax benefits associated with our Canadian operations and changes to the company's uncertain tax positions were greater in the third quarter of 2010 as compared to this year.
This was partially offset by an increased benefit to 2011 related to the U.S.
manufacturing deductions.
Looking towards the fourth quarter we anticipate a higher rate than last year's 27.9% which was unusually low.
Overall we estimate the full year effective tax rate will fall between 32% and 33%.
Let me now add a few more details on our reportable segments starting with U.S.
Retail Coffee segment.
As Tim noted net sales increased 18% in the quarter reflecting the price increases taken earlier in the fiscal year and a favorable sales mix.
Volume was down 2% as declines in the Folgers brand were only partially offset by an 8% growth in the Dunkin' Donuts brand.
Our new K-Cup products contributed favorably to the sales mix adding approximately 4% to segment sales while its impact on volume was less than 1%.
Segment profit increased $25 million or 19% over the prior year.
Increases in gross profit a favorable sales mix and overall lower rate of promotional spending and the 8% reduction in marketing expense all contributed to segment margin increasing 40 basis points in the quarter.
In the U.S.
Retail Consumer segment reported sales were flat to prior year and up 5% excluding divestitures.
Sales reflected a 7% increase in volume driven by strong gains in our peanut butter and fruit spread businesses partially offset by a 5% price increase taken on peanut butter in the first quarter.
Segment profit increased 9% due to lower supply chain costs including the impact of consolidating all Smucker's Uncrustables manufacturing into our Scottsville Kentucky facility.
These savings combined with lower costs of certain raw materials offset an increase in marketing.
Segment margin improved over 200 basis points from 24.2% in last year's third quarter to 26.4% this year.
Turning to the U.S.
Retail Oils and Baking segment.
Net sales and volume for the quarter increased 4% and 3% respectively.
Volume for the Crisco brand was up 27% during the quarter while sales increased at a slower rate reflecting the price decrease taken in the second quarter to lower price on shelf along with incremental promotional spending.
Pillsbury Baking products volume declined 9% from the planned rationalization of lower margin flour business and the continuing competitive activity experienced in the category.
Despite the decrease in volume Pillsbury brand sales in the third quarter were equal to the prior year reflecting the benefits of sales mix and pricing.
The branded canned milk business continued to experience softness due to competitive activity resulting in an overall 5% volume decline in milk in the third quarter.
Segment profit in the quarter decreased 12% with segment margin declining by more than 200 basis points to 12.4%.
The decrease reflects the net impact of pricing actions along with higher costs for milk sugar and soybean oil.
And finally Special Markets net sales and volumes both increased 7%.
In Canada volume gains were driven by the pickles baking and coffee categories.
Due to the temporary withdrawal of several competitors' products our Bick’s pickles brand experienced above normal volume growth in the quarter that is not expected to be sustained.
Foreign exchange also favorably contributed to the increase in sales.
International foods business volume was up 20% for the quarter reflecting an increase in the non-branded side of the business.
Segment profit declined 8% in the quarter reflecting the incremental impairment charge I spoke to earlier although partially offset by the favorable impact of sales mix segment margin decreased nearly 200 basis points from 14.2% to 12.3%.
However if you exclude the impairment charges in both periods segment margin would have improved by 220 basis points over the prior year.
Turning to commodity costs.
Market prices for the majority of our key raw materials continue to increase.
Since the beginning of the calendar year we took price increases on coffee oil and baking products.
We will continue to monitor the situation closely to determine whether further pricing actions will be required as the most recent movement in commodities will not fully impact us until next fiscal year.
Let me conclude my section with a few comments on cash.
As expected cash provided by operations was significant with nearly $375 million generated in the third quarter.
This brings the year-to-date total to $394 million compared to $512 million for the first nine months of last year.
The year-over-year difference continues to primarily reflect the $80 million impact in the change and timing of income tax payments we discussed with you earlier in the year.
With year-to-date capital expenditures of $111 million our nine months free cash flow is approximately $283 million.
We are tracking towards a range of $400 million to $450 million for the full year.
Key factors that could impact the final free cash flow would be the timing of capital spending on our new facilities in New Orleans and Orrville and the impact of increasing commodity costs on raw material inventory purchases.
We now expect capital expenditures for the year to approximate $175 million.
With that I will now like to turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Mark and good morning everyone.
As Tim noted we are pleased to have delivered another quarter of strong financial results adding to what has already been a solid year of performance.
We feel positive about the strength of our business and our brands and the plans that we have going into next year.
Certainly the increase in commodities is a concern.
While there are a number of improving signs in our economy we recognize that for many value is still top of mind when it comes to food purchases.
We will continue to take a balanced approach to pricing share of market and profitability.
As we look to conclude fiscal 2011 we expect full-year net sales to increase 4% over last year.
This is slightly higher than last quarter's guidance and is primarily reflective of the volume gains seen in the third quarter and the recent pricing actions particularly in Coffee.
Non-GAAP income per diluted share is now anticipated to be in the range of $4.60 to $4.65 including the $0.10 impact of impairment charges recorded in this quarter.
The range also includes the impact of share repurchases made to date but does not include any impact of future share repurchases as they would not be material for this quarter.
Consistent with our definition of non-GAAP measures this range excludes restructuring and merger and integration costs now estimated to be between $0.65 and $0.70 per diluted share for the full fiscal year.
In summary we delivered another strong quarter with record sales non-GAAP earnings per share and cash flow.
Second although commodity costs continue to rise we are addressing these challenges effectively and responsibly.
The strength of our leading brands our ability to react swiftly and our disciplined approach give us confidence for continued growth.
Third reflecting the strength of our business we repurchased over 3% of our outstanding shares and announced a 10% increase in our quarterly dividends during the quarter.
Fourth beginning next fiscal year we expect future dividend adjustments will be considered by the board for the dividend payable in September of each year.
This combined with the additional share repurchase authorization provides further opportunities to enhance shareholder value.
And finally we would like to thank our employees for their continued commitment to our brands to our strategy and to each other which is key to our long-term growth.
Thank you for your time today and we'd now be happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
I guess my first question has to do with the lack of kind of elasticity that you saw across the portfolio.
As you've kind of increased prices as the fiscal year has progressed maybe you could kind of talk about kind of the retailer and consumer reaction you've seen and how much promotion was kind of -- we didn't see in the top line? And did that the effective use of promotion help you in terms of generating what seems like a low level of elasticity? Why don't we take it by each of our businesses probably the best way to describe it.
Eric this is Vince.
As you know and most of you have reported given where coffee prices have been it would indicate that the effect of elasticity would be much greater than what we saw during the quarter and year-to-date.
And as Mark said I think our volume was down 2% in the quarter in Coffee.
And I would just like to make the point though that's on a difficult comp of last year we were up 4%.
I guess we're very very pleased.
The bottom line is we're very very pleased given the volume how it reacted in the quarter and particularly given some of the competitive activity in the major retailers.
So net-net we're very pleased but I think it's also fair to say we're in uncharted territory given coffee sitting at 14-year highs.
I will say that we are seeing some volume being shifted to non-measured channels and again as the consumers shop from different outlets we’re seeing the benefit of that.
Eric it's Steve.
If we look at the Consumer business and I think we talked each quarter we reduced our peanut butter list price to reflect the lower cost of peanuts that we've experienced this year and we were the only major brand to do that.
And so we saw our branded volume every day on some key sizes on 28 ounce and 40 ounce and those value sizes come down below some key deciles.
So that allowed us to use marketing mix and use promotional spending that wasn't as deep as the stuff we saw competitively.
We saw 10 for $10s and all of this other stuff going on between private label and branded but we were able to get the everyday price right put incremental promotion where we needed to but stack the marketing mix against it.
Really pleased with the response.
Eric this is Paul.
On the Oils and Baking side specifically speaking to Crisco we did take a price decline in the second quarter and that was really meant to close the price gaps on shelf and I think we were able to achieve that.
You could see we were up 27%.
We did have some additional spending so we did buy some of that share back but we felt that we did get a low point in how much share we're willing to see erode.
And we felt actually pretty good with the results of that volume gain in the third quarter.
I would say in Canada -- this is Mark Smucker.
We have a pretty broad portfolio of products there and generally speaking our promotions both in the Fall Bake in the baking area as well as across some other categories like coffee have been very effective.
We have seen some easing of competitive activity and that obviously helped us as well.
And then I guess my follow-up question would be to Mark.
And I just kind of want to understand I'm not sure whether you're prepared to go into kind of fiscal 2012 but I suppose you're going to get some significant kind of tax breaks on some of the production that you're doing in the U.S.
given the tax code.
And as your pricing flows through you should get back some of the working capital usage in the cash flow statement and obviously you have the goodwill amortization which kind of hides some of your cash flow versus the income statement.
So when you look out I mean is it the combination of those things that could make cash flow grow pretty strongly next year? And is that why I guess Richard you commented on both the buyback and the dividend moves over the next year or so? Yes this is Mark.
Eric I'll start.
In terms of cash flow we recognize that we have taken our free cash flow down from our original estimate we gave this year and you really hit on the point on the working capital.
We knew that we had -- the change in the tax payment timing was going to be a negative and that basically is something that we benefited on last year.
Even though at the negative we were able to defer tax payment by a few months or so and the result was it was a good thing.
But clearly the increase in commodities and particularly in coffee is driving our increase in inventory.
It's really dollar-driven because we've been able to manage our units very well particularly in finished goods unit so it's clearly a cost issue here.
So as those costs ultimately turn there will be a benefit.
Now I can't say that's going to be next year but whenever that does occur that will benefit.
In terms of taxes I think we would say we have a fairly good tax rate being a North American-based company.
We do benefit as we commented time to time on this U.S.
tax deduction that we do get for our U.S.-based production.
So obviously we're not sure what all is going to change in the tax laws as they work through them but I wouldn't see a major change in that.
But bottom line is we would expect cash flow to improve as the commodities soften.
We're obviously going to generate good cash flow in the coming years and that just adds to the confidence in our willingness to both buy back shares and to consistently increase our dividend.
This is Richard.
I'll just add to that.
As you know we do have very strong balance sheet.
And at the price that our stock is currently trading at our multiple is one that -- investment in our stock is a very good investment for the company and for our shareholders so we anticipate that going into the future.
We go next to Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
I had two questions on coffee.
First just from a cost perspective is there any way to sort of quantify the magnitude of coffee inflation that you've seen so far in your P&amp;L either year-to-date or in the third quarter because some of the hedges that are in place obviously insulates you right now from feeling the full brunt of the price increases.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of how much you felt in your P&amp;L? And then directionally how does that sort of play out assuming spot prices in fiscal '12? This is Vince.
We wouldn't give I guess the specifics but I will say in the third quarter coffee costs were up.
I'll give you a range between 25% and 30% roughly year-on-year.
And then on a going forward basis obviously we just took a price increase in early February.
But I would say that again without giving specifics given our position we did not price to where the coffee is trading today.
And so we would look at if something doesn't happen in a reduction we may be faced with another review of that in the first quarter.
Judy this is Mark Belgya.
Just to add to that kind of your comment clearly the costs they have just consistently risen through the first 10 months of the fiscal year.
We're going to see the full-year impact of much that next year.
And kind of to Vince's point we are going to have to look at prices in probably a number of our categories.
But next year's cost will be up significant even in comparison to this year which was obviously a very high increase year as well.
And your point is that you need to see another price increase that's really fully offset the cost if you look at fiscal '12? Unless the market backs in.
Unless the market.
And then the second question is in terms of your K-Cup.
I think you called out that it added about four points of sales in the third quarter.
So it seems like the run rate is something like $20 million for the quarter and then $80 million for the full year or so.
Is that kind of a good full run rate to use for the full year? What sort of ACV distribution do you have currently? And if you can just talk about some of the progress that you've seen? And if you have any target distribution number of SKUs that you can give us a little bit more color on.
Yes sure.
Well first of all I will say that the K-Cup acceptance by retailers and consumers has exceeded our expectations given it’s only been in the marketplace for four months.
Very very rough numbers on a four-week basis we have about a 60% ACV on Folgers and about a 30% to 35% on the Millstone brands.
But again it's still early days we're still gaining distribution.
You have to keep in mind there's a little bit of seasonality to K-Cups which we are learning.
But we would continue to -- we're going to continue to grow the category and hopefully grow our brand.
So the estimate that you use is probably in the range.
A lot depends on what goes on in the environment but probably where you are is not too far off at this point.
But given that it's far exceeded our expectations at this point we're revisiting our objectives.
And was there any profit impact in sort of that magnitude? Or was that a lot of investment? No actually the profitability is equal to or better than our corporate average.
Our next question comes from Farha Aslam with Stephens Inc.
Could you just give us some color on your Folgers and Dunkin'? In the fiscal third quarter it was Dunkin' that really fueled the growth in volume or the volume in Coffee.
Recently you've seen a lot go on in the Coffee category.
And we've noticed that on shelf in many places Starbucks Coffee is actually equal in price to Dunkin' where it's historically it sells at a premium.
And recently you've had comments by Kraft saying that they are going to take higher pricing in their brand.
So have you seen a flip in terms of your brands as Folgers volume increased recently? And has Dunkin' been pressured? So Farha a couple of points.
First of all in specialty or gourmet it's fair to say that we have now taken three price increases and the main competitor has not and so that gap has significantly narrowed or in some cases gone unfavorable to us.
We're all aware there's a lot of activity going on in that relationship.
Having said that again we were up I think 8% in the quarter and that was on an 18% growth in last year's third quarter.
Relative to Folgers and Maxwell House again prices are up for both of us but our merchandising prices and our unpromoted prices are up higher than our competition.
And in a major retailer they chose to investment in spend back and gain share significantly during the third quarter.
In terms of what we were seeing yes we're starting to see with their announcement and our announcement in February prices are starting to being reflected on shelf.
It's Richard.
I think there's more rational [ph] pricing starting to come to the marketplace.
Everyone knows that these commodity costs are up so I think most consumer product companies are looking at the promotional budget and believing that it's not wise for the consumer or their shareholders to continue to deep discount.
So I think everybody is re-evaluating which I think will be good for us.
And as my follow-up could you comment on the M&amp;A environment that you're seeing right now? Are there opportunities to invest your cash in new businesses? This is Richard and I'll let Tim add to this too but the answer is there's always opportunities.
And as we've said before there's a number of brands out there that we think would be nice fits with our company and there's probably a little more activity now than we've seen in the last couple of years in terms of ideas.
But again those are hit and miss.
You just have to do it at the right time but we're always in the market.
Any particular category? Our center of the store is our strategy so there are a number of categories in center of the store that you can imagine.
None that we're going to talk about today on the call.
But when you walk down each aisle you could imagine there's some good fits with Smucker's.
We'll go now to Jane Gelfand with Barclays Capital.
Obviously there is a lot of sort of investor concern about how you deal with a 14-year high in coffee prices.
So you clearly have a history and a legacy of dealing in more commodity-oriented categories.
So I'm wondering could you maybe compare and contrast what it's like what it's been like for you to kind of price against the spike in coffee? This is your first experience whether it be relative to some of your other categories whether it be in the context of competitive set of dynamics that may be different hedging practices that may be different maybe a consumer behavior that's different given it's a category where there's more kind of a habitual presence or and in general whether it's easier or maybe harder to kind of stay in line with that cost curve or even potentially get ahead of it? This is Tim.
Let me just have an overall comment and then turn it over to whomever here on the team.
But certainly we look at value as more than just price and certainly our dedication to quality the consumer buying over and over again.
So this is not new to us although the spike's a little bit bigger than we've been used to.
But clearly the consumer does understand and appreciate long-term receiving the same quality year in year out time in time out.
And that's what why we want to invest in the brands long term.
So just to provide that's center of our thinking and we'll continue to be that.
So value is up a lot more than price.
So Jane this is Vince.
I guess I would add a couple of thoughts.
First of all we just have a very solid team working in the Coffee business as we do in our other brands and the expertise that has come to us in green coffee and previously in the oils area from Procter has just been very very helpful.
And so clearly coffee is unique.
I think 14-year highs are issues that we're -- and the volatility we're dealing with every day.
But I do think it gets back to one thing and that's the benefit of having number one brands and leading price up or down being transparent with customers and acting responsibly.
And sure we internally discuss and debate what's the market going to be in the future.
But when 80% of the commodity is being traded by non-roasters or people who really need the coffee so to speak it's a challenge but I still think it gets back to the strength of our brands and our ability to implement through our sales team.
Maybe just as a follow-up I know you won't necessarily comment specifically on fiscal '12 at this point.
But as we think about your long-term algorithm maybe excluding acquisition we're looking at kind of 6% to 8% earnings growth without a deal and there are some puts and takes as we think about next year whether it be the $0.10 of impairment charges you absorbed in this quarter or the share repo of 5 million that you've authorized in January.
Some potential for underlying core growth.
So I guess is there's something that you see at this stage from a kind of pricing inflation standpoint that may either prevent you or help you to get closer to where the street expects at that point? And whether you’ve thought about that? Well yes.
Jane this is Mark.
I mean we clearly think about that.
But again just to ground everyone I think that it's consistent with what we've done in the past.
As you know we'll certainly give more color at our year-end call specific to our plans.
But I just think in terms of looking out next year you mentioned a number of items some non-recurring some opportunities to increase EPS such as buyback.
If you go back to Tim's point clearly prices is one of the levers that we do utilize to address these rising commodity costs but we do have opportunities.
As you're aware of we're undertaking a major restructuring project across many of our plants though we'll get some additional benefit from that and then we just continue to look at discretionary spending particularly in times like this.
Pricing though we've taken a number of price increases throughout the year that will continue to benefit us on a full year basis next year.
So although we've talked specifically about the rising cost we do know that some of those costs have been covered already just by the full-year benefit of pricing.
But we'll continue to look for opportunities to offset that if the market stays as it is and we'll just add more clarity as we get closer to year end.
Our next question comes from the Scott Mushkin with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> So I just wanted to get into the K-Cup business a little bit more.
Clearly the volumes were nice in the quarter helpful for the business.
But I guess as we've looked at the K-Cup I guess our concern is growing about what it may do to the coffee market.
I think there's some interesting data out of New England saying that K-Cups are taking some tremendous share up there.
I mean do you share these concerns about what they might do to the ground coffee market over time? And obviously you're in a strategic relationship right now but is there anything else strategically you could do to offset this threat to the ground coffee business? Well I guess our response is is that the reason we chose to align with Green Mountain and Keurig is because we think that they are at least at this point the clear winner in the category.
And we said before like any of our categories we like to participate in all segments and so that's why we chose to get in it as quickly as we did.
The teams did a great job of engaging with Green Mountain.
We have a great relationship with them.
Household penetration is still I believe 4% to 6% or something like that.
Again it's still a $0.55 to $0.60 cup of coffee versus roasted ground which is still going to be in that $0.10 to $0.15 range.
And even a gourmet brand is maybe 2x to 3x that but not anywhere near $0.50.
And so I think we all believe roasted ground will be around for a long time.
And this is Richard.
We've been in the business long enough that we've seen a lot of these trends and some stick and do well.
We think this is one that's going to do well and just continue to be a major part of the category.
But we're in the organic business and have been for a number of years and that's not as big as anyone anticipated it was.
But 10 years ago everybody thought that was going to be 20% of the industry well it's still down in less than 5%.
So I think we have to be engaged in all of these but we also have to make sure that we take a realistic look and that's what we do.
Inc.</strong> Is the switch from ground coffee to K-Cups -- I know you said it's good for the overall margins of the business but is it good for the Coffee segment profits? Not currently.
But again we are investment spending in it.
But we're very pleased where the margins sit today vis-à-vis our overall corporate average.
Inc.</strong> And then this is kind of along the lines with Jane's questions but I'm going to try to see if I -- maybe just trying to understand the math as we get to the fourth quarter.
It seems to indicate the Street estimates are too high maybe some margin pressure here is my guess driven by input costs.
I mean are these -- as we look at the fourth quarter maybe the beginning of next year is this kind of what you guys see with what's going on with commodity price that there's going to be a little bit of pressure? Well yes I mean I think to some degree clearly where costs are there's going to be a little bit.
I mean we were coming off particularly in Coffee but just generally coming off of really three strong quarters of margin.
But still our expectation for overall operating margin is still pretty strong.
But we see some erosion in gross profit.
But one thing Scott and just keep in mind and we've sort of been consistent in this message each quarter is that last year's fourth quarter was unusually strong.
I mean we caught up some specific such as taxes.
But it was extremely strong and we still project a very good fourth quarter.
But I think that there was maybe a little more optimism from those of you on the phone at the outset of the year.
But still project a very good quarter.
Inc.</strong> The organic market I think Mark someone talked about it and said it was up 20% your organic business natural and organic business.
And I think you said there was some private label -- I didn't quite catch what you said about that.
I just wanted to clarify.
What's the organic growth of your organic business if you're going to look at the branded stuff? Well yes the branded stuff business is still very good.
I mean Santa Cruz Natural and R.W.
Knudsen brands continue to grow.
The private label business which is a limited customer is sort of a peak and valley type thing and they just had a very strong quarter.
But clearly our base business which we call our branded business is up for the quarter as well.
Yes this is Mark Smucker.
I would just add to that that in the script we talked about overall the industry is doing well.
That is driven by the larger customers not as much the smaller customers and we have seen some rebound across that entire industry and our branded business for the quarter at least was driven more by the natural beverages versus the organic beverages.
But overall it's still a very healthy business.
And now we go to Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Could you walk us through your take on what's happening right now with green coffee bean prices? On the last call you said I think that prices were high in part because of financial speculation.
And that seems to be true and I think you reiterated that today.
But it also seems that maybe there's a bit of a supply issue from last year's crop still and demand keeps improving from Brazil and China et cetera.
So maybe if you could update us on your outlook there and how you see the fundamental situation? That would be useful.
Ken this is Vince and also I read your report this morning.
Clearly there is starting to be some impact of fundamentals versus speculation.
As you point out the Brazilian crop -- we’re going in what's called the off year but the projections still at this point although early are that it's going to be a very good crop vis-à-vis that every-other-year cycle.
You're clearly right that demand in Brazil and other developing countries is taking some of the taking better coffee.
We all know that Colombia has been under pressure for a couple of years.
So yes there are clearly some fundamental issues going on which has probably helped supporting where the price is.
But it's hard to put a percent on how much is driven by fundamentals versus speculation.
When again you have 80% of the coffee being traded is not from [ph] financial institutions basically.
But yes you are right.
I would say that we probably have changed our view on that over the last nine months in terms of what's driving some of the cost pressures.
You mentioned that Coffee did well in drug and warehouse channels.
Is there something you're doing there that's new and improved? Or is it more that you're going with those channels? I'm just hoping to get some color there on how to think about continued growth going forward.
Yes I think I'd say a couple of things.
First of all clearly Folgers has brought to us an emphasis on some of the more non-measured non-traditional grocery channels than we had before and that's benefiting not only Coffee but some of our other brands as well.
So it gets down to the value proposition of the pricing in those channels vis-à-vis maybe more traditional grocery.
And again if the competitor chose to maybe go after some traditional grocery or a major competitor in some cases we might have been a better value in some of those alternative channels.
But as a mix if you would look at the Smucker Company mix of sales shipped over the years a greater percent of our business is in more non-traditional channels than what it would have been say two to five years ago.
Our next question comes from Ed Aaron with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> I wanted to ask about sort of the coffee inflation issue in terms of how you think about your use of cash.
Because when I think about acquisitions versus buyback I'm not convinced that there's a lot out there that you can buy that has a better value than your stock here.
But at the same time I kind of wonder how you think about just the value of diversification as your cost base just given what you're seeing in the Coffee business and how you -- the value you placed on that when you think about the importance of acquisitions to your model.
Well we agree with your opening comment about the stock price.
Ed one of the things that we've shown time and again really since the Folgers acquisition and I know you're aware of it is what we call our cash and capital deployment schedule.
And we show that the four primary uses or deployments of cash would be in acquisition capital expenditures dividend and stock buyback.
And we do evaluate each of those and we've always said that acquisitions is our primary use because that's what going to drive the growth of the company long term and that's our strategy.
But there are times whether what is available on the M&amp;A environment or such that we will look to buy back the stock.
And so the divesting question is -- it's certainly a factor that we look at.
We recognize that Coffee is 40% of our sales.
On the other side there's synergies when you have leadership in the category so just part of the decision-making process as we look at acquisitions.
So we're not consciously being driven trying to diversify.
It's sort of just naturally happened over the years.
We've been in other situations where it seemed a little heavier and through our transactions it sort of balances itself out over time.
LLC</strong> And then Vince obviously this level of inflation presents of a lot of unknowns.
And I know you're not prepared to comment on fiscal '12 yet but can you tell us at this point in time you expect that you can get growth in your segment profits in Coffee next year? Or maybe to ask the question in another way is there some level of Coffee price inflation that would in your opinion kind of derail your growth model? No.
I mean again our objective is to grow our segment profit each year year-on-year by our strategic objectives and that's what our goals are.
I may add this is Richard.
If you look at the categories that we're in the frequency of purchase in most of our categories is not that often.
And even Coffee which is the most frequent for example jams and jellies people purchase about 3x to 4x a year.
So if the price goes up 10% they're not going to -- not purchase their jam because they're only buying it once every three months.
Coffee is still only about is less than once a month and so it's about 10x a year.
So Coffee could go up but I don't think you're going to stop drinking it if it goes up a couple of dollars a can.
Obviously there's some level that we wouldn't want to go above but I think we're still in a good range.
LLC</strong> And just one quick follow-up if I could.
The price increases that you had taken through the quarter that you just reported I think would have implied about 13% or 14% price growth and the price growth came in higher than that.
I'm wondering was that mix? Or was that more just lower trade spending than maybe you had in the prior year? It's primarily overall mix.
For our next question we go to David Driscoll with Citi Investment Research.
In the past you guys have commented that hedges have often been in advantageous positions relative to the prices that you've announced.
You were pretty clear on that a couple of quarters ago.
Given that you've announced this new 10% price increase can you also say that the green coffee positions you've taken will put you in a favorable position going forward for the next five months? Well not to what we've experienced fiscal year-to-date.
Again we try to be as transparent.
I think you've heard us talk about our position tends to be an average between 18 and 22 weeks.
We tend to be a little longer on some of the specialty coffees.
But again as I mentioned earlier we didn't take the price as soon as our competitor did because we didn't need to.
And then secondly as we're looking at where coffee sits today our current pricing structure would not cover that entirely once we get through our position.
So we would have to look at another change in the first potentially in the first quarter.
Did I answer your question David? Not really.
The question was so basically two quarters ago you had said that you took the 9% price increase and you said that the 9% price increase didn't reflect current spot values.
However you also said at the time that the green coffee hedges that you had in place were favorable such that you would see kind of better-than-average margins.
It's not necessarily where the spot price is it's always where you put your retail price versus your green coffee hedges in the variance between those two.
And it looks to me like basically the way I think about it is that you guys buy your green coffee you set your prices relative to those green coffee positions and usually it's going to be a little bit advantageous.
I suppose that's true in a general sense but as Mark I think pointed out earlier our gross margin percent actually went down in the quarter because we're not necessarily maintaining those margins at a gross profit level.
But again hopefully I'm answering your question.
Well our strategy in up market like this is to protect penny profits and we're going to be doing that hopefully this year and next.
But the margins can be squeezed percentage margins can be squeezed.
This is Tim.
As Richard had said earlier pricing is not the only leverage here.
And we're in this for the long term.
We've made significant steps in terms of restructuring.
We're in the middle of.
We also make significant steps in terms of cost efficiencies and as we have other discretionary spending.
So all of those things come into play.
So I think maybe we sometimes forget those all of us do.
So just keep that in mind.
Was there anything peculiar about the shipment pattern of coffee in the quarter? Just what I'm trying to get a sense of was there anything strange in the year-ago shipment patterns that would make the percentage calculation on coffee shipments hard to interpret? Was there any reason that you might have taken volume forward into Q3 from Q4? No.
Again customers speculate they knew that price increase was coming.
Our team manages those orders very very closely.
This is the same question we got at the end of the first quarter the second quarter and I will just say you can look on a quarter-to-date we're basically down I think 2% and it might fluctuate a little bit.
But we don't allow forward buy.
Now does that say a customer is not loading a little bit? Sure.
But for the most part it's not load.
Now we go to Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
This is Alex sitting in for Chuck.
I got two questions for you on mix.
First as you look broadly across the portfolio what does the change in mix tell you about where the consumer's headed at? Are you seeing some more trading up? Or are you still seeing a lot of interest in promotions and deals? What can you tell us kind of where the consumer's head is at? Alex Steve Oakland.
Yes we do see that.
I mean obviously value is key both for the consumer and the retailer.
The retailer wants the right value items.
They want coffee items or peanut butter items those kinds of things on the front page of their ad.
I think what we proved in the quarter is you don't have to go rock-bottom to make it happen.
You can stack offers.
You can have coupons and consumer offers and advertising as well as price.
What they are shopping some of the and I think Vince spoke to this earlier some of the other channels the margins that club take on basic food items are way below what traditional grocery takes.
And so that provides great value and so those customers who shop at those channels are getting great value and have recognized that.
So I think some of the alternative volume is coming just because those channels are capable of taking lower margins on the business.
I guess I'll look at the other guys for this.
But there's no question that both the retailer and the consumers are still -- value is still key.
Yes I guess one thing we still have is the K-Cup is significant in terms of dollars per EU or per volume.
And so as we settle out on K-Cups we're going to have a favorable mix as we grow that business.
I guess that kind of alludes to my second question on mix then.
As you noted in the press release and on the call here mix was a pretty big benefit to overall coffee sales.
It sounds like K-Cups were a piece of it.
What else is going on in the mix there? And can you talk about what that's doing to profitability of the business? It's Dunkin'.
So as Dunkin' was up I think 8% or something in the quarter and Folgers being down slightly again the net sales dollar value would help drive a favorable mix position and profitability would be in line with or better than corporate or the Coffee margins.
Well and if we look at the Consumer business we typically don't comment on specific fruits and there's a number of variables in that business.
But this particular year it's been a tough year on the grape crop the Concord grape crop.
So our mix has shifted to strawberry.
And as you know we're the largest producer probably globally of strawberry jam and that has affected our business profitably and the consumer’s responded to that.
So the consumer has responded to strawberry jam versus grape jelly at a higher price based on the strength of the brand the strength of the merchandising effort.
We move now to Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
Can I ask about the marketing spending versus promotional spending here? It seems I think you mentioned that you've been trimming the marketing spending a little bit.
As you look forward are you comfortable with the ratio of that spending on the advertising versus promotional front? Or do you think you'll be pushing things in one direction or the other perhaps going out into next year? Alexia this is Paul.
On the Oils and Baking side we really did transition some of the marketing spend to promotional dollars on a price perspective really on the Crisco business primarily just to ensure that we get some of that volume back and we would hope going forward we'd be able to continue our balanced approach on the pricing share of market and profitability.
And then Alexia in the Consumer business I think we published that our marketing spend traditional marketing spend was up 5% maybe equal to volume.
So in those businesses where we think we've got some great new advertising we put some stuff out of the holidays that got us great response and we have plans that we're excited about for next year.
So we don't see that percentage changing.
And in Coffee as we have said before our marketing really isn't down versus the prior year.
In absolute sense it is because we choose to investment spend last year given where green was.
I would like to state though that coupon redemption which is up in sales deducts if you take that into account our marketing for the quarter was basically equal to last year.
But on a going-forward basis I think it's probably at the levels that you're seeing this year we've not cut marketing.
And as a follow-up one of the big themes of 2010 was that a lot of SKU rationalization across the industry.
I think we've been hearing that some of that maybe being reversed at this point.
Can you just comment on whether you're seeing that happen or whether that's actually not a big effect that you're seeing right now? Yes sure.
Let me make a macro statement and then each SBA can chime in.
But it's clear that there was a number of key retailers that have those programs.
First of all we tend to benefit in those because being the number one or two brands that ends up being more shelf space for us even if some of our SKUs have been cut.
But I will say that at least a couple of major retailers have reversed those actions and we have equal to or more SKUs than we might have had when the initiatives were started And I'll now turn it to Paul or Steve.
Yes this is Paul.
I'll just add to that that we don't have -- in some of our portfolio we don't have all the number one brands so we did see a negative impact when that SKU rationalization was taking place and we have seen those SKUs be added back.
And then if we look at the specifically the fruit spread business as you know we have a number of sizes flavors and sugar profiles or sweetness profile and some of those were taken out -- to Vince's comment earlier in most of those retailers we have equal to or more SKUs on the shelf today.
I think the consumers spoke in the end and the consumer wants those items that's why we make them.
And we do a lot of work to make sure those items fit what the consumer wants.
And those retailers who took them out listened to their consumer and we're glad to see them back on the shelf.
I would just add that in Canada we have not seen that reversal that SKU rationalization and the pressure on the amount of items in any given category continued.
There may be a couple of exceptions to that.
But overall I think that that in Canada may be a little different.
We go now to Robert (sic)[Mitchell] Pinheiro with Janney Montgomery Scott.
What's the status and the likelihood of introducing a Dunkin' Donuts K-Cup? As we've said before we're focused on the two brands and we're very pleased with the results of where we are.
So not likely to be in the near term.
You do have the right to introduce -- I mean you sell Dunkin' Coffee at grocery by contract is there something in this contract that precludes you from doing that? A K-Cup for Dunkin'? Yes there are some limitations and we're -- so yes there are some limitations yes.
And then last question is do you view at all Folgers' Red Can in the position to capture trade down in the coffee category? To capture trade down? Yes to capture trade down from higher-priced super premium brands as these coffee prices continue to go up.
There is general inelasticity in the category but there is movement from top to bottom.
Would you anticipate Folgers being in a position to capture just being in sort of the more value segment? Yes I think the answer to that is yes.
But I mean again the gourmet or specialty category continues to grow even in these tougher times.
But there's a couple of segments within Red Can that we are focused on.
One is Black Silk and the other is what we call Special Roast and we put a lot of support behind those.
And both of those brands are growing very very nicely and yet we still have a lot of distribution opportunities for them.
So yes I suppose to answer your question yes but we're certainly not giving up on the growth of the Specialty or Gourmet segment.
I would add that lot of us around here drink Black Silk.
It's one of the best coffees you can find for anywhere regardless of the price and it's doing very very well.
We go next for a follow-up question from David Driscoll with Citi Investment Research.
Just wanted to ask you a question at my conference back in December you made some interesting comments about looking for acquisitions internationally.
Can you give us an update on your thought process on this? How developed is this? And is there really anything on the near-term horizon? Or was this more a very much long-term statement? This is Mark Smucker.
I would say that obviously we wouldn't comment about anything specific but we are very focused on China and we are engaged in China.
We are in the process of just at a very minimal level we have started once again to export some products there and looking to establish some sort of a representative office.
So that does not preclude our interest in having some type of meaningful presence there and as you know those things are sort of hit or miss.
They come and go but we are very engaged.
We have a lot of feelers out in the market and we're looking.
So it really sounds like quite a serious effort on your part.
Is that a fair statement? This is Richard.
Yes this is serious.
We think that that's some place we need to be and the timing on international is long term.
But it's certainly -- we're spending management time and dollars.
We take our follow-up now from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
You mentioned that K-Cups are doing extremely well right now but there's a potential roadblock ahead that I wanted to ask about and that's Green Mountain's Keurig patent and patents.
What's your understanding of what happens to the category the single-serve category when that patent expires? Do you expect the entry of competitors' products into the category? Or maybe it's not the right way to think about it? Ken I don't know that we would comment on that.
We've worked with Green Mountain and we know where they are protected.
They feel very very comfortable with where they're protected.
There is a private label entry as we speak.
But again we evaluated all of that when we got together with the folks at Green Mountain and feel very comfortable where we are.
So that's probably a better question for them.
Ladies and gentlemen that's all the time we have for questions.
Gentlemen I'll turn the conference back over to you to conclude.
Well thank you for your interest and time for participating.
And a number of us look forward to seeing hopefully many of you down at CAGNY next week.
Thanks so much.
Ladies and gentlemen if you wish to access the rebroadcast after this live call you may do so by dialing 1 (888) 203-1112 or 1 719-0820 with a pass code of 4716986 or by accessing the website for a downloadable MP3 format.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to The J.M.
Smucker Company's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all participants are in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference over to Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Mark Belgya.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us.
On the call from the company are Tim Smucker Chairman of the Board and Co-CEO; and Richard Smucker Executive Chairman and Co-CEO.
Also joining us and reflecting their new titles that became effective on May 1 are Vince Byrd President and Chief Operating Officer; Steve Oakland President International Foodservice and Natural Foods; Mark Smucker President U.S.
Retail Coffee; and Paul Smucker Wagstaff President U.S.
Retail Consumer Foods.
After this brief introduction I will turn the call over to Tim for an overview of the year.
I will then review the financial results for the quarter and Richard will provide our outlook for 2012 and closing remarks.
At the conclusion of these comments we will be available to answer your questions.
Questions specific to one of the business segments will generally be addressed by the president responsible for managing that business in 2011.
If you've not seen our press release it is available on our website at smuckers.com.
A replay of this call is available on the website.
If you have any follow-up questions or comments after today's call please feel free to contact me or Sonal Robinson Vice President of Investor Relations.
During the call today our team may make forward-looking statements that reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates and actual results may differ materially due to risks and uncertainties.
I invite you to read the full disclosure statement in the press release concerning such forward-looking statements.
I also want to remind you that the company uses non-GAAP results for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.
Additional discussion on non-GAAP information is also detailed in our press release located on our website.
I will now turn the call over to Tim.
Thank you Mark and good morning everyone and it's great to have you join us this morning.
Let me begin by summarizing some of the key highlights of this past fiscal year.
As we continue our purpose of bringing families together to share memorable meals and moments we delivered another year of record sales and earnings.
These results were achieved against the backdrop of a challenging economic environment.
Sales grew 5% to $4.8 billion while non-GAAP earnings per share increased 7% to $4.69.
Our total Coffee Business continued its strong performance with sales growth of 14% for the year.
Innovation contributed significantly to the company's growth including new products such as Folgers Gourmet Selections and Millstone brand K-Cups Jif Natural Dunkin' Donuts seasonal varieties and Pillsbury sugar-free baking products.
We successfully managed through a volatile commodity cost environment demonstrating the strength of our brands and our ability to implement.
Significant progress was made on the supply chain restructuring project as key milestones and cost savings targeted for 2011 were achieved.
Demonstrating our commitment to enhancing shareholder value we repurchased 5.7 million common shares representing over 4% of shares outstanding.
Also benefiting from 2 increases in the quarterly dividend rate dividends paid per share increased by a total of 17% for the fiscal year.
In March we announced changes to our executive management structure that are consistent with our long-term succession plans and the further development of leadership.
And lastly in May we acquired the coffee brand and business operations of Rowland Coffee Roasters including its leading brand Cafe Bustelo and Cafe Pilon.
With that let me provide a few comments on each of our business segments starting with the Coffee segment which realized another strong year.
Sales and segment profit for 2011 grew 14% and 11% respectively driven by the Folgers and Dunkin' Donuts brands along with the K-Cups product launch.
Dunkin' Donuts packaged coffee continued to gain market share.
Volume was up 6% for the year and sales reached nearly $300 million.
We expect volume growth for the brand to continue in 2012.
Our investments in the coffee brands remain robust supported by a full mix of marketing programs including several new commercials which aired during the year.
New product launches contributed significantly to Coffee's organic growth in 2011 including the rollout of K-Cups.
The K-Cup product line contributed 3% to Coffee sales for the year despite a September launch and we remain excited about future growth opportunities.
Lastly we successfully navigated through a year where green coffee costs reached a new 34-year high.
While significant price increases were executed during the year to offset these higher costs we were encouraged Coffee volume was down only slightly for the year reflecting our belief of the category's ability to withstand elevated prices.
Before I turn to the other segment let me briefly comment on the Rowland Coffee acquisition and why this addition is a good strategic fit for our company.
Cafe Bustelo and Cafe Pilon are both leading Hispanic brands with distribution concentrated in the Northeastern U.S.
and Southern Florida.
The addition of these brands provide an exciting opportunity to establish a strong presence in coffee with Hispanic consumers in the U.S.
allowing us to meet the needs of the fastest-growing demographic in the country.
While preserving the rich heritage of the Cafe Bustelo and Cafe Pilon brands we believe they will benefit from our go-to-market strategy strong national presence and increased marketing support as we look to expand distribution into other key Hispanic markets.
Overall we anticipate these brands will be a great complement to our existing portfolio.
Turning to the Consumer segment.
The business continued its steady growth during the year gaining market share in all key categories.
Volume sales and segment profit were all up excluding the impact of divestitures.
Volume gains in the fruit spreads category were supported by investments in advertising and product innovation including our Smucker's Orchard's Finest offering.
Our volume in the peanut butter category grew by 5% in 2011 adding to the growth we have achieved since acquiring the Jif business in June of 2002.
The increase was led by the strong performance of Jif Natural which more than doubled its volume from the prior year and continued to drive category growth.
Looking forward a price increase on peanut butter was passed through last month to cover incremental costs associated with the short peanut crop of 2010.
We remain well positioned to support the continued growth of both core and new products as we enter into fiscal 2012.
In the Oils &amp; Baking segment Crisco realized a 5% volume gain for the year following our efforts to narrow the price gap on shelves.
In Baking although the aggressive promotional environment presented a number of challenges throughout the year the Pillsbury brand concluded 2011 with a strong fourth quarter.
Finally the Special Markets segment completed a strong year with sales and segment profit up across all business areas.
In Canada we gained market share in those key categories with sales growth that was led by the strong performance of Folgers Coffee.
Our U.S.
Foodservice business grew sales and volume during the year despite a continuing decline in the overall industry reflecting gains in Folgers Coffee and Smucker's Uncrustables.
Lastly our Natural Foods and International businesses performed well for the year with both achieving mid-single digit volume growth.
In summary the company achieved another year of strong sales and earnings.
Our ongoing success would not be possible without the dedication of our talented employees and their commitment to our strategy.
We thank each and every one of them for their continuing efforts.
Before turning the call back to Mark I would like to make a few comments about the leadership announcements we made early in March.
As you may know we announced several executive appointments that are consistent with the company's history of long-term succession planning and the development of leadership to meet the current and future needs of our business and the constituents that we serve.
Effective May 1 Vince Byrd assumed the role of President and Chief Operating Officer with responsibility for the company's U.S.
Retail businesses.
Mark Smucker assumed the role of President U.S.
Retail Coffee; and Paul Smucker Wagstaff is the President U.S.
Retail Consumer Foods which represents the combination of the previous Consumer and Oils &amp; Baking business areas.
Both Mark and Paul report to Vince.
Steve Oakland has assumed responsibility for International Foodservice and Natural Foods.
This leadership team clearly embodies the values that have contributed to our success allowing us to deliver consistent long-term results.
In addition to these changes effective August 16 the day prior to our Annual Shareholders Meeting Richard Smucker will become the sole Chief Executive Officer of the company.
I will continue to serve the company as the Chairman of the Board and my efforts will be focused on the Board of Directors corporate strategy succession planning providing support as we pursue growth in China and continuing as an ambassador for our culture with all of our constituents.
As this will be my last earnings call serving as the role of Co-CEO please accept my sincere thanks and appreciation for your interest and support of our company.
While I'm sure you would think maybe I'm a little biased I believe that we have a special organization with an exceptionally talented team that I am privileged to serve with and have been for the last 43 years.
It's been a particular honor to serve in this role with Richard my brother and I am confident as Richard always says the best is yet to come.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mark.
Thank you Tim.
Let me begin by summarizing a few highlights from the fourth quarter.
Sales and volume were up with contributions from many of our key brands.
Operating income excluding charges grew 4% while comparability between years has been impacted by a number of one-off items including a gain on divestiture in 2010 and income taxes.
We are pleased with our fourth quarter results.
Net sales increased $118 million or 11% primarily reflecting the impact of pricing taken during the year.
Volume contributed 2% of the sales growth with gains realized by the majority of our brands including Pillsbury Jif and Folgers.
The impact of sales mix and foreign exchange was also favorable.
GAAP earnings per share were $0.82 this quarter and $1.01 in the fourth quarter of last year including restructuring and merger and integration costs which I will refer to as special project costs.
Excluding these charges earnings per share were $1 this quarter and $1.07 in last year's fourth quarter.
Operating income excluding special project costs increased $7 million for the quarter reflecting an increase in gross profit and a decline in SG&amp;A expenses due to lower marketing.
Higher raw material costs were primarily driven by green coffee and soybean oil.
Price increases taken earlier in the year offset higher costs but did not result in gross margin gain.
Unrealized mark-to-market adjustments on commodity instruments were not material for the quarter.
The effective income tax rate for the quarter was 36.7% compared to a low 27.9% in the prior year.
The effective tax rate for the full year increased from 32.4% in 2010 to 33.1%.
The increase in both the fourth quarter and full year rates reflect higher current and deferred state income taxes and reduced tax benefits associated with our Canadian operations partially offset by an increased benefit related to the domestic manufacturing deduction.
Let me now provide a few more details on our reportable segment starting with U.S.
Retail Coffee.
Net sales increased 21% in the quarter reflecting price increases taken during the fiscal year partially offset by higher spending in support of Easter promotional period.
Volume increased 3% for Folgers and offset a low double-digit decline in the Dunkin' Donuts brand.
While Dunkin' Donuts was down this compares to a strong 2010 fourth quarter where volume was up over 20%.
Dunkin' Donuts sales for the year were up 18%.
K-Cup products contributed approximately 5% to segment sales for the quarter.
Coffee segment profit increased 8% with pricing taken during the year more than offsetting higher green coffee costs.
Additionally marketing expense decreased for the quarter as advertising was at more typical levels in the current year while record incremental investments were made in the prior year.
Although down from the prior year fourth quarter 2011 marketing expense was comparable to each of the first 3 quarters of this fiscal year.
In the U.S.
Retail Consumer segment net sales were flat to the prior year excluding the impact of divestitures.
Volume was up 2% offset by a 5% price decrease on peanut butter taken in the first quarter.
Our peanut butter category was up 8% in volume for the quarter.
Jif benefited from incremental volume in the club channel along with the continued growth of Jif Natural.
The strong peanut butter performance in the quarter comes on top of a 13% volume increase in last year's fourth quarter.
Segment profit decreased 7% as the prior year included a $13 million gain on a divestiture of potato products.
Marketing expense and supply chain costs were lower in the quarter.
Segment margin declined from 30.5% in last year's fourth quarter to 28.9% this year but was up after excluding the 480 basis point impact from the prior year's gain.
Turning to the U.S.
Retail Oils and Baking segment.
Net sales and volume for the quarter increased 11% and 6% respectively.
Increased volume was driven by Pillsbury baking mixes and frosting reversing the trend of the last several quarters along with gains in Crisco oil and milk.
Net pricing and a favorable sales mix also contributed to the higher sales.
Segment profit increased 3% as higher costs for certain commodities and freight were more than offset by pricing and lower marketing in the current quarter.
The prior year quarter also included the impact of asset write-offs.
Segment margin decreased 80 basis points to 12%.
And finally net sales in Special Markets segment grew 8% with pricing sales mix and foreign exchange all contributing favorably.
Volume for the quarter decreased 4% as double-digit increases in Bick's pickles and Folgers Coffee in Canada were more than offset by declines in the Canadian baking brand and the Natural Foods business.
Segment profit grew 11% in the quarter with segment margin increasing 70 basis points to 17.9%.
The impact of price increases sales mix and improved profitability of Smucker's Uncrustables following the consolidation of manufacturing operations more than offset higher raw material costs and an increase in marketing expenses in Canada.
The prior year quarter also included the impact of asset write-offs.
Lastly regarding segment let me briefly comment on the reporting impact of the management change that Tim spoke to.
Effective in the first quarter of 2012 we will have 3 reportable segments reflecting our new management structure.
U.S.
Retail Coffee U.S.
Retail Consumer Foods and Special Markets which has been renamed International Foodservice and Natural Foods.
I will conclude with a few comments on cash and cash flow.
We ended the year with $320 million in cash on hand including approximately $110 million in Canada that currently cannot be repatriated in a tax-efficient manner.
Subsequent to year end the acquisition of the Rowland Coffee Roasters business was financed with available cash on hand and $180 million in borrowings under our $600 million revolving credit facility.
Anticipating additional working capital needs our current borrowings on the revolver totaled $240 million at an average rate of 1.5%.
With the normal build in inventory during the first half of the fiscal year we expect to draw additional funds on the revolver but anticipate paying down all revolver borrowings by the end of the fiscal year.
Cash provided by operations for the full year was $392 million reflecting a slight net use of cash in the fourth quarter.
This represented a decrease in cash from operations from the prior year resulting primarily from significantly higher working capital needs compared to last year.
Specific to the fourth quarter the impact of commodity cost increases notably green coffee on higher inventory levels and increased trade receivable balances due to the timing of the Easter holiday which occurred in late April contributed to the increase in working capital requirements.
2011 capital expenditures were $180 million slightly ahead of our third quarter estimates.
Included in CapEx was approximately $40 million related to the restructuring project.
Free cash flow for the year of $211 million was lower than anticipated -- than estimated at the end of the third quarter due to the significant working capital requirements in the fourth quarter.
As expected cash collections in May related to the year-end trade receivable balances have been strong.
During the fourth quarter 2 million common shares were repurchased utilizing approximately $142 million of cash on hand.
Year-to-date we repurchased 5.7 million shares using over $380 million in cash.
Share repurchase activity contributed approximately $0.03 to fourth quarter earnings per share.
At April 30 approximately 500 000 shares remain available for repurchase under the current 10b5-1 plan while an additional 2.5 million shares remain available under previous board authorization.
Additional components affecting cash flow in 2012 include capital expenditures of approximately $250 million to $275 million of which approximately $150 million relates to the restructuring project; depreciation and amortization of approximately $195 million excluding special project costs.
Share-based compensation expense is not reflected in this amount; dividends of approximately $200 million based on current rate and shares outstanding; and finally total special project costs of approximately $100 million of which $60 million to $65 million are cash related.
The remaining noncash charges primarily represent accelerated depreciation.
I would now like to turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Mark and good morning everyone.
After achieving another year of strong financial results we remain confident in our ability to execute our long-term strategy while focusing on key initiatives that are critical to continuing our momentum into 2012.
Before providing our financial outlook for 2012 let me highlight some of the priorities as we enter the new year.
First we remain committed to growing the business with contributions from all 3 of our growth drivers: new products market share gains and acquisitions.
We continue to invest in our brands and are encouraged by our product launches and marketing initiatives planned for the year.
Second while managing through the volatility in commodity cost environment we remain -- the primary focus areas are as follows.
We are incurring significantly higher costs in 2012 for nearly all of our key commodities with the largest increases in coffee soybean oil flour and peanuts.
As a result we currently estimate year-over-year increases in cost of goods sold of approximately 25% excluding the addition of Rowland Coffee.
To offset higher costs we have utilized a combination of price increases and cost saving initiatives to protect profit dollars recognizing that margin percentages will decline.
Third we expect to make significant progress on the supply chain restructuring initiatives.
During 2011 the Sherman Texas coffee facility was closed while the remaining operations at the Kansas City coffee facility and the Canadian condiments facility are scheduled to conclude over the next year.
In addition the construction of our new fruit spreads manufacturing facility in Orrville Ohio is well underway with initial production in the new plant scheduled for the summer of 2012.
We recognize the impact on the affected employees and we thank them for their support.
Looking ahead all key milestones and targeted cost savings remain on track.
And finally achieving a seamless integration of the recently acquired Rowland Coffee business will be a key priority.
We expect to integrate all customer-facing activities including ordering invoicing and distribution by the end of our second quarter.
Turning now to our guidance for 2012.
Net sales are expected to increase approximately 20% over the prior year.
Price increases and the recently acquired Rowland Coffee brands will be the primary drivers.
In response to higher raw material costs effective in May we took pricing in a number of key categories including coffee peanut butter fruit spreads oils and various baking products.
The full year impact of the price increases taken last year will also be realized in 2012.
While consumers will ultimately determine their response to our pricing actions their past acceptance gives us confidence that volume levels will be similar to last year.
We expect non-GAAP income per diluted share in the range of $5 to $5.15 resulting in growth that is in line with our 8% plus long-term strategic growth objective.
Our guidance includes the addition of the Rowland Coffee acquisition and assumes weighted average shares outstanding of approximately 114 million.
Excluding amortization of expense of approximately $0.50 a share our 2012 forecast would be $5.50 to $5.65 per share.
Free cash flow is expected to be approximately $450 million reflecting a record level of capital expenditures.
Additional assumptions for 2012 estimates include the following: an increase in SD&amp;A of approximately 10% including the addition of Rowland Coffee; interest expense of approximately $60 million; and finally the effective tax rate is anticipated to be 33% to 33.5%.
Although we provide annual guidance the company remains focused on our long-term strategic growth objectives.
With our 2011 results we are pleased to report that our 10-year compounded annual growth rates are 23% for sales and 14% for earnings per share clearly exceeding the 6% sales and 8% plus earnings long-term growth rate targets.
Over the same period our total shareholder return assuming dividends reinvested has averaged 14% per year.
So in summary we delivered another year of strong sales and earnings.
Second over $570 million was used for dividends and share repurchases demonstrating our commitment to enhance shareholder value.
Third while commodity cost volatility is expected to continue we remain confident in the strength of our brands and our team's ability to execute.
Fourth we are pleased to provide 2012 guidance that reflects growth in sales earnings and cash flow.
Fifth our strategy and the efforts of our dedicated employees have positioned us well for the long-term growth.
Lastly as you know our company is unique in being led by 4 generations of family leadership and having only 5 CEOs in 114 years.
Continuity of leadership has been a primary factor behind our company's success and remains a key element of our succession planning activities.
The organizational changes described by Tim earlier reinforce our commitment to maintain our company's heritage and unique culture while continuing to support the long-term interest of our constituents our consumers customers employees suppliers communities and our shareholders.
It's been an honor to serve as Co-CEO with Tim.
He has been instrumental to the growth that we have achieved and the special culture that has been nurtured.
Tim has played a leadership role throughout the food industry and within the communities we serve.
While our daily roles will be changing Tim and I will continue to work together to further advance the company build our brands and serve our constituents.
I'm looking forward to serving as CEO with our talented leadership team and the best employees in the industry.
Echoing Tim's comment the best is yet to come.
Well thank you very much for your time today.
And at this point we'd be happy to answer any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Eric Katzman from Deutsche Bank.
I guess my 2 questions.
First one given the amount of pricing that you have kind of how should we think about the -- I know you don't like to talk about the quarters but how should we think about the quarterly flow of the year with the pricing? And I mean is that -- I mean it sounds like it's going to be an acceleration as we kind of progress through the year based on how you've lifted prices.
And then the second is can you talk a little bit more about peanut butter and the I guess it was like a 20% or so price increase that Unilever put through and kind of how you're positioned given such a short crop in terms of just actually producing the amount of jars that you're going to need? Eric this is Vince.
I'll take the first question and Steve will take the peanut butter question specifically.
But I think as mentioned in the script the majority of our pricing was taken through last fiscal year through '11.
But then we announced virtually every product category had yet another round of price increases that will take effect in the first quarter at various stages.
So from a quarterly perspective I would say that you'll see more pricing actions take effect in the second through the fourth quarter than you will in the first quarter.
Yes Eric this is Mark Belgya.
The other thing would be of course we will lap the -- one of the coffee increases in February that we took a double digit one.
So there you'll start seeing some moderation in the fourth quarter.
Eric Steve Oakland.
I'll comment on the peanut butter business and the actions that we've taken and what's going on in the industry.
As you know we are the largest peanut buyer right globally.
And so as we work with those key suppliers and shellers it became evident to us very early on that this year's peanut crop was short frankly.
And so as we worked with them we started to prepare our Lexington facility and prepare our supply chain to assure we can continue the growth of that business.
And if you look at that business grew last year by 5%.
Frankly it grew the year before by a little more than that.
So we anticipate that business growing again this year.
So we've discontinued and there's been some writing about this that maybe was a little misunderstood.
But we discontinued some tiny items that were complex and that gave that facility even more capacity so that it could deal with a short crop.
So if you combine those efforts with frankly our position we feel great about our key promotional periods of back-to-school fall bake.
Our price increase that we took that went into effect just last month is about half what some of the competitors that you listed mentioned.
But we think it's adequate to cover our needs and the actions that we've done are going to get us through another great year on Jif.
Remember we also took a 5% price decline that the market didn't take a year ago.
So the Jif business continues to grow and we get a lot of that business on regular everyday shelf turns.
And we think that's very very healthy.
So keeping that price close giving the consumer value every day not just on deep deals has been the success of that business and we intend to continue it.
Moving on we'll take the next question from Farha Aslam from Stephens Inc.
And then my 2 questions.
First of all could you just detail for us the level of pricing in each of the categories that you took effective for the first quarter? And my follow-up would be this is the first we actually get to talk to you about the Rowland Coffee acquisition.
You've highlighted that sales are about $110 million for that business.
Could you share with us the EBITDA that business produces and roughly what that growth rate of EBITDA is? So we'll take the pricing question first Farha.
On coffee we announced the price increase in May of around 10% to 11%.
On oils it was about 8%.
On baking it was a range between 4% and actually 20%.
On milk 5% to 10%.
On peanut butter it was 8% to 10%.
Fruit spreads 5%.
Our pancake mix and toppings businesses went up 5% as well.
Great.
That's helpful.
And then Rowland? Farha this is Mark Belgya.
We have not disclosed the EBITDA numbers but we did put in our release in year one our first full year would be a $0.05 of earnings.
And that number will increase in a few years as we consolidate the operations into our New Orleans facility and move much closer to the rest of the company.
But right now because of the fact that we're running the operation separately it's a little bit under the corporate average.
Farha maybe we could provide a little more color on Rowland.
Mark do you want to handle that? Sure.
Hi Farha this is Mark Smucker.
Again we would say that the Rowland acquisition obviously is very complimentary to the business and one of the key points that it's a very unique consumer.
And it's typically a consumer or a set of consumers that does not consume our mainstream products across a number of different Hispanic demographics.
And so as you may know that business is focused predominately in the northeast and Florida and because of that unique consumer base we think it's critical that we maintain the product integrity and ensure that that brand and that product taste profile doesn't change as we integrate the business.
So we do think however there's going to be significant opportunity for growth across a number of Hispanic demographics nationally.
And remember too that we've only owned the business for about 3 weeks and so we're right now very focused on learning the business and integrating that business.
And we only closed on May 16.
So again we remain very confident that we can grow that business and it fits a very unique niche in the consumer base.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Chuck Cerankosky from Northcoast Research.
Mark could you talk a little bit where the depreciation restructuring line came from in the operating activities? Is that mainly tied to the Sherman Texas plant? Well the charges -- yes Chuck most of the charges we've had during the year it's deceleration on all the plants that are closing but clearly with Sherman having the shortest time period the majority or at least the large percentage of the noncash charge would be affiliated with that.
But the other plants are also -- we're accelerating depreciation on those as well.
All right.
And then a bigger picture question.
Somebody mentioned that you felt the higher prices of coffee that you've gone to on the shelf are being reasonably well accepted by the consumer.
I would imagine oils are at the other extreme when you're raising prices.
Can you talk about what sort of in the middle how consumers are reacting to these price increases? And are you trying to price to maintain a certain level of volume growth or are you trying to simply pass through costs? Chuck this is Vince.
Well first of all as you know it's unprecedented times across all commodities.
And I think as Jim or Richard mentioned in their formal remarks we're trying to do everything we can to delay or have other costs offsets to ultimately pricing decisions.
Also as mentioned we are though passing on pretty much a $0.01 per $0.01 type pricing as opposed to increasing margin percentages.
They have been accepted pretty much from the trade.
They have not all been reflected of course on the shelves.
So the consumer has not seen the full impact of our pricing actions most -- and particularly those that we did announce over the last month or so.
But again for the most part we feel our products and brands will be able to withstand the pricing actions we've taken.
This Paul Wagstaff.
The only thing I would like to add to that is when we think about the oil pricing our competitors have also taken the price up to similar amounts.
So we feel that on shelf we're going to be in pretty good position.
And so far we have seen a significant drop-off in volume.
This is Richard.
I might just add 2 comments.
One is as Paul mentioned our competitors have all taken these price increases also so we are on a level playing field.
We just believe that we have to play harder.
And second is that the consumer for example on coffee still a cost per serving on coffee is very low.
It's still only $0.05 or $0.06 a serving.
So even if it goes up to $0.07 a serving it's still going to be a pretty good bargain and that's true in most of the products that we are involved in.
That's a great point.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Has the tone of the conversation changed much with the retailers about pricing? It sounds from what you're saying like it hasn't.
But in the last week a couple of retailers Wal-Mart Dollar General Fresh Market have really come out and said they're pushing back or they're not taking pricing.
And it seems like there's been a shift in their tone.
I'm wondering if in your conversations with them they've pushed back any farther than usual or whether anything has really changed there that maybe we could be aware about.
Yes Ken I think the answer is yes.
Clearly they are very concerned about their customers and concerned about price points.
And so yes I think those conversations are properly harder than maybe what they had been.
And also we have to provide more data or justification sometimes to ensure that we're not passing on more than maybe what's clearly justified.
But again for the -- we're able to get our price increases through.
But I think it goes back to our credibility and our transparency of our pricing that we have with our customers whether we move up or down.
And so we've earned that over the years and I think that we're well regarded in the industry.
And then separately the Rowland amortization or total amortization next year if we're trying to figure out cash earnings.
Can you remind me again what the guidance is for amortization next year versus this year? I think you've touched on it but I wanted to make it clear.
Ken this is Mark.
I think it was in the scripted comments it's $0.50 a share roughly.
Before it was around $0.45 -- $0.73.
So it's about $7 million or $8 million specific to Rowland.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Jon Andersen William Blair.
I just had a question on -- first question on marketing versus promotional spending.
It sounds like maybe reallocated somewhat towards promotional spending in the fourth quarter.
At this point are you happy kind of with the mix of marketing versus promo? And do you expect that to change next year? I think we'll do that by segment but we'll start with Coffee.
This year's fourth quarter was different from last year.
I think you may recall that we almost doubled our marketing budget in last year's fourth quarter and we actually reduced our trade spend last year.
This year was more normal on a going forward basis and that's what we'll see I think going forward into fiscal '12.
Although marketing was lower this year in our fourth quarter versus last year it was actually higher than the 2 previous fourth quarters.
So we continue to invest in the brands.
We did increase a little of the trade this year versus last year because we wanted to ensure that we delivered a very strong Easter promotional period.
Yes this is Paul.
Regarding the oils and baking side of the business we did want to make sure that we did have a strong Eastern time period.
And we did take some of our marketing and really put it towards the promotion -- price promotion and felt that we did have a very good time period a good fourth quarter.
And Steve Oakland with the consumer numbers.
As we reported we had a very strong volumes in the fourth quarter.
Peanut butter up 8%; fruit spreads up.
So our year-to-date marketing was flat.
We did postpone a few activities because we knew what was happening in the peanut butter category.
We knew we had very strong bookings on that business and we didn't want that to be any stronger frankly putting more pressure on that business.
So some of the Jif Natural things some of those Jif To Go things went into the next year.
So marketing for the year was flat but fourth quarter it was prudent to maybe postpone a few activities.
That's helpful.
Just one last one on kind of the Rowland acquisition.
Is there any more color you might be able to provide on both the timing of top line opportunities such as distribution expansion or -- and also on the cost side kind of consolidation into New Orleans? This is Mark Smucker.
As you know we're still integrating the business and learning it.
And as I think in the scripted comments we mentioned that we will be integrating the customer-facing activities in the next several months.
But we do expect that in the second and third quarters we will be putting some efforts against increasing that distribution.
So realistically flowing through our P&amp;L you would probably start to see some growth I would say in this third quarter.
Moving on we'll take our next question from David Driscoll Citi Investment Research.
Wanted to start off in the Coffee.
Can you just talk a little bit about the implications of current green coffee prices? So you mentioned in your prepared comments the 34-year highs.
Of course we've come off those highs now and as the curve -- it's different than anything that we've seen for many months now where it only did basically just go straight up.
I don't know who wants to answer this one but would love to hear your thoughts on how this evolves going forward.
Sure David.
This is Vince.
Basically for the fourth quarter our costs were up nearly 50% if you compare to the prior year.
There's been tremendous volatility and in fact it's traded in the last 3 weeks about $0.60 or over 25% change.
I would just say from where our current position is and we're public that we're typically 18 to 22 weeks.
And based on where the market is today we're in a range that we're comfortable with our pricing.
It's very difficult of course to predict what the market will do going forward.
But I think a lot just depends upon the world events and the flow of money.
You've heard us say before that we don't think it's driven by the fundamentals or some issues going on in Brazil and Colombia we've discussed.
But it's not driven necessarily by supply and demand as much as it is financial markets.
But we feel we're in a good position as we sit today.
That's very helpful.
You made comments just a moment ago I think on marketing spend for the fourth quarter.
I might have missed it but did you say what your expectation was for fiscal '12? David it's Mark Belgya.
We did not but I think again it was in our stated scripted comments that our SD&amp;A is going to be up next year.
And we're going to -- although clearly marketing won't be up to match the top line growth it will be low double-digits as a company.
So marketing spend up low double-digits? Yes.
And then final question.
Just productivity savings can you guys quantify that for F '12? Yes.
Just to refresh everyone's memory our restructuring project including everything that's been discussed previously including Canada will ultimately be about $70 million in fiscal 2015.
That will be the first year that we have a full year of benefits.
And we've tried to direct everyone that it's kind of a stair-step approach that ties into the construction projects and the closing of the plant.
So in fiscal 2012 we would expect about $25 million in total savings to be reflected in the P&amp;L.
We'll take our next question from Scott Mushkin from Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> This is Mike Otway in for Scott.
I was wondering if you could just delve into the baking business a little bit.
Volumes improved quite nicely relative to last quarter on a sequential basis.
Maybe could you comment on what's changed outside of Easter including Easter? And then more broadly speaking could you give us an update on where you see the trends competitively and with that business heading into fiscal '12? Yes Mike this is Paul Wagstaff.
Just stepping back on the baking business when we started out the year it's been a tough year overall.
Competitive pressures on the disruptive pricing has been significant but we started out the last -- past year with one of our key retailers really eliminating us from part of the key promotional time period.
And so as we moved into the fourth quarter we were able to gain some of that promotional business back from a couple of the retailers.
And we really were able to pass some of the pricings.
We took some of our marketing and pushed into some pricing and key promotions.
And really we grew the business by about 15% fourth quarter.
So we felt very good about that.
Going into this upcoming year we are still seeing the competitive pressure exist in the marketplace.
That being said we've already locked in a few key retailers for the fall bake time period and I would say we feel optimistic that should be a good year.
All things being considered we still know there's going to be some disruptive pricing out there.
But we feel pretty good.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And then maybe this one is for Mark.
Just kind of following up on some of the other questions on the supply chain.
Could you give us a sense for the cadence of costs on the cost side this year spread more evenly or weighted to any one quarter in particular? No I don't think that -- I don't think I would give any specific quarter any weighting.
Obviously the costs that we've priced to have all occurred.
So it would be pretty even across the 4 quarters.
This is Richard.
But I'm not sure of the question but if the question relates to pricing versus where the costs are associated with we've -- if commodity costs remained where they are today we've taken all the pricing we need to take.
No one knows what's going to happen on commodity costs but we're in pretty good shape going into the year.
I think also -- I maybe misunderstood the question sorry.
Are you talking about the cadence of the restructuring costs or benefits? Inc.</strong> The supply chain project costs and if there was any -- if they are more evenly weighted throughout this year on a quarterly basis.
Yes they're fairly evenly weighted particularly on the noncash side because the depreciation is monthly.
The only times you'll see a little bit of cash spike is when we do get around to incurring some of the cash charges.
But I think for your modeling purposes an even cadence across the quarters is probably reasonably fair.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Jane Gelfand from Barclays Capital.
A quick question for you just regarding Dunkin' Donuts.
I realize there's a really tough comp in the year-ago period and so some of that decline makes sense but we all know that there's lots of kind of moving parts such as the premium coffee subsegment in general.
So you've got the Starbucks brand being taken back at retail by Starbucks and Kraft is pushing a different premium coffee strategy.
So I'm just curious more about kind of broader observations.
How is that competitive environment? I know that there have been kind of flareups over the past year.
And how do you feel going into fiscal '12? Jane this is Mark Smucker.
I'll start.
Basically although the Dunkin' brand was down in the quarter we still feel very good about its growth potential.
Essentially in the quarter there was some promotional activity in the prior fourth quarter that did not reoccur this past fourth quarter.
And so that was the primary driver for Dunkin' being down.
But as we go forward we think the brand has great legs and that there is still some opportunity in distribution and also some opportunity in new products to continue to grow that brand.
So overall I think over the course of this next fiscal year we would continue to see growth on that brand.
And then in terms of just the kind of the dynamics in general are you seeing any disruption as the brands shift hands or anything like that? No there's been no fundamental change if you're speaking specifically to the specialty coffees.
Obviously we have very high regard for Starbucks and taking over the ownership of their brand at retail.
Again though there's been no fundamental shift other than of course the pricing price points that we're all now facing versus where we were a year ago.
Perfect.
And then just -- maybe just a question on the EPS range for fiscal '12.
It's a little bit wider than I think you've usually gone.
I realize it's a tough environment.
But as I kind of listen to some of the moving parts for next year it seems like pricing has more or less caught up to where it should be given the cost situation.
You've got a decent read on elasticity being maybe even a little bit better than you anticipated.
So as I think about getting from $5 to $5.15 I know that there was a $0.10 charge last year you've got some buyback working to your advantage and of course the accretion from the deal.
So what's the swing factor that can kind of help us bridge why $5 might even be in question versus the higher end of the range? Jane this is Mark Belgya.
I'll start and then if anyone wants to jump in.
I guess first of all in terms of the range itself it is a $0.10 wider that I think we've done in the last couple of years.
Obviously the EPS amount grows just percentage-wise the range will grow a little bit.
But more specifically importantly around what could drive it to the lower end of that.
Everything you mentioned -- clearly we have been hitting on.
We talked about the savings around the restructuring.
Obviously there are savings associated on EPS in terms -- or benefits of the EPS in the share buyback.
The impairment charge is a nonrecurring charge and all of that would help support the high end of the range.
As we've said several times this morning though the consumer still has to see the on-shelf pricing.
There's a lot of volatility.
And when you talk about the 25% increase in cost the 20% top line growth those are somewhat staggering numbers we feel confident.
But if you are looking for something that would point us to the lower end of that range just some of the uncertainty around that.
And clearly as the year progresses we'll have a better view and add more site to that.
But we felt at this point in the year it was appropriate to recognize at least some of that uncertainty in our range.
That makes sense.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Alexia Howard Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Can I ask about what's going on in measured versus non-measured channels? It looks as though the coffee volumes were very strong in the data that we saw I think about 8% up in the quarter but the reported numbers were flat.
And so that suggests that non-measured channels it was down quite a bit.
Can you just talk a little bit about the dynamics there? Sure.
I'll take coffee.
In a macro sense again you have to be careful about how much is even recognized as measured versus non-measured and we've said that many many times.
So although it's an indicator it is not necessarily a full read of our business.
I would also say that majority of the Dunkin' decline might have been -- or was in non-measured channels.
So that's the primary driver from that perspective.
But overall I would say for fiscal year '11 clearly there's been some shifting of our volume to the alternative channels group whether it'd be club mask dollar channels et cetera.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And then just a quick follow-up or a broader strategic question.
At the CAGNY conference in February I think you mentioned that you were reviewing options for entering emerging markets particularly China.
I noticed in the press release this morning I think you reiterated the focus on North America.
Where are you at in that decision making process at the moment? Is it still something you're exploring or are you refocusing on the North American opportunities? Alexia Steve Oakland.
As we look forward to China obviously you just can't ignore that market.
It's such a fast-growing middle class and the demographics -- the western retail practices and everything are just booming there.
So we have been studying that market for some period of time.
We're starting to understand categories.
We're starting to understand the consumer.
We started to add some people to our team that are both in China and here that have spent a lot of time managing similar product businesses in China.
So I think we want to enter that market.
We want to do it right and we're trying to put the building blocks in place to do that and I think we're well on our way.
And I think -- I'd just mention as we were at CAGNY nothing has changed from that strategy.
Our shift is the same as we're still focused on North America but China is an area of keen interest for us.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Judy Hong Goldman Sachs.
A couple of questions.
First just on the K-Cup contribution.
I think you said in the quarter it was 5% contribution.
In Q3 I think it was up -- it was about 4%.
So you did see some improvements.
But if you look at the retail data it looks like consumption is actually growing at a faster pace just on a sequential basis.
So as you think about that business in fiscal '12 can you give us a little bit of color just in terms of how big the contribution can actually get based on what you're seeing in the retail data? Sure.
Again we would expect to continue to grow.
I would just start by saying that we have a great relationship with Green Mountain.
And as you've heard us say before it's our charge to grow the system or the overall pie.
We're the first natural brand to launch.
And we did roughly as you know about 3% of sales for the 6 months I believe the most successful new product launch in our company history.
There are some new competitors that's going to be entering into the market come fall and those are very public.
So they'll provide incremental opportunities for consumers to buy K-Cups at different channels.
But we remain very very bullish about the continued growth of that business.
Okay.
So are you -- just in terms of what's embedded in your guidance are you looking at sort of that 3 6-month number continuing in fiscal '12 just in light of some of the competition? Or as you kind of build that business that contribution actually does get greater? Yes.
So I mean we hope that it'll continue to grow between at least -- going to be between 3% and 5% of our overall coffee business.
Got it.
Okay.
And then I may have missed it and maybe I've got 2 different numbers here.
But Mark just in terms of your SD&amp;A guidance for next year I think at one point you might have said 10% and then at another point low double-digits.
And then I think you said marketing might not be growing at a -- as fast.
So can you just reconcile or just clarify what you've said.
Yes Judy.
We said that our SD&amp;A would be up 10% and then within that marketing we would also be up in low double-digits as well.
So pretty comparable to the SD&amp;A increase.
We'll take our next question from Ed Aaron from RBC Capital Management.
LLC</strong> I wanted to ask you about coffee more from just kind of a macro perspective.
You've stated a number of times and I think other coffee companies have as well but you think that the -- what's happened with the commodity is more kind of speculative and fundamental.
But as we look at it there really hasn't been much evidence of demand destruction in the category.
And so assuming you agree with that I'm just wondering if there's really a fundamental reason for those costs to really come down.
Well again we would hope that depending on what happens in the financial markets that they could come down.
But I guess I'll just say what I said earlier there are some fundamental issues going on in the world when you look at the amount of demand in Brazil or the supply availability in Colombia.
But again those are not what's driving coffee to the 34-year high.
It's primarily driven by financial markets.
You see that we have a $0.60 trading range in a 2-week period.
That is not supplier-demand driven.
That is financial markets driven.
And so I don't think we can predict anything about what will happen.
But we would hope that they will come down over time.
However whether they'll go back to the levels that we saw a year or 18 months ago most likely it will not occur unless there's some major shift in the financial markets.
LLC</strong> And then my follow-up just on the Coffee segment in the quarter.
It was about I guess a 500 basis point sequential margin decline.
I'm just trying to bridge that a little bit.
I think obviously you had some inflation catch up but you also had a 10% price increase that came into effect I think at the start of the quarter.
So just can you help me understand how to bridge that 500 basis points of sequential change? It just depends on what the timing of our price increase the promotional spend and our green coffee costs that happen to fall within that particular quarter.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Robert Dickerson from Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> I just have a couple of easy questions.
I guess the first question I think someone may have touched on it briefly earlier but I just want to follow up on the commodity cost side.
Just with respect to kind of rollout quarter-to-quarter fiscal '12.
So I mean obviously coffee prices are up.
You've obviously hedged coffee costs some.
But as some of the hedging rolls forward it would just seem intuitively like if I'm thinking about fiscal year '12 that basically the back half of the year should be a little bit stronger than the front half of the year just because of the year-over-year changes in coffee costs.
Does that sound right? Yes that's probably right.
And clearly from a year ago this time cost of green in particular would have bigger disparity than later in the year.
And I would say at the back half of the year we saw pretty high costs more comparable than what we're having in place today.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then secondly I just -- I don't think I heard anybody ask a question on the reclassification of the statements.
But did I hear you right early on when you said it would be Coffee and Consumer and then you're basically combining Oils and Baking with retail? I mean sorry the Oils and Baking with Special Markets? No what we're going to do is we'll have 3 segments and we'll have U.S.
Retail Coffee which would be comparable to what we've had in the past.
We'll have U.S.
Consumer Foods which for simplicity is the addition of what was Consumer and Oils and Baking.
So for your purposes you could just add the profit and sales results together.
We will formally reclass or restate that in the coming weeks.
And the International Natural Foods and Foodservice business which we previously called Special Markets well that will just be the new name for that business.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
All my other questions were answered.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Mitch Pinheiro Janney Montgomery Scott.
Just a couple added-in questions.
First back if you -- sales guidance 20% growth and I think you said flat volume.
So if you back out Rowland make some assumption about Rowland it looks like pricing is in the high teens.
Is that about right? Yes Mitch.
Clearly pricing is the majority.
There is some mix but pricing is by and large the bulk of that 20%.
Okay.
Okay.
In terms of the K-Cup outlook is there pricing in the K-Cups as well? Yes it was included in the price increase that we announced earlier this or last month.
Okay.
And in terms of -- any plans for new SKUs in the K-Cup side? Yes.
This is Mark Mitch.
We are in the process of launching 2 new items in the K-Cup area.
So we're excited about that.
Under the Folgers or Millstone? Millstone.
Folgers Gourmet Select.
Okay.
And then finally can you talk about 2 more things.
One what does your -- of your total K-Cup sales what does the sort of growth look like outside of the food drug and mass channel? Do you have penetration outside of that channel? Outside of food.
Yes alternative channels plus are you in office coffee et cetera? No we do not have the right to distribute the K-Cups in what we would call Foodservice or office coffee channels.
Our channels are primarily limited to what we would call our U.S.
Retail channels.
So office.
Well Canada just launched...
Well Canada's just launched -- yes do you want to...
Yes.
This is Steve Oakland.
We are excited to launch K-Cups in Canada as well and those presentations are being made to trade literally as we speak.
So there's a new -- relatively newer segment in Canada but getting just as much enthusiasm from all of the classes of trade as it is in the United States.
Okay.
And in terms of like the Staples Office Depot segment are you authorized for that channel? No.
Okay.
And then finally in terms of Coffee are you 100% Arabica or do you use any Robusta coffee? Oh no.
We use a very very significant amount of Robustas and we're not public with that exact blend but I can tell you by a significant amount.
Okay and Robusta has moved a lot less than Arabica? It is that right? Am I seeing that correct? On an absolute amount that is correct.
And the difference between the 2 has significantly increased over the past year between Arabica and Robusta and so there have been some competitive actions of maybe revising their blends.
I mean we have resisted doing that.
This is Mark.
If you look at the movement of Robusta relative to Arabicas even though the spread is significant as Arabicas have come down slightly in the last several weeks Robustas have not.
And in fact in the last week or so have actually strengthened on strong demand for Vietnamese Robustas.
Okay.
Very helpful.
Final question.
Acquisitions do you anticipate -- I mean I know what your pipeline looks like.
But you obviously have Rowland working this year.
Is anything -- I don't know how you would describe your acquisition outlook? This is Richard.
And as we always say we got a lot of lines in the water.
We just don't know when the fish are going to bite.
So we're probably in the same position we were about a year ago in terms of that but we're always looking.
Moving on we'll take a follow-up question from Eric Katzman from Deutsche Bank.
Tim I was neglect in not recognizing your contribution and good luck.
Thank you.
Thank you very much Eric.
I guess just kind of a -- maybe somewhat of a broader follow-up but a question on the specialty markets area.
I think in the last couple of calls despite the economy you've highlighted the fact that your natural and organic products which sells at a premium price point has done very well.
And I don't remember whether you've kind of mentioned that.
And are you detecting any change in the high end? Or does that continue to be the intent? Now this is Mark Smucker.
Yes it is a good channel and we do -- and from an industry perspective we are seeing continued growth.
And I would say overall we would continue to see that area grow.
If you look at naturals the natural channel which now is starting to get into some of the mainstream areas in a bigger way.
Organic is part of what we call natural.
It is a smaller piece of course of the pie.
But organic seems to grow very rapidly from an industry perspective and our growth continues as well.
Can you say out of the -- I guess you ended up the year with a little over $900 million in sales.
How much of that is like focused on the organic and natural channels? It's in the order of about $125 million to $130 million in sales.
Okay.
All right.
And then just to check on Richard did you say that you expect interest expense of about $60 million? So despite the addition of the debt and the working capital usage that you're still expecting interest -- you're expecting expense to be down year-over-year? Eric this is Mark Belgya.
The number is $60 million.
That is a net interest number.
And we have moved some of our fixed debt to variable through some swaps that will benefit both from a cash perspective and the P&amp;L during '12.
Gentlemen I will now turn the conference call back to you to conclude.
Okay.
Well this is Tim again and I want to thank everybody for your interest today great questions.
And again thank the team our Smucker team a great team.
We really appreciate it.
It's a great year.
And again I'm humbled to be part of this great team.
So thanks a lot.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen if you wish to access the rebroadcast after this live call you may do so by dialing 1 (888) 203-1112 or 1 (719) 457-0820 with a passcode of 3383522 or by accessing the website for a downloadable MP3 format.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to The J.M.
Smucker Company's First Quarter Fiscal 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference over to Sonal Robinson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our first quarter earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us.
On the call from the company are Richard Smucker Chief Executive Officer; Vince Byrd President and Chief Operating Officer; Mark Belgya Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Steve Oakland President International Foodservice and Natural Foods; Mark Smucker President U.S.
Retail Coffee; and Paul Smucker Wagstaff President U.S.
Retail Consumer Foods.
After this brief introduction I will turn the call over to Richard for opening remarks.
Vince will then provide an update on our business segments and Mark will close with additional comments on our financial results for the quarter and outlook for the full year.
We will then open up the call for questions.
During the call today we may make forward-looking statements that reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates and actual results may differ materially due to risk and uncertainties.
I invite you to read the full disclosure statement in the press release concerning forward-looking statements.
Let me also remind you the company uses non-GAAP results for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.
Additional discussion on non-GAAP information is detailed in our press release located on our website at smuckers.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the website.
If you have any follow-up questions or comments after today's call please contact me or Mark Belgya.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Sonal.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Let me summarize some of the key highlights for the quarter.
First our sales for the quarter increased 14% over the prior year to $1.2 billion as sales were up in all 3 of our reportable segments.
Net price realization was the primary driver of the increase following pricing actions taken in nearly all of our categories to offset higher raw material costs.
Volume was down while mix of products sold was favorable.
Our strategic growth drivers including acquisitions and new products also played a key role in top line growth.
Rowland Coffee acquired in May contributed 2 percentage points of the quarter's net sales increase.
Additionally the ongoing strong performance of Folgers Gourmet Selections and Millstone brand K-Cups also contributed 2 percentage points to sales growth.
Second non-GAAP earnings per share increased 8% as higher sales more than offset the increase in commodity cost.
Earnings per share also benefited from share repurchase -- shares repurchased in the last half of 2011 which contributed approximately $0.05 to the quarter's results.
Offsetting these items was a higher effective tax rate in the current quarter.
Third following a 17% increase in dividends paid in fiscal 2011 the board recently authorized a 9% increase in the quarterly dividend payable in September.
These actions once again are evidence of our continuing commitment to deliver shareholder value.
Lastly we seamlessly completed the transition of our executive management structure that was announced in March.
With the strength of our leadership team and our dedicated employees we are well-positioned for continued success.
We are satisfied with the results for the quarter; in particular the continued share of market growth for most of our brands.
However we are not content with volume declines.
As a result we continue to adjust our plans as necessary to meet the needs of our consumers and our customers.
As we navigate our way through uncharted economic waters we continue to believe that our strategy of focusing on leading brands combined with excellent implementation in the marketplace will continue to yield long-term sustainable growth.
I will now turn the call over to Vince for an update on our business segments.
Thank you Richard.
Let me begin with the U.S.
Retail Coffee segment.
Net sales increased 27% in the quarter primarily reflecting the price increases taken during the past year.
Our K-Cup product offering continued its strong performance contributing 6 percentage points of the sales growth while the Rowland Coffee brands acquired in May contributed 5 percentage points.
Segment volume excluding acquisitions decreased 8% for the quarter with declines in both Folgers and Dunkin' Donuts brands compared to a strong quarter last year.
While volume was anticipated to be softer due to the significant level of price increases the magnitude of the decline was more than we had anticipated.
However we are encouraged that our Coffee business continued to gain share of market in the quarter.
Coffee segment profit increased 25% for the quarter with pricing actions taken over the past year more than offsetting higher green coffee costs.
A portion of the segment profit growth is timing-related as favorable pricing position that benefited the first quarter results precedes higher green coffee costs that are anticipated to be recognized in upcoming quarters primarily affecting the second quarter.
The benefit of unrealized mark-to-market gains on commodity contracts also reduced the impact of higher green coffee costs.
As announced earlier this week we decreased prices by 6% on the majority of our coffee items in response to moderation in the green coffee futures market which is expected to result in lower costs later in the fiscal year.
The timing of this pricing action allows us to target key price points and positions us well as we enter into the holiday periods.
While commodity costs continue to be volatile we remain committed to investing behind our brands and our supply chain.
Marketing expense increased in the quarter due to the addition of Rowland Coffee business and the continued support of our coffee brands with all elements of the marketing mix.
Coffee product innovation remains strong as we recently launched several new items that build on our single-serve strategy including Folgers instant stick packs and 2 new varieties of K-Cups.
We are working towards a seamless integration of the Rowland Coffee business with customer-facing and distribution network activities targeted for the end of the second quarter.
As we continue to learn this business we are pleased with the initial results and remain on track to deliver $0.05 accretion targeted for 2012.
Lastly the restructuring project is progressing well with the expansion of the New Orleans coffee facility on schedule to be completed by next summer.
Turning now to the U.S.
Retail Consumer Foods segment.
Net sales increased 2% as price and favorable sales mix more than offset a 3% decline in volume.
As noted in our press release volume was down across all categories in the Consumer Foods segment while profitability declined as net price realization was not sufficient to offset higher raw material costs.
An unfavorable change in unrealized mark-to-market adjustment also contributed to the decline.
Let me provide some additional commentary on the dynamics within our key categories.
In peanut butter we proactively managed the 2010 peanut crop availability with temporarily rationalizations on selected items and a reduction of first quarter promotional activities which contributed to a volume decline in the quarter.
The inability to cross-promote also limited the growth of our food spread business during the quarter.
While the first quarter was somewhat challenging for peanut butter our outlook for the full year is positive.
The actions taken have allowed us to build inventories to a level where we can support a ramp up of promotional activities as we conclude the back-to-school period and head into the Fall Bake and Holiday season.
In addition we are pleased with the continued rollout of our Jif To Go and the ongoing success of our Jif Natural peanut butter.
As we preview the upcoming 2011 peanut crop we expect significantly higher peanut costs as we progress through the fiscal year and anticipate taking further pricing action to offset these costs.
Turning to Crisco.
We continue to see aggressive competitive activity within the base oils category.
While this has led to some volatility on our oils business we are effectively managing the competitive environment with a focus on everyday price points.
Specific to the quarter a large portion of the volume decline was related to our shortening business which we plan to address over the balance of the fiscal year.
In the milk category commodity costs have continued to increase since year end and given the intense competitive set rising costs have been difficult to recover through pricing primarily on our private label business.
The baking category also continues to be challenged with commodity cost increases.
Since we do not typically lead pricing actions in the baking category our ability to recover costs has been impacted for our Pillsbury brand.
Our focus remains on product innovation and positioning the business for a successful Fall Bake and Holiday period.
We are also encouraged that key retailers have increased their support of various Fall Bake activities including the expansion in the number of bake centers.
While the overall segment volume was soft we are encouraged to have maintained or grown market share across all channels in each of our key categories peanut butter fruit spreads oils baking and milk in the latest 12-week period ended in July.
Let me conclude my remarks with International Foodservice and Natural Foods segment.
Excluding the favorable impact of acquisitions and foreign exchange net sales increased 7% as price increases and mix more than offset a 1% decline in volume.
Volume gains were realized in Santa Cruz Organic beverages and Bick's pickles but were offset by declines in flour.
Segment profit grew 9% in the quarter as net price realization more than offset higher raw material costs the unfavorable impact of unrealized mark-to-market adjustments and a 5% increase in our marketing expenses in support of our brands.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mark.
Thank you Vince.
Consolidated net sales increased $142 million or 14% in the first quarter reflecting a 13% impact of net price realization across many of our categories.
Volume declined 3% while sales mix was favorable.
The recently acquired Rowland Coffee brands contributed approximately 2% to net sales for the quarter while the impact of the stronger Canadian dollar added 1%.
GAAP earnings per share were $0.98 this quarter and $0.86 in the first quarter of last year including restructuring and merger and integration costs.
Excluding these special project costs earnings per share were $1.12 this quarter and $1.04 in last year's first quarter an increase of 8%.
Earnings per share reflected increased operating income and the benefit of share repurchase activity in the last half of 2011.
These factors were partially offset by a higher effective tax rate in the quarter.
Operating income excluding special project cost increased $10 million or 5% for the quarter reflecting an increase in gross profit.
Despite some moderation in the commodity markets near the end of the quarter significantly higher raw material costs were recognized in COGS which was up 19% in the current quarter.
Cost increases were led by green coffee flour and soybean oil.
As expected price increases taken over the past year offset higher costs but did not result in gross margin gain.
Included in first quarter results was a $4 million benefit from unrealized mark-to-market adjustments on derivative contracts.
This compares to a $7 million benefit in the prior year.
While the impact of unrealized mark-to-market adjustments was not material on a consolidated basis as Vince indicated the impact by segment varies.
The increase in gross profit was partially offset by a 7% increase in SD&amp;A expenses reflecting higher selling and general and administrative expenses.
The acquisition of Rowland added to our SD&amp;A expenses as we will incur incremental costs until the integration is completed later this year.
Total marketing expense was down a modest 1% primarily -- transfer of funds trade promotion in support of our Consumer Foods business.
The effective income tax rate was 33.2% in the first quarter compared to 31.3% in the prior year.
The effective tax rate in the first quarter of last year benefited from a favorable federal income tax determination related to a prior year a higher domestic manufacturing deduction and lower state income tax expense.
We continue to anticipate a full year effective tax rate between 33% and 33.5%.
Turning to cash flow.
Cash used by operations was $58 million in the first quarter compared to a use of $27 million last year.
The increase was driven by a higher working capital requirement specifically the impact of commodity cost increases on higher inventory levels that were partially due to the additional buildup related to our supply chain restructuring project.
During the first quarter approximately $307 million was borrowed under our revolving credit facility at an average rate of 1.5% and remained outstanding as of the end of the quarter.
Borrowings were used to fund the Rowland Coffee acquisition as well as working capital needs.
With the normal build in inventory in advance of the Atlantic hurricane season and to support the Fall Bake and Holiday promotional periods we expect to draw additional funds on the revolver during the second quarter but anticipate paying down the majority of the revolver borrowings by the end of the fiscal year.
Last month we amended our revolving credit facility increasing the borrowing limit to $1 billion and extending the term to July 2016.
Capital expenditures were $68 million in the first quarter tracking toward the full year range of $250 million to $275 million.
We continue to anticipate free cash flow of approximately $450 million for 2012 somewhat contingent on our year-end inventory balances.
Subsequent to the end of the quarter we repurchased nearly all of the approximately 500 000 common shares remaining under our current 10b5-1 plan utilizing $37 million of cash.
An additional 2.5 million shares remain available for repurchase under previous board authorizations.
Let me conclude by updating our outlook for the remainder of the fiscal year.
We still expect net price realization to drive significant top line growth in 2012 as compared to last year.
The impact of the recent coffee price decrease and first quarter volume is expected to lower our sales growth by a few percentage points below the 20% we originally guided to in June.
With the recent market decreases in certain commodities most notably coffee we now anticipate year-over-year cost increases as a percent of COGS will also be lower than our initial guidance of 25%.
As a result we continue to expect non-GAAP income per diluted share to be in the range of $5 to $5.15 including amortization expense of approximately $0.50.
Although we generally do not comment on quarter estimates we want to reiterate that the second quarter results will be impacted by the timing of coffee costs hitting our P&amp;L.
While the first quarter benefited from our price position relative to recognized green coffee cost we expect this trend will reverse in the second quarter as higher green coffee costs will be realized along with the impact of the coffee price decrease [ph].
As always we manage the company with a long-term perspective and remain confident in our ability to deliver on the full year guidance.
While volatility in the commodity markets and uncertainty in the economy continue our focus will not waver from our strategy in building our brands for the long term.
In closing let me say that we remain confident in our employees’ ability to execute in this challenging environment and we thank them for their continuing efforts.
Thank you for your time today and we'll now be happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll hear first from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Barely had time to think of my questions.
Okay.
I guess you made some comments about the peanut butter inventory or supply position limiting production as well as its influence on jam and jelly.
Is there a way to kind of quantify that? And how does that kind of play out during the rest of the year? Because I guess those are 2 pretty profitable businesses within the portfolio and then I'll ask my second question after.
Eric this is Paul Wagstaff.
And yes just to take a step back and explain kind of what happened.
Yes we wanted to make sure that we were proactive in managing the 2010 crop peanut crop which we knew was not a very good crop and wanted to make sure that we had the availability.
So what we did is we temporarily discontinued 8 of our items to focus on our core 18-ounce and crunchy and creamy products to make sure that we had those products on shelf during the summer and the first quarter.
And in line with that what we decided to do is basically reduce our first quarter promotion activities.
We made sure that we had enough inventory build in our warehouse which we do have right now.
And that basically led to some lower volume in peanut butter as well as in our jam and jelly business to be -- cross-promote with peanut butter.
So where we are now is we have inventory levels that are solid.
We feel that we can go back and support the rest of the back-to-school as well as getting into our Fall Bake time period.
And we feel very good for the full year projection that we're going to be in great shape on both peanut butter and spreads.
Okay.
But is there -- so there isn't really a way to quantify kind of how much you feel that that held the quarter back? Eric this is -- it's Mark Belgya.
I would say that if you look at the profitability shortfall in consumer foods it probably was just about 15% to 20% of a dollar decrease in the overall segment.
So they're down about $15 million.
So it's about fit to that.
Okay.
And just to follow-up obviously the decision to lower the coffee prices got a fair amount of attention kind of I guess Sara Lee at least they're a European business but they showed that unfortunately elasticity is kind of shown up in coffee and you saw that.
So how much of the price cut in coffee is just a function of the elasticity being worse thing you thought versus just let's say more competitive conditions within the category and you wanting to be a leader and go first? This is Mark Smucker.
I think as it relates to the decrease it has more to do with how we price to our position and we don't feel necessarily that the decline was more than was anticipated.
We always talk about the elasticity model and that we've tend to beat those.
But clearly we were a little disappointed with the results but we do think that this price decrease positions us very well going into the holiday period.
And that although there may be some margin compression in the quarter we do feel comfortable in terms of recovering $0.01 profit and then position well going into the back half of the year.
We'll take our next question from Farha Aslam with Stephens.
Vince just going along the elasticity question you had mentioned volumes were weak in the quarter.
Could you just share with us kind of which segments outperformed your expectations and which ones had more pressure? Well I'll start but I'll turn it over to Mark and Paul.
I think as we just alluded to and alluded to in the formal remarks coffee was lower than we would have anticipated.
Paul has already explained the peanut butter and fruit spreads really don't have much to do with pricing elasticity it's more about the availability and the ability to cross-promote.
Probably shortening and baking would be the other 2 that were the key ones.
So I'll ask the other 2 if they support or have any additional commentary.
Well this is Paul and I would agree with Vince.
On the shortening side of the business we took a price increase in -- beginning of the year and that had an impact on our volume.
And on the baking side as we're not typically leading price increases in that category we weren't able to recover some of the cost increase on a couple key areas.
Yes I would echo.
This is Mark.
I would echo Vince's comments.
We feel obviously very good about K-Cups.
And in the mainstream channel I think as well we may have seen some shifting of volume around in the category.
But we still feel pretty good obviously about our share position.
That's helpful.
And then going into the rest of the year you guys had commented that you're going to seek to shore up some of those volume declines.
Given that the economy is quite weak do you anticipate further promotional activity is needed? And are you concerned about matching pricing with increasing costs? I'll go first.
This is Mark.
In coffee the reason one of the key reasons that we took a price decline is because we felt that that was really the right thing for the consumer.
And clearly we'll be focused on our promotional spending as we go into the next several months.
But the bottom line really is that the price decline was necessary and is important to consider in light of -- and balancing that what we might spend in trade versus what we really hope the consumer should see the price on shelf.
And this is Paul.
And I think in the other categories on peanut butter food spreads baking milk et cetera we do have some leverage that we're in the position to pull to make the back 3 quarters of the year better.
We'll take our next question from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
A quick question on Dunkin' Donuts.
I think this is the second consecutive quarter you've had a low double-digit decline.
Can you flesh that out for us what the drivers are? And whether or not you expect that to persist? Sure.
I guess I'd start by saying that we still feel great about the business and we think that there is upside to the business.
The performance this past quarter was driven by a couple things.
One the timing of some promotional activity that we had experienced in the prior year that wasn't repeated this year.
And we may get some of that back in the second quarter.
And then just we were not enjoying the price advantage that we had been versus one of our key competitors in the gourmet segment and so I think that obviously had some impact.
But again going forward I think we're well-positioned going into the holiday period and we feel good about how we will be able to reflect those prices on shelf versus competition.
Just to clarify that last comment you feel good about how you're going to be able to reflect the price position.
Are you suggesting that you're going to try to widen out that price gap again? Well we hope to.
I think that depends on how we manage that with our customers and it's obviously going to be very dependent on how our retail customers reflect that price.
But I'd say we were optimistic.
Well this is Vince.
And then if -- what if any response we to get from the competitive set.
That's right.
Sure sure.
And this time last year you guys you were outperforming measured channel your volume by quite a bit.
Now we're underperforming.
Is this a factor of any inventory shifts in the pipeline? Or is this a factor of what may be happening in some of the unmeasured channels? Are you speaking specifically to Dunkin' or coffee or? This is coffee overall.
Sorry I should have clarified and specifically volume.
Well yes.
So as Mark indicated where some of the shortfall occurred in the quarter tends to be in some of our non-measured channels if you will and so probably had a greater impact this quarter than it has had historically.
And quite frankly some of that was price point driven that we hit some thresholds that I think the consumer has responded to.
But as Mark indicated with our price decline we should be able to address that going forward.
We'll go next to Ed Aaron with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Wanted to ask first on the K-Cups.
The volume contribution there was maybe a little bit lower than I had expected and I'm just wondering if you think that retailers are maybe taking a little bit more of a cautious approach just with kind of the new competitor coming into the market shortly.
Any kind of thoughts there? No actually.
I think we still feel very optimistic about our K-Cup business.
We're the first national brand to launch in the category and we still are bullish and believe that there's significant upside as well as feeling good that we're positioned well going into some of the key competitive activity that we will experience in the second and third quarters.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then on peanut butter just can you maybe talk about the competitive dynamics there a little bit? There's a new competitor coming in and then talk about your main competitor not getting all the price through that they had intended I'm just wondering if either of those things has an effect on kind of how you view your ability to perform in that business this year? Ed this is Paul.
And from a competitive perspective yes we know very well aware of the competitor the new competitor on the block.
I think again what happened in the first quarter is we delisted temporarily these 8 items are – we allowed our competitor to come in and pick up some of those slots so we're well aware of that.
We understand the key competitor has been aggressive in promoting.
We also maybe understand that they may be pulling back a little bit so that would be expected from what we understand in the peanut crop.
So from our perspective again we did what we felt was a responsible thing in the first quarter and we feel very well positioned going into the next 3 quarters.
We'll go next to David Driscoll with Citi Investment Research.
I guess could you discuss coffee volumes for the category? And then I'd also like to hear your thoughts on exactly what's going on or as much as you can on why the volumes are down? And what I specifically mean here is certainly it's some price elasticity.
But do you know which consumer is it affecting? Is it affecting your loyal consumer who drink multiple cups a day? Or is this dis-incentivizing new consumers from coming into the category? This question would relate to kind of the future in terms of how easily it is to regain these volumes assuming that coffee prices continued to decline.
I think -- let me speak to your first question first.
And in terms of the category as a whole I think as you look at -- I think you guys probably have these numbers but the category is down slightly on a 12-week it's down 1% in volume.
But again we've been doing very well from a share perspective particularly in the mainstream segment.
I think I understand your second question you're asking which consumers are either hurt or benefited from the shifts in segment? Is that your second… So let me rephrase.
So volumes are down in coffees and then the question is who are we losing here? Are we just losing -- is it that second or third cup people aren't drinking and that's how you see a decline? Or is it we just have users that normally might have come into the category and you're just simply not attracting them because of the very high prices? This is Vince.
Let me -- let's take a step back in a macro perspective what's going on.
You have continual shift growth of the gourmet segment versus the mainstream segment roast and ground.
That continues and you have a lot of activity obviously between us and a couple of competitors.
Secondly you have although still small a growing segment of single-serve primarily as it relates to K-Cups which adds dollars but doesn't add a lot of volume per se because of the ratio.
So those 2 phenomenons are going on.
The third thing is that consumers some consumers are in fact trading down from maybe some of our -- like our classic roast to what we would refer to as our opening price point offerings custom roast and those type of things.
So I think the consumer is in fact you have higher-end consumers still attracted to the gourmet or a single-serve category and you have some consumers quite frankly that are trading down because again our retailers are trying to reach price points that they were unable to do with more of our classic roast.
With our recent price decline and where we're going to place our emphasis we believe we'll be able to get that back and there is no impact though from a profitability perspective because all of those basically contribute equally.
But there's no fundamental change other than that over sort of a macro perspective.
We'll go to our next question from Scott Mushkin with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Just wanted to go into coffee a little bit more probably beating this dead horse a little bit but I just wanted to understand the price decline the motivation behind that.
Was that really the fact that green coffee costs had come down or was it mostly motivated by the volume concerns? And your -- I also got that maybe you're looking to offset some of this by some hedge anticipated hedging gains or hedging benefits to fund this price decrease or did I misinterpret that? I'll start and I'll let Mark or Vince chime in.
This is Mark Smucker.
I think first of all the main driver of that decrease it is the right thing to do in terms of getting to the key price points through the holiday period.
And yes you're correct that some green coffee costs are coming down.
We have the ability to participate in some nominal degree in some of the downward movement of that even though we're looking at burning through some of our higher-priced inventory.
However I think it's a combination of the factors that you mentioned.
But at the end of the day it really is driven by trying to be collaborative with our customers and trying to help them get to the price points that we believe the consumer can afford.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
That's perfect clarification.
The other thing I wanted to get in on or talk about a little bit is the idea that maybe the retail trade has built some inventories in anticipation of all the price increases and then there's a possibility that some of the volume weakness you're seeing is I guess run off of some of the inventories that perhaps were built in the channel.
Do you have any thoughts on that as you've kind of gone through this big kind of bubble of costs and everything? This is Vince.
I would say that we probably did experience a little bit of that in peanut butter on our last price increase.
Other than that actually we see some retailers that are decreasing inventory levels given the actual costs of the commodities themselves.
But yes so I guess that's how we respond.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then the final question I'll yield is any update on kind of the China acquisition search? I know you guys mentioned this at CAGNY and I just wonder if you had any update for us.
Sure.
This is Steve Oakland.
I can speak to some of the efforts in China.
Couple things we continue to do research in the markets in China and to understand both the categories and the number of companies in those categories and understand how those markets really work mechanically.
And so that'll position us to be there in a meaningful way here sometime in the future.
We will have an office open in Shanghai later this fall and we're starting to put a team together.
So we're excited about that and we're trying to get ourselves positioned to be meaningful there but we're not going to do anything until we feel like we've got a firm foot on the ground.
We'll move next to Jon Andersen with William Blair.
I wanted to just talk about Dunkin' Donuts for another minute.
Could you provide a little more color on kind of where you stand today from a distribution perspective with Dunkin' and maybe how many SKUs on the shelf? And what the opportunity is over the next few years? Well this is Mark again.
In terms of the total Dunkin' as it relates to our distribution we've got in the upper 80s ACV distribution so we're actually pretty well positioned.
Now if you look at some of the newer items they might be slightly below that.
But we're still in the upper 70% in terms of ACV in some of the recent launches.
Now total SKUs we've got probably about a dozen SKUs which is significantly fewer SKUs than our key competitor would have.
But we do benefit at this time of year from some of the seasonal and flavored coffees that we launch in that category and those in the past have performed very well for us.
So bottom line distribution is getting there.
We're pretty far along that path and then counting on some of the seasonal items to continue to drive volume in the second quarter.
That's helpful.
I guess just a couple quick follow-ups perhaps for Mark.
The previous revenue guidance for 20% growth for the year if I kind of back out the 6% price reduction on coffee I'm getting to about kind of a 2% impact to sales for the year.
So are we now saying something kind of in that upper teen range? Or how much is maybe the incremental impact from volume? What's the right way to think about that? Well I think as I said in my prepared comments I think we said it would be a couple percentage points below the 20% we guided to and that does factor in obviously the 6% decline and then with some thought on volume contribution.
But I don't think we’d necessarily be specific give you volume or price just take it a couple of percentage point below the volume [ph].
We'll move next to Robert Dickerson with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> I guess a couple questions.
First question just a follow-up to the last question was if sales are going to be a few percentage points lower was there any additional guidance for what you think COGS maybe is obviously? Sales can come down by a few basis points or 300 basis points but relative to where input costs are probably in the back half of the year and what you said that you continue to hold $0.01 profit it would seem as if your operating profit growth which frankly is all I really care about should be healthy and continue to hold.
Yes well we would expect a couple percentage points decline in sales that would be a little bit more of that on the COGS side.
So I think as you said we were at 25% in June.
So you're kind of getting down in the lower 20s range.
LLC</strong> So essentially though I mean for every whatever the ratio is but for whatever -- for any incremental reduction in your top line growth it seems as if you're actually having a little bit more reduction in your COGS growth.
So net-net I just want to be clear that we we’re all very focused uber-focused on the top line but it does sound as if and also inclusive of your comments earlier that your outlook so to speak for profit growth even though you haven't given us one internally doesn't seem to be changing too much.
I mean it may be better.
Well you make the judge on it on the profit be it better.
But that's right.
And I mean if you think about it just from our general approach on price changes we I mean clearly we talked about it along the way up in terms of protecting $0.01 profit.
So yes I mean we're seeing costs expected cost increases from higher peanut butter from higher peanut cost and would expect to lower the price to sort of offset the margin.
There's always going to be a little play as you know as it relates to the timing.
But generally I agree with your comments.
We'll go next to Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
Thought I'd ask more of a big picture question when you're looking at the consumer condition right now how are food shoppers manifesting a slow growth economy the high unemployment when they're shopping for Smucker products? And what are you seeing regarding trading down within your brands trading into private label what they're doing with sizes? And how are the retailers maybe collaborating by promoting private label? Hey Chuck this is Vince.
As I mentioned earlier clearly -- well first of all if you look at our wide range of products we believe we offer value across our full range regardless of the segment.
And as you all know peanut butter is one of the lowest costs of protein in the industry.
So overall and you think about as we said before to brew a Folgers product coffee at home it's still less than $0.10 a cup compared to the alternative.
So in a macro perspective we feel that we're very well positioned.
Having said that as I mentioned earlier because of some of the price points retailers are looking for either smaller sizes to promote or in the case of Coffee there's been some shifting to again what we would refer to as our opening price point offerings.
And again that's driven by the retailers and/or the consumers.
That's not a shift in our promotional emphasis within the industry.
But I guess I'll leave it at that unless Mark or Paul wants to add additional commentary.
And I'd only add that -- this is Richard.
On the private label side at least in our categories we continue to gain market share in almost every category that we're in.
And so even if private label maybe growing a little bit it's not growing at our expense.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take a follow-up question from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Two detailed questions I guess one for Mark on the -- do you have a change in the net interest expense for the year? It came in a little less than what I had thought for the first quarter.
Is there any change there or is the working capital going to offset whatever cash flow benefits that provides? Eric I don't think it will be materially.
It might be up just a little bit because I think we will carry inventories so we’ll be borrowing maybe a little bit longer but I don't think it's material under modeling.
Okay.
And I don't recall any comment on the productivity program.
I think you were suggesting as much as $0.30 or more a share of kind of benefits this fiscal year.
Is that more second half weighted? I assume so but just can you clarify that? Yes well I think in Vince’s prepared comments he might have coffee spoke to the coffee.
But our projects which are primarily around our fruit spreads operation here in Orrville with new construction and also with the New Orleans coffee facility it is sort of stepped up.
I think I’d use that term over the time to getting ultimately I think what we said about $65 million to $70 million.
But we have recognized about $25 million within the run rate over the course of the year this current fiscal year.
And that was -- I'm sorry.
That was consistent with what we said in June and that's included in our guidance.
Okay.
And then just last thing.
Any changes on the category management designations in coffee? I know that that's something you've been targeting given your breadth of products.
Have you made strides there and could you detail anything? Eric this is Vince.
There's nothing significant to report.
We have had a couple of wins if you will and also we're becoming more and more reliant on to be a validator of certain information but nothing significant to report.
We'll take our next question from Ed Aaron with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Just a quick clarification question on the coffee price decrease.
So it’s obviously a pass-through category but you seem to talk about it as a decision that was somewhat driven by consumer right now and the reason I ask about it is that Arabica has bounced back somewhat meaningfully this week and it's actually only a few cents lower than where it was when you last raised price.
So I'm just wondering whether you might if there is a consumer issue that you're seeing if you would be slower to take price up again if the commodity does kind of continue – start to move higher.
I'd say the short answer is no.
But again I think it is driven again by getting to the right price point through a price reduction rather than through necessarily increase in trade.
So I think the key driver and why we're comfortable in doing that despite where our commodity costs may be is that by getting to those key price points again we feel that we will be able to drive some volume and make up that $0.01 profit that we may have missed in the second quarter.
We'll take our next from Robert Dickerson with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Just a quick question just on capital structure.
I know you mentioned on the call that you had a number of leverage you could potentially pull and kind of in the remainder of the year or back half of the year.
And you're obviously a bit credit light right now so to speak so I'm just curious it seems like you didn't call out but it seems like you did buy back probably about 1 million shares in Q1 and with where your stock price is right now and your leverage capability and what have you could you foresee potentially any incremental buy back at least in Q2? Or is that you're just basically staying mute on that? Rob this is Mark.
A couple thoughts or comments.
We did buy back about 0.5 million shares here at the end or after the end of the quarter during month of August.
So you'll see those reflected modestly through the rest of the year on our weighted shares.
The effect that you're seeing as you compare for example this quarter's weighted shares to a year ago was more the effect of what we bought in the back half of fiscal 2011 so that sort of clarifies the change in shares.
In terms of going forward we have 2.5 million shares that the board authorized in January of this year.
As we have said we kind of have 4 buckets of cash deployment.
On the growth side we've got CapEx and we've got acquisitions.
And on the shareholder return side we've got dividends and buybacks.
And we really do look at those 4 uses of cash pretty evenly.
Clearly we have been able to take advantage and have repurchased shares over the last 2 years at pretty reasonable price.
We'll continue to look at the opportunity to do that.
But as opportunities from acquisition obviously that’s part of our growth algorithm we'll take that into consideration at the time.
So at this point I wouldn't say we're going to be active in the market but we'll clearly consider it as one is the uses of our cash through the rest of the fiscal and into next year.
That is all the time we have today for questions.
I will now turn the call back over to management to conclude.
Well we thank you for your time and interest today.
And just in summary we still feel very solid about the year.
We felt that the first quarter was a solid quarter.
And in light of taking a number of price increases our volume held up fairly well and in areas where it was a little short we have plans to make that up for the remainder of the year.
And our plans are to come right in where we said we would at the beginning of the year.
So we're still feeling pretty good about the market.
So thank you for your day your time.
Ladies and gentlemen if you wish to access the rebroadcast after this live call you may do so by dialing 1 (888) 203-1112 or 1 (719) 457-0820 with a passcode of 4796460 or by accessing the website for a downloadable MP3 format.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to The J.
M.
Smucker Company's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all participants are in a listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Sonal Robinson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our second quarter earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
On the call with me are Richard Smucker Chief Executive Officer; Vince Byrd President and Chief Operating Officer; Mark Belgya Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Steve Oakland President International Foodservice and Natural Foods; Mark Smucker President U.S.
Retail Coffee; and Paul Smucker Wagstaff President U.S.
Retail Consumer Foods.
After this brief introduction I will turn the call over to Richard for opening remarks.
Vince will then provide an update on our business segments and Mark will close with additional comments on our financial results for the quarter and our outlook for the year.
We will then open up the call for questions.
During the call today we may make forward-looking statements that reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates and actual results may differ materially due to risks and uncertainties.
I invite you to read the full disclosure statement in the press release concerning forward-looking statements.
Let me also remind you that the company uses non-GAAP results for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.
Additional discussion on non-GAAP information is detailed in our press release located on our website at smuckers.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the website.
If you have any follow-up questions or comments after today's call please contact me or Mark Belgya.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Sonal.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on the call.
Let me begin by summarizing some of the key highlights for the quarter.
First as you have seen in our press release we achieved sales growth of 18% over the prior year reaching a record level for the second quarter.
Pricing actions taken over the course of the past 12 months to offset significant commodity cost increases resulted in strong net price realization.
Also a positive mix of sales notably increases in peanut butter and K-Cups and the recently acquired Rowland Coffee business also contributed to sales growth.
Volume while down 1% from last year's second quarter showed growth in a number of categories and improved sequentially from the first quarter.
As in previous quarters innovation was a key driver of growth as new products contributed significantly to the top line gains.
Incremental K-Cup sales for the quarter were $30 million providing 2 percentage points of the sales increase.
Sales of Folgers and Millstone branded K-Cups which marked their first anniversary during the quarter now exceed $100 million on an annual basis and we expect continued growth in this area.
Seasonal baking and coffee items also performed exceptionally well.
Second the quarter's cost of goods sold hit the expected peak in our overall commodity cost curve for the fiscal year.
And although total costs of goods sold were up approximately $230 million or 30% our gross profit increased for the quarter.
Finally non-GAAP earnings per share for the quarter were $1.29 down 9% from last year.
Included in our results is the onetime loss of approximately $0.07 per share related to the divestiture of the Europe's Best business in Canada.
Based on our desire to focus on categories that are more strategic to Canada's portfolio and prioritize resources to capitalize on key opportunities we made the decision to exit this business.
Results for the second quarter were also impacted by a higher effective tax rate compared to the prior year.
Apparently we are in the midst of our important Fall Bake and Holiday promotional period.
Our team has excellent consumer and merchandising programs in place.
We have seen an increase in the number of retail bake centers and in the number of Smucker items included on these bake centers.
This is supplemented with the strong consumer marketing program including our multi-brand event that we launched earlier this month as well as TV print and digital advertising.
We feel good about our initiatives.
And while we recognize that consumer takeaway will ultimately determine the success of our Fall Bake we believe our business is very well positioned.
Higher food prices have resulted in market data that shows consumers have decreased home pantry inventory levels across many categories throughout the food industry.
This IRI data also shows the number of Smucker products in the pantries has actually increased and thus represents a larger portion of total items.
Looking ahead we are comforted that most commodity costs appear to have peaked in early fall and have retreated modestly in the past couple of months.
As such we believe our price-to-cost position is in good shape.
Thus the need for most price increases is behind us as we head into the remainder of the fiscal year.
Looking at the full year we are revising our guidance range for non-GAAP income per diluted share to $4.90 to $5 a share.
While this is down from our original estimate most of the adjustment reflects the onetime loss associated with the Europe's Best sale and incremental interest expense related to our recent $750 million public note offering.
Although we are operating in a challenging environment we remain confident in our long-term position as our team continues to focus on balancing volume market share and profitability.
Let me conclude by briefly commenting on last month's announcement regarding our plans to acquire the majority of Sara Lee's North American foodservice coffee business.
We're extremely excited about this transaction as it encompasses our definition of all 3 classes of acquisitions that we have spoken about in the past.
First it is enabling as it allows us to participate in the liquid coffee business aligning with our desire to compete in all forms of coffee.
Second the acquisition transforms our foodservice business by adding significant scale and nearly doubling its net sales.
By providing liquid Coffee technologies and adding a direct sales force to our team it allows us to extend our reach within the foodservice coffee channels.
Third it bolts on nicely to our existing North American coffee business and expands our overall coffee footprint.
In addition to all of these benefits it provides a unique opportunity to establish a multi-year innovation partnership with Sara Lee's new CoffeeCo that will allow us to collaborate on new technologies in the liquid coffee category for the foodservice market.
True to form our teams are actively working on steps necessary to close the transaction and seamlessly integrate it into our existing businesses.
We expect the transaction to close in January and look forward to welcoming nearly 450 employees to the Smucker family.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Vince for additional details on our businesses and our brands.
Thank you Richard and good morning everyone.
Let me begin by reinforcing that our team is successfully managing through this dynamic cost and pricing environment and we believe our efforts to balance growing share volume and profit continue to position us for the long term.
Turning to the segment results for the quarter.
Net sales increased 29% for the U.S.
Retail Coffee segment primarily driven by price increases and strong contributions from innovation and acquisitions.
Incremental K-Cup sales provided 6 percentage points of the sales growth including the 2 new K-Cup varieties launched earlier this year.
In addition our Dunkin' Donuts seasonal items continue to perform exceptionally well and our new filter packs and instant single-serve packets have been well received by consumers.
The recently acquired Rowland Coffee brand also contributed 6 percentage points of the sales growth and we remain excited about the opportunity to expand the Cafe Bustelo and Cafe Pilon brands in Hispanic markets.
During the quarter we achieved a key integration milestone as we successfully completed the transaction of our customer-facing and distribution network activities with no interruption to the business.
This is a testament to the hard work and dedication of our team.
Overall we are very pleased with this acquisition and its opportunities for continued growth.
Coffee segment volume excluding acquisitions decreased 4% for the quarter with Folgers and Dunkin' Donuts brands experiencing volume declines of 4% and 3% respectively representing an improvement over the first quarter.
We are pleased that our Folgers brand has continued to grow market share in the mainstream roasting ground segment in the most recent 12- and 52-week periods.
Coffee segment profit decreased for the quarter as a result of lower volume and the impact of significantly higher green coffee costs which were more pronounced in the second quarter as well as an unfavorable $7 million increase in unrealized mark-to-market adjustments on commodity contracts.
As expected the favorable pricing position that benefited the first quarter partially reversed in the second quarter.
Looking at the first 2 quarters combined coffee segment profit was up 7% over the prior year.
We continue to expect higher green coffee costs to be recognized for the remainder of the year although to a lesser extent than the second quarter.
The higher cost will be reflected more in the third quarter moderating in the fourth.
Also from a comparison standpoint keep in mind that the segment profit in last year's third quarter was at an all-time high.
Overall we remain encouraged with our coffee business as we enter the back half of the year and our key promotional periods.
Turning now to the U.S.
Retail Consumer Food segment.
Net sales increased 13% reflecting significant pricing actions taken across all major categories to offset higher raw material costs along with favorable sales mix.
Overall volume was comparable to the prior year.
Product innovation also added to the sales growth for the quarter with contributions from our Pillsbury seasonal items Jif To Go Peanut Butter and Orchard's Finest premium fruit spreads.
Segment profit increased 2% from net price realization and favorable sales mix.
Let me now provide some additional commentary on the dynamics within the key categories.
Peanut butter volume was up 11% reflecting contributions from both Jif and our Natural Peanut Butter brands.
During the quarter we resumed promotional activities following a pullback in the first quarter to manage the peanut availability related to the 2010 peanut crop.
This combined with incremental consumer demand in advance of our previously announced November price increase led to strong results for the quarter.
Jif Natural peanut butter continued its solid performance with significant volume growth in the period.
Looking forward we believe our prudent actions taken to manage challenges related to the 2011 peanut crop have positioned us well.
We remain comfortable with our peanut supply heading into the remainder of the fiscal year.
Our 30% price increase went into effect this month with the exception of the holiday promotions which have been price protected.
Similar price increases have been taken by all major peanut butter brands.
The ultimate level of price elasticity associated with an increase of this magnitude will depend on a number of factors but we expect the net price realization will fully offset our recognized costs and our peanut butter outlook for the full year remains positive.
Turning to Crisco.
Our base oils business was impacted significantly in the quarter by aggressive private label price points at a few key retailers.
As a result volume for the Crisco brand was down 10% in the quarter.
While we continue to manage this challenge which we expect to continue in the near term we are pleased with the performance of our base oil business at the majority of our customers.
Further our shortening business rebounded to post a slight volume gain in the second quarter.
Finally volume in our baking category was up for the quarter.
Although flour volume was down baking mixes had yet another strong quarter leading to market share gains.
Our baking business continues to be driven by the success of product innovations in the Pillsbury brand including a number of new seasonal items.
Overall as Richard mentioned we have in place exceptional quality merchandising programs as we continue through the Fall Bake and Holiday period.
For the International Foodservice and Natural Foods segment excluding the impact of acquisitions divestitures and foreign exchange net sales increased 6% with price increases more than offsetting a 3% decline in volume and unfavorable mix.
Volume gains were realized in Santa Cruz Organic beverages Five Roses flours Bick's pickles but were offset by declines in nonbranded natural beverages and Folgers Coffee.
Excluding the onetime loss on the divestitures of Europe's Best segment profit was down approximately 2% reflecting an increase in marketing expense over the prior year.
Before turning the call over to Mark let me provide a brief update on our restructuring project.
Activities continue to progress well and the overall project remains on track including the expansion of our New Orleans coffee operations and the construction of our new fruit spreads manufacturing facility in Orrville Ohio.
As planned our Canadian pickle facility will close at the end of this month with the production of these items successfully transitioned to contract manufacturers.
We would like to thank our employees for those efforts and their dedication during the transition.
In closing we remain confident in underlying fundamentals of our business the strengthening of our brands and our ability to execute.
I'll now turn the call over to Mark to discuss our consolidated results and outlook for the year.
Thanks Vince.
Consolidated net sales increased $235 million reflecting a 15% impact in net price realization contributions from the Rowland Coffee brand favorable sales mix and FX.
Volume was down slightly.
GAAP earnings per share were $1.12 this quarter and $1.25 in the second quarter of last year including restructuring and merger and integration costs.
Excluding these special project costs earnings per share were $1.29 this quarter and $1.38 in last year's second quarter a decrease of $0.09 or 7%.
As Richard noted results in the current quarter included the $0.07 per share loss on Europe's Best and a higher effective tax rate compared to the prior year.
These factors were partially offset by the benefit of a lower share count in the current year.
The cost of goods sold increase of 30% for the quarter was primarily due to higher recognized green coffee oils and flour costs in the current year.
Net price increases taken over the past year largely offset these higher costs resulting in an increase in gross profit of $5 million.
Included in the current year's results was a $10 million unfavorable adjustment from unrealized mark-to-market adjustments on derivative contracts compared to a $6 million unfavorable adjustment in the prior year.
SG&amp;A expenses increased 6% for the quarter reflecting higher selling and administrative expenses and the acquisition of Rowland Coffee.
Total marketing expense was equal to the prior year.
The increase in SG&amp;A expenses and the loss on the Europe's Best divestiture were the primary causes of a $22 million decline in operating income excluding special project costs.
Excluding the loss on Europe's Best operating income was down 4%.
The effective income tax rate was 34.1% in the second quarter compared to 32.5% in the prior year.
The increase is primarily due to a higher Canadian effective tax rate and an increase in state income tax expense.
We now anticipate a full year effective tax rate between 33.5% and 34% consistent with the rates for the first half of the year.
Capital expenditures were $68 million in the quarter bringing the total to $136 million for the first half of the year.
This level of spending puts us right on track with our full year expectation of $250 million to $275 million.
Free cash flow of approximately $450 million is expected contingent upon our year-end inventory balance and other changes in working capital.
During the quarter we entered the public debt market for the first time in the company's history issuing $750 million in 10-year notes.
The combination of a historically low rate environment a strong interest in our initial issuance and a solid investment grade rating allowed us to issue the debt at a favorable 3.5% coupon rate.
A portion of the proceeds were used to repay borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility.
We also anticipate using a portion of the proceeds to fund the expected Sara Lee foodservice beverage acquisition.
As a result of the additional debt we now project full year net interest expense of approximately $80 million.
This increase reflects the incremental interest expense and the impact of terminating our interest rate swaps.
While we settle the swap and realize a significant net gain the accounting rules require us to recognize the benefit over the remaining life of the underlying debt.
Lastly during the quarter we repurchased approximately 540 000 common shares that remain available under the 10b5-1 plan entered into in March of this year utilizing nearly $40 million of cash.
An additional 2.5 million shares remain available for repurchase under previous board authorization.
We will continue to evaluate the appropriate timing to execute any future buybacks.
Let me conclude by updating our outlook for the remainder of the fiscal year.
Contributions from the expected Sara Lee foodservice acquisitions are not reflected in this guidance.
Based on current estimates the impact on earnings per share is not expected to be material in the current fiscal year.
For the full year we expect net sales percent growth in the mid-teens driven primarily by net price realization.
We anticipate a year-over-year COGS increase in the low 20% range excluding the acquisition.
Although the second quarter represented a peak in our commodity cost curve we still expect significantly higher costs in the back half of the year most notably for green coffee in the third quarter and peanuts in the fourth.
While continuing to recover higher cost through pricing actions this will further pressure gross margin.
We are aggressively manage administrative expenses and discretionary spending and expect SD&amp;A to come in below the 10% year-over-year increase included in our original guidance.
We're revising our guidance range for non-GAAP income per diluted share of $4.90 to $5 primarily to reflect the Europe's Best loss and the incremental interest expense.
Placement in the range will depend on a number of factors but most significantly on volume in the back of the year which we expect to be down 2% to 3% from the prior year.
We'd also like to point out that we expect to see swings in the performance of our Coffee and consumer food segments over the last 2 quarters.
The impact of the higher green coffee costs will negatively impact the U.S.
Retail Coffee segment in the third quarter with improvement expected in the fourth.
Conversely Consumer Food should have a very strong third quarter followed by a weaker fourth.
In summary we achieved record sales in the quarter while successfully managing through the expected high point in our commodity cost curve for the year.
We continue to realize strong contributions from our strategic growth drivers of product innovation and acquisitions.
We have excellent merchandising programs in place for the holiday period and we feel confident about the underlying fundamentals of our business as we head into the remainder of our fiscal year.
I would now like to turn the call back to Richard.
Before we move on to take your questions I want to discuss one additional item.
As you know product quality and consumer safety have always been a priority for our company and we take pride in our track record in this area.
When we do experience an issue on this front we always approach it with an abundance of caution for consumers.
Working with the FDA and our retail customers we have recalled a small quantity of Smucker's 16-ounce Natural Chunky peanut butter due to a quality issue.
We are confident that this issue is isolated and identified it as a result of the thorough testing methods that are in place in at all of our manufacturing facilities.
We have been successful in retrieving the majority of this product.
But as you may have seen we issued a press release last evening in an effort to further ensure consumer safety.
Our team continues to work diligently to retrieve the remaining product which is approximately 300 cases and we thank them for their efforts.
We do not expect any material financial impact on the company.
We thank you for your time today and now are happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just some clarifications first up on Mark on what you said.
Just to be clear so your tax rate is a bit higher.
So that's a hit to your annual guidance.
And the -- sorry I think you said $80 million of net interest expense over the year that doesn't include the swap mentioned like $17 million or $18 million does it? No it doesn't Eric.
What it includes is the swap actually is a favorable.
It will reduce interest expense but that will be over the next several years.
So it's primarily the impact of the additional debt.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So all right.
And then I guess to a I don't know who will take this but the difference between the third quarter and the fourth quarter and reversal of what's happening with coffee versus consumer can you go into that not just from a I guess a cost perspective but is there also a top line relevance to that comment? Eric this is Mark Belgya.
I'll just start.
In terms of the cost that we've called out obviously peanuts in the fourth quarter but also as the guidance they want to add to it but there's really no top line.
It's just driven more by the commodity costs of peanuts in the fourth and green coffee in the third.
Research Division</strong> I guess nobody else cares to comment? I think everyone's in agreement with that.
We'll go next to Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
Richard and Mark and all the others Vince what are you judging right now is the consumer tolerance for shelf price increases? This is Richard.
And then I'll turn it to Vince.
But we have a lot of models that say if you take your prices up as much as we've taken them and had to take them because of commodity price increases that would have a much significant -- more significant impact on volume than it has.
And so my gut feel and my feeling is that we've done a very good job of passing these on and making sure that we're competitive in the marketplace with our competition.
So being down 1% in volume for the quarter with the size price increases that we've had to endure we think is much better than models would show and I think is benefit to our team for doing what they've been able to do.
Yes I really don't have much more to add.
I think we're very very pleased with where our volume is given the pricing actions that we've taken.
There are some categories that we mentioned that are being challenged primarily from a competitive standpoint as opposed to a consumer takeaway perspective.
So net-net we feel very very good at this point.
That's nice.
Next question is the competitive activity.
What are you seeing there especially on the private label side and in areas where there's just a shortage of the raw products such as peanuts? Can private label even respond well in that situation? Chuck this is Paul.
First off on oils we are seeing an increase in some private label discounting and it's primarily at some -- a few retailers not across the board.
And I think other than these key retailers we're actually doing pretty well in the oils business.
So we know it's a challenge.
We'll be facing probably for a little bit ongoing but overall we feel pretty good about our business there.
On the peanut side again as you know we feel very good about our peanut supply and our commitment going forward.
And I think there is going to be a challenge for other peanut butter producers but I think in our case we're going to be in good shape.
This is Mark Smucker.
Just on coffee I echo Richard's comments I think very succinct there.
I would say just on the private label side that private label has seen some good growth in the nonmeasured channel.
But again I think where our pricing is and the activities that we have in place we have been doing a pretty good job of managing the business through that.
We'll go next to Scott Mushkin with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Mike Otway in for Scott.
First question we have was around K-Cups.
We've seen Green Mountain K-Cups and Folgers at retail now at the same price and with Starbucks doing K-Cups and Dunkin' K-Cups available at the franchises how should we be thinking about all of this vis-à-vis your K-Cup business as well as your traditional ground coffee business? Well this is Mark Smucker again.
First of all I would say our K-Cup sales continue to outperform our expectations and we feel that there is tremendous upside continuing in the segment.
And frankly we think that the new entry by Starbucks will actually help grow the category.
So we think that long term it's probably good for the category and we're very confident that we can continue to grow in that area.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then secondly it sounds like the -- some of the volume growth in peanut butter was due to you guys kind of stepping back in on the promotional side and as well maybe some folks buying ahead of the price increases.
Any color on maybe what that split was? And I guess secondly do you think you'll be stepping up the promotional level with some of your other brands to try and drive volume? Yes Mike.
This is Paul.
On the peanut butter side we did experience a little bit of the volume in the second quarter but we implemented and mandated an allocation process by customer and that really mitigated a lot of that buying.
So we did see some -- a little bit of consumer hoarding you could say.
But it really wasn't that significant and we'd anticipate some good growth going forward on peanut butter.
As far as some of the other brands are concerned again we feel going through this fall bake time period we're well positioned and feel good about where we are.
We'll hear next from David Driscoll with Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> This is Alexis Borden in for David this morning.
We were wondering if you could talk a little bit about the decline in green coffee costs and specifically on the effect on the business and specifically focusing on 2 issues.
One a year ago you guys if we remember correctly had gained from -- we believe you had favorable gains from hedges.
And two given that the green cost -- the cost of coffee has gone down do you feel pressure now to lower prices on coffee? This is Mark Smucker again.
Thanks for the question.
I think it really goes back to precisely what was in the script.
As you know we experienced very favorable margins in the first quarter expected our highest costs in the second quarter and fortunately costs have tapered off more or less as we expected.
And we have reflected much of that in our August price increase.
So going forward just to reiterate I think what's been said before costs will continue to moderate but they will continue to be higher than last year in the third quarter and begin to continue that tapering effect in the fourth.
Yes I would just add that the pricing action that we took in August the price decrease is in good position relative to our coffee cost for the balance of the year.
And so we would not anticipate any further action at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So even though prices are going down you're not expecting at this point to lower the price even more? But again we took that into account in the pricing action we took in August given our position at that time.
We'll go next to Ed Aaron with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So your sales guidance changed a little bit for the full year but it doesn't sound like your cost outlook really came down.
So wondering if you could just tell us the sales guidance change is that a reflection of different volume expectations or different levels of pricing? This is Mark Belgya.
It really was pretty much reflective of the volume.
As I've mentioned in my scripted comments we expect the back half to be pretty close to the first half performance in terms of overall volumes down 2 to 3 percentage points but it was really that as opposed to pricing.
LLC Research Division</strong> And from a category perspective the volume change versus expectations where would you -- how would you kind of break that down? Well I think mix will continue to be favorable.
Mix will be favorable.
We see some declines on the oil side.
Flour obviously is probably going to be down.
Peanut butter should be up.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just one quick follow-up question.
The back half of the year from an inflation perspective I know you have higher coffee cost in Q3 and then moderating from there but then peanuts are kind of the inverse of that.
Do you expect your overall inflation levels to be higher in Q3 or Q4 or should they be about the same by quarter? I would estimate them to be pretty much in line quarter-to-quarter.
I mean overall I think our COGS as we said are going to be 20%.
So I mean it could swing a couple percentage points up or down from that.
We'll go next to Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to clarify your core operating guidance a bit better.
If there were no loss on sale if there were no mark-to-market charge in gain...
Excuse me Ken.
This is Mark.
Research Division</strong> There were hedging issues no changes to tax rates none of that would you have adjusted your guidance at all? Ken this is Mark Belgya.
I'm sorry but the volume -- we just couldn't hear your question.
Research Division</strong> Is this better? A little.
Research Division</strong> Can you hear me now? Go ahead.
Research Division</strong> Okay I'll try again.
I'm on the road.
I just wanted to clarify your core operating guidance a bit better.
If there were no loss on sale if there were no mark-to-market charges none of these other gains or hedging issues and really if your tax rate had come in in line would you have adjusted your guidance at all? Well yes we would have because again if you look at between the Europe's Best and the interest I mean that's about $0.14 to $0.15 in total.
So yes we would have.
And I know that everyone kind of looks at the loss differently but we felt it was appropriate to reduce our guidance by that $0.07 and then also the interest.
So yes we would have.
But our base...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But what [indiscernible]...
If your question is is our base business still solid and still within original plans the answer is yes it is.
So those adjustments really -- so our adjustments...
Research Division</strong> That's my exact question.
Well then that's the answer.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then one more.
One of your largest customers said yesterday it was not taking its food retail prices up nearly as quickly as its costs were rising.
And then privately speaking with some of that competitors' -- with that customers' competitors they said these claims were overstated that really no retailers were being particularly irrational now that pricing across all the retailers was not -- and without naming names of course have you seen rational retail pricing behavior from all of your primary customers or are any of them purposefully eating some margin in your opinion to attract more volume? Yes I guess to me this is important because if retailers are willing to eat more margin you and your -- and other manufacturers right they can take pricing and maybe not experience quite as much elasticity as you might have thought.
Just curious how you're seeing that right now.
Ken this is Vince.
I think it is fair to say if you look over the past 12 to 18 months when prices were escalating across all manufacturers that there were some key categories including some of ours where pricing was not being fully reflected up or down.
And I think that's fair when you even look at their results and in terms of their margin expectations.
So I think that is a fair comment.
At this particular point net-net I think we feel that our pricing is probably where it should be.
There are a couple of exceptions to that but it is a fair comment that your -- your point you're trying to make.
We'll go next to Farha Aslam with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> First just a modeling question.
Mark you had said that $17 million to $18 million interest rate hits swap benefit is going to come in the next several years.
Could you just give us some color? Is it 3-year 5-year or 7 years? Yes Farha it's actually attributed to 2 underlying debt issuances.
So the first one I believe expire -- or matures in 2018 and then the second piece applies to debt we just issued.
So I mean ballpark-ish I would say sort of $3 million to $4 million between 2012 and 2017 2018 and then you'll actually see some interest or some additional interest expense in these last couple years that relate to the most recent issue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you just share with us the synergies you anticipate from your acquisitions going into next year particularly with Rowland and Sara Lee? Did Rowland help you launch those individual sticks this quarter? And what the synergies were and kind of how you're thinking about earnings.
Of course the first year of Sara Lee is going to be neutral but how you expect that growth and cost synergies to flow through the P&amp;L in future periods.
Yes Farha this is Mark Smucker.
First of all I think your question was around the instant sticks.
That is not a Rowland related.
That's a strictly Folgers branded product.
That is essentially our Folgers instant in an individual serving.
And in terms of the synergies we would expect that they will be on track.
The integration of the business has gone well but really the synergies will happen once we transition the operations to New Orleans from Miami.
And as we've said that is on a 2- to 4-year time frame from the time of the acquisition.
Farha Steve.
With regard to Sara Lee we anticipate closing early in the calendar year and the synergies for that will start to happen similar to Rowland when we can number one put it on our systems; and number two integrate the operations into New Orleans.
We think the first will happen sort of midway through next fiscal year and then the operations will happen sometime 12 to 36 months later.
We'll have some detail on that later in -- probably in this fiscal year we'll have better plans that we can announce on that.
We'll go next to Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on Ken Goldman's question.
You've effectively reiterated profit guidance for the year.
Despite the new challenges that have come up in the peanut butter category are there other parts of the business that are coming through better than expected at the beginning of the year? And what do you see is the key uncertainties that are going to shape the outcome in the second half because there's a lot of moving pieces here? Alexia it's Mark Belgya.
In terms of managing really the couple percentage point volume decline we'd see I think you're aware that we have actually delivered SD&amp;A below our expectations for the first half of the year.
I think early on in June we said we were going to get about 10% and average is probably closer to 6% right now.
We'll probably be able to continue that trend of 6% to 7% year-over-year SD&amp;A kind of growth.
We're really spending a lot of time focusing on discretionary spending and identifying opportunities to help to manage that a bit.
And that's where a good portion of it will come for the last 6 months.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And then in terms of uncertainties for the second half I'm thinking more on the operational side within the segment? This is Richard.
In general I think we feel really pretty good because we build it from a pricing standpoint we're well positioned versus where the commodity costs are.
We have our plans in place certainly for Fall Bake.
Those are all and we're really just waiting for the sell-through and which seems to be going very well.
Our indication's doing well.
And then the back half of the year we have a number of programs that are already in place and in line with our customers.
So I guess we're feeling pretty good about that it's going to be pretty stable business for the remainder of the year and right in line with our expectations.
And again our base business is very solid and really no changes to those forecasts.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to Rob Dickerson with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Okay I just had a couple quick questions clarification.
And I don't mean to beat the dead horse as you've always say for -- on guidance.
But I do want to be clear here that I guess guidance comes down basically by $0.10 to $0.15.
$0.15 $0.07 of that is from a onetime charge from the loss from the business that you bought and 2008 sold to [indiscernible] but there's no commentary around loss of run rate profitability for the rest of this year or there's no readjustment of last year of taking that out it's just a loss.
That's kind of what I'm hearing from the $0.07.
And so then I guess the question is is there any additional color around any other effect from last year or this year from the asset sale one? And then two is could you provide any color when we could see some benefit in EPS potentially just be it buyback what have you from the increase in credit and therefore interest? Rob it's Mark Belgya.
Couple comments around Europe’s Best.
And just to frame it and I know you guys know most of this but last year we had an impairment charge in the third quarter and then the loss this quarter.
In terms of impact on run rate it really is not material.
The sales for the business had decreased over the last year or 2 and so the sales takeout for the back half of the year will just not be material.
We'll cover that through growth in existing Canadian business.
So you'll see no additional commentary or impact.
In terms of ways to potentially drive a little more EPS growth in the scripted comments we talked about we still have 2.5 million shares available under authorization.
And I think we've been pretty true to our word that when appropriate we'll go into the market and repurchase shares to help support the EPS.
We have those shares there and we will continue to look at opportunities to do that.
And then again as I mentioned we will continue to look at the SD&amp;A side.
We feel comfortable about being able to reduce the overall or to grow it at a slower rate I should say and we'll just continue to challenge the team to find opportunities to do that.
But I think those are the 2 or 3 triggers that may offer up some additional EPS outside of the normal business units.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Perfect.
And then one quick one.
I know before you've targeted $450 million I believe in free cash flow for the year.
It looks like so far for 6 months you're negative.
So I guess one is if the expectation is that there will be a sizable ramp in free cash flow or cash from ops in the back half.
And then also if you could provide any color update us to what could cause free cash flow to ramp in next fiscal year.
Yes in terms of the free cash flow you're basically seeing a trend that is pretty much the norm in the last couple -- our first half of the year as you know we have to build inventories in advance of a couple things.
One is our Fall Bake and Holiday.
One is in advance of the Atlantic hurricane season as it relates to coffee.
Add to that we're in the transition as we've talked about with the facilities in New Orleans so we've actually built a little bit more coffee inventory to make that move smooth.
Layer on top of all that the cost environment that we're dealing in.
So that's why our inventory and our working capital use in the first half has been significant.
That will turn just through the normal sell-through of Fall Bake and as well we're going to actively try to manage down some of that inventory.
Lower costs will certainly help as well.
So you will see a big increase in cash from operations in the back half particularly probably in the third quarter.
You'll have seen the same trend last year.
And then again I think looking at what we can do from an inventory perspective is the best way that we can sort of ramp up working capital and cash generation.
And again lower commodity cost will go a long way in helping that.
But you will see a turn and thus we feel good about the free cash flow number.
We'll go next to Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I know you all try and match to the best you can in businesses like coffee your pricing and cost dynamics to try and at least protect sort of the profit dollars piece of it.
And I guess that's what was toughest to do in coffee this quarter and it didn't happen that way.
As you think forward into the third quarter I know costs in coffee have peaked.
They'll still be high in the fiscal third quarter.
Can you get to a place where the profit dollars are at least protected and up year-over-year in coffee in the third quarter? And the reason I ask is because if not I guess that will be 2 quarters in a row where that didn't happen and that just seems to be I guess a longer period of time than you typically like to have when you're trying to match those 2 things in that business.
Andrew this is Vince.
In a broad sense yes we do -- first of all we manage the business for the long term and to grow gross profit dollars for the year.
We know that from time to time we're going to have a quarter based upon our position and what our pricing strategy is those margins may fluctuate.
As we look at the -- as Mark said and as we said it formally in the script we feel very good that we'll be able to grow the gross profit dollars by the end of the fiscal year and we're not coming off of that.
We will have some quarter fluctuations and last year's third quarter was a record quarter that we need to keep in mind.
The other thing is as we said in the formal remarks in the second quarter we had a $7 million hit on mark-to-market adjustment.
So a lot of things going on and a lot of play.
At the end of the day we're managing towards the business for the long term to grow these gross profit dollars.
Andrew I might just comment this is Richard.
You know these commodity costs have been more volatile not just on coffee but on every commodity that we've purchased than they have been historically...
Research Division</strong> Yes they've been extreme.
And managing that is tough.
And I think our teams and the positions we take both hedging and puts and calls have done pretty good job of doing that.
But to do it quarter-by-quarter it's difficult because we really do take a long-term perspective.
So I guess what my feeling is we've done a good job in the very volatile markets that we have.
Fortunately at least the last couple of months the volatility seems to have dropped a little bit but not where we all would like to see it.
But again we manage for the long term.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that.
And then the cost dynamic clearly has been truly extreme.
So I appreciate the perspective.
One quick follow-up would just be is the innovation agreement or partnership that you have with Sara Lee going forward can that ultimately extend beyond just the sort of the foodservice piece or just the liquid foodservice piece and -- or is it just a matter of let's kind of see how it goes and we'll kind of take it year by year? Andrew Steve.
The innovation agreement with Sara Lee is focused on foodservice and we're excited about that because there's a pipeline of some great new equipment for us to bring to market in North America but it's not limited.
Obviously no agreement is limited for the long term but we're going to focus on foodservice.
We're going to get to know each other.
And if opportunities come up as we go forward we're going to take a look at those together and there's a commitment on both sides to do that.
But we're going to try to get it focused on getting this liquid business achieving the opportunities that we see in front of us for the liquid.
Yes Andrew this is Richard again.
Just -- but this is a partnership and we see it -- regardless of what's on paper we see this as a real partnership going forward.
And the great thing is they're in markets that we're not in geographically.
They're in Europe and South America and we're in North America.
So it does provide us a good partnership.
We'll go next to Brian Holland with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is Brian stepping in for Mitch this morning.
Just a couple questions on the coffee side here.
First of all can you talk at all about any impact that the Dunkin' Donuts K-Cup launch on the franchisee side what impact that might have had on the bag business in the quarter on volume if you're seeing any? It's Mark here.
Very little if any.
I think going back to what we've said previously the Dunkin’ K-Cups that are being sold in their coffee shops again will help to grow the category and we have not seen any impact on bag coffee sales.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if you could talk at all about some of the recent acquisitions you've had within the coffee business any opportunity to roll out those brands any of those brands out into the K-Cup platform the Keurig platform at all in the future? As we've said I think in the past we obviously value our partnership with Green Mountain.
And at this point we look at all of our opportunities.
But at this point we are holding firm with the brands that we currently are selling in the marketplace.
And we'll go to Eric Katzman for a follow-up.
Research Division</strong> I guess this goes to maybe Richard and Steve.
I guess I understand the technology associated with the Sara Lee agreement et cetera.
But I kind of question the interest in the foodservice side.
I mean I know Procter really didn't care about that.
So it's to a certain extent wide open.
But historically hasn't that been a much much lower margin business? How does that jive with kind of the retail side of things? And how does that like kind of come together from a profit perspective over time? Sure.
Eric Steve.
Let me try to address that and Richard if you have some thoughts.
A couple key.
If you look at it macro okay? 2/3 of the coffee consumed in America and in North America is consumed away from home okay? So it's a big universe.
And we think it's important as the leader in North America to have our brands in those key segments okay? And if you look at all the major competitors they've got brands away from home at the office at home okay? So if you look at that the Sara Lee piece we didn't buy the whole thing.
We just bought a slice of that.
We bought primarily their liquid coffee technology which is that's where Douwe Egbert and the brands we've got there are clearly the leaders right? And so there are segments of foodservice candidly they are very attractive.
This deal gives us not just that technology but it gives us a direct sales force and E&amp;S equipment and service organization.
It will allow us to pick and choose where we play.
And what they didn't have and a lot of the foodservice folks don't have is a big brand.
So we think those things combined will allow us to pick our spots.
It's not an all-inclusive.
We're not going after everything.
We did not take the operations.
So we're not saddled with capacity we have to fill like they had.
We think it gives us a nice opportunity to pick those profitable segments and do it with technology do it with brand.
Yes Eric this is Richard.
Steve said it very well.
The one operations we did take was their Suffolk plant in Virginia which is a "state of the art" facility.
It's one of the best plants I've seen anywhere.
And then I would also just add that the good thing about liquid coffee technology it reminds me very much of coke syrup and coke concentrate and that's been pretty successful for them over the last 100 years or so.
So in a small way we're participating in something similar technologically.
Right.
The plants we did not take are the roasting ground plants.
We took their "state of the art" liquid coffee extract plant.
Research Division</strong> Richard maybe in 50 years we can kind of discuss that.
Yes maybe 40.
Yes we may not...
Research Division</strong> So the protest going on outside my office it may only be a couple of days so I don't know.
So do you intend to -- so basically you're not taking the Douwe Egberts brand.
You're going to -- are you going to put the Folgers brand on their machines and that's going to be kind of your approach within that market? Eric we think 2 things.
We have a license agreement for Douwe Egbert that gives us plenty of room to transition the right brands.
And as you know we have the Folgers brand the Millstone brand the Bustelo brand.
We've got brands that play in different segments and they've got equipment that makes everything from a cappuccino and a latte to an iced coffee to a traditional long cup of coffee.
So depending on where they are if it's front of house unlimited lodging if it's back of house in an upscale white tablecloth restaurant we've got brands that fit those different segments.
So I think it will be a variety of brands and it will be the formula and the taste profile that meets the operators' needs and best reaches the consumer.
So it will be all of those brands.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a quick follow-up to Richard on the M&amp;A front you've obviously been pretty active with Rowland and now Sara Lee.
Do you think are you pausing for a bit? Or do we -- do you think the organization is ready for even additional M&amp;A if it presents itself? Well you really can never pause in M&amp;A in the sense that if there's a brand out there or a relationship that you want to have.
That is time sensitive most of the time.
And so I think everybody would like to take a pause a little bit while we integrate these.
But if the right thing comes around we have a great team and I have 100% confidence that they could execute.
We'll take our last question from Ken Goldman.
Research Division</strong> Not to have all grocery-oriented questions here but I did a bunch of supermarket store tours recently and looking at some of the peanut butter shelves they were cleaned out a bit.
And a couple of the CEOs told me they literally couldn't get enough peanut butter that Smucker Unilever and ConAgra all are putting some items in allocation.
Maybe this isn't a national issue maybe it's not even accurate.
And I realize you cut out a few SKUs months ago.
But on those items you're making are you able to supply right now 100% of the peanut butter that I guess your customers are asking for? Ken this is Paul.
I think the answer to that question is again we are in a mandatory allocation situation.
That being said we're able to supply the demand that we're primarily being requested on from a customer perspective.
There are some customers that would like to have more always because of the current situation.
But again we feel very good with our position what we've been able to supply and our supply going forward through the rest of this fiscal year we feel very good about.
Research Division</strong> And as far as you can tell are your competitors in anywhere in a particularly worse or better situation that you're in without naming names again.
But just I'm curious as you get into this situation more and more what you're seeing there.
I would again just say from our perspective I think we're in very good shape and our relationships we have with our peanut shellers are very good and so I just comment that our supply is sound.
I will now turn the conference back to management to conclude.
Well we wanted to thank everybody for their attention today and we're confident that the year is going to be solid and we appreciate your time.
Ladies and gentlemen if you wish to access the rebroadcast after this live call you may do so by dialing 1 (888) 203-1112 or 1 (719) 457-0820 with the passcode of 4025348 or by accessing the website for downloadable MP3 format.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to The J.M.
Smucker Company Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference over to Sonal Robinson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Ms.
Robinson.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our third quarter earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
On the call with me are Richard Smucker Chief Executive Officer; Vince Byrd President and Chief Operating Officer; Mark Belgya Chief Financial Officer; Steve Oakland President International Foodservice and Natural Foods; Mark Smucker President U.S.
Retail Coffee; and Paul Smucker Wagstaff President U.S.
Retail Consumer Foods.
After this brief introduction I will turn the call over to Richard for opening remarks.
Vince will then provide commentary on the dynamics occurring within our business segments and Mark will close with additional comments on our financial results for the quarter and our outlook for the year.
During the call today we may make forward-looking statements that reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates and actual results may differ materially due to risks and uncertainties.
I invite you to read the full disclosure statement in the press release concerning forward-looking statements.
Let me also remind you that the company uses non-GAAP results for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.
Additional discussion on non-GAAP information is detailed in our press release located on our website at smuckers.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the website.
If you have any follow-up questions or comments after today's call please contact me or Mark Belgya.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Sonal.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
By now you have seen our financial results for the third quarter which were obviously below our historical performance levels as well as our and your expectations.
On today's call we will provide an update on the dynamics that challenged the business in the quarter and discuss our plans to address the issues going forward and why we remain optimistic and confident in our plans.
First to ground everyone.
We now anticipate cost increases in excess of $500 million for the full year which we have been covering primarily with price increases along with expense cuts and productivity gains.
To put this into perspective our net pricing increased approximately 16% for the quarter which we believe is more than double the average inflation rate in the food sector.
With leading brands in most categories where we compete we have maintained price leadership and transparency with our retailers and have been responsible with both price increases and decreases when commodity cost warrants such adjustment.
Although we expected volume to decline during the quarter the magnitude of the decline was unexpected.
Consumer takeaway declined sharply in a number of our categories during the Fall Bake and Holiday season.
This is consistent with IRI data which indicated that year-over-year the overall volume of food and beverage sold through measured channels decreased 4% for the 12-week period ended January 22 reaching a new 5-year low.
This time period of course aligned fairly closely with our own quarter.
Other factors notably significantly higher price points on a number of our key items consumer pantry loading of peanut butter ahead of our November price increase a reduction in retail inventory levels and aggressive pricing by a few key competitors and retailers further impacted the volume shortfall.
In a moment Vince will discuss these dynamics as they relate to our 3 largest categories.
Sell-through was disappointing considering we entered the period with sound marketing and merchandising plans in place as we discussed on our call last quarter.
As our marketing and sales teams performed post-holiday reviews we saw an increase in the number of bake centers and Smucker items included on these bake centers as we expected.
In addition our holiday advertising and social media were well executed.
The difference played out in the actual consumer takeaway relative to what we had expected from our promotional activities.
For example in our core Folgers Coffee offering this year's promoted price point of $8.99 was 30% less than the un-promoted everyday price but it was substantially higher than last year's promoted price of $6.99.
As stated we expected the volume to be down somewhat but it was down greater than we thought.
Having identified the reasons for the overall volume decline we are actively addressing the issues with pricing along with taking other actions aimed at strengthening the business.
First let me say that we do not view our quarter's results or the consumers' behavior as fundamental changes that would affect our business model.
We want to emphasize that we are confident in our long-term strategy and expect the consumer to adapt to adjusted market prices over the coming quarters.
Over the past several months commodity costs have generally declined with the exception of peanuts and sugar.
Coffee which is our largest purchase commodity has seen recent Arabica futures average around $2.20 a pound.
This compares to over $2.75 a pound just a few months ago.
If costs continue at the current levels we would likely take a coffee price decrease early in fiscal 2013 and expect a positive volume impact from this action.
As commodity costs moderate we will continue evaluating opportunities to adjust pricing and promotional activities in other categories as well.
We also continue to invest in our brands and we use the consumer analyst group of New York's conference next week as an opportunity to provide an update on a number of new products and marketing initiatives.
While the quarter was challenging there were a number of key accomplishments.
First we closed the acquisition of the Sara Lee North American foodservice hot beverage business in January and are making great progress on integration.
We have targeted May 1 as the date we plan on transitioning customer ordering and invoicing manufacturing and green coffee processes onto our systems.
Second our Pillsbury Baking business was strong this quarter further strengthening its position as the #2 brand in the baking category gaining nearly 2 share points during the most recent 12-week period.
Third our brands outperformed significantly the closest competitor in most of our categories as measured by share of market.
And in general our market share remained strong across most of our categories.
Fourth K-Cups continued on its growth trajectory with sales in the U.S.
increasing $38 million or approximately 180% over last year.
We expect to achieve over $160 million in K-Cups sales this year.
And finally as Mark will further explain we increased our cash flow significantly during the quarter providing additional liquidity for growth and shareholder return.
Before I turn the call over to Vince I would like to acknowledge the efforts of our team.
During challenging times our employees persevere and work their hardest.
We thank them for what they have done and for what they will do as we move forward.
I would also like to welcome our new employees from Sara Lee to the Smucker Company.
While our tactics may change we are confident in our strategy of owning #1 brands sold in the center of the store.
As we have reiterated many times in the past we are focused on long-term growth and building our brands for the benefit of all of our constituents.
With that I will now turn the call over to Vince who will share more detail on the performance of key brands and categories as well as some exciting news about our relationship with Green Mountain Coffee Roasters.
Thank you Richard.
Good morning everyone.
Although net sales increased 12% in the quarter we are disappointed in the 10% volume decline that was primarily due to mainstream coffee peanut butter and oils.
As Richard noted in addition to the unfavorable consumer trends the primary factors affecting our results were: first higher promoted and un-promoted price points during the holiday period as a result of our price leadership actions; second consumer pantry loading of peanut butter in advance of our price increase was greater than we had originally estimated; third selected retailers chose to reduce inventories significantly over what we have experienced in the past as well as use their private label to drive traffic during the holiday period; and finally although our teams monitor and adjust our tactics real-time in many cases we made conscious decisions not to take short-term irresponsible pricing actions to meet competitive pressures that would have resulted in negative returns.
Having said that we remain optimistic for a number of reasons including: the overall contribution of new products across the portfolio; the moderation of costs for many of our key commodities; our share of market remains healthy; the growth opportunities from the recently acquired Cafe Bustelo and Cafe Pilon brands and the Sara Lee foodservice business; and finally the significant progress being made on our key supply chain initiatives with all milestones remaining on track.
Now let me provide some more details on the segments starting with U.S.
Retail Coffee.
The ongoing stratification of the consumer base was very apparent in our results this quarter.
At one end of the spectrum our Folgers value offering which we call opening price point experienced a 67% volume increase over the prior year.
This product is typically priced approximately 30% less than our core Folgers Classic Roast.
At the other end of the spectrum K-Cups sales were nearly $60 million for the quarter or nearly 3x the sales of the prior year.
Also our Dunkin' premium [ph] -- Dunkin' Donuts coffee brand realized 4% volume growth reversing 3 consecutive quarters of volume decline.
Incremental sales of Dunkin' Donuts seasonals drove the increase.
In the middle of these 2 ranges is where we saw the higher price points have the most effect on consumer behavior impacting our core Folgers roast and ground business.
This was the primary driver in the overall volume decline for the segment.
Aggressive private label pricing at certain key retailers also contributed to the decline.
Coffee segment profit decreased for the quarter as a result of the lower Folgers volume and the impact of significantly higher green coffee cost.
Despite the challenging quarter we increased our marketing expense 4% over the prior year's third quarter.
As a reminder last year's segment profit was an all-time record high in terms of dollars.
As we look into the fourth quarter we expect overall volume to be down versus last year but improved from the third quarter.
We expect strong contributions from Rowland brands and the continued K-Cup growth.
With these factors combined with moderating green coffee costs we expect a quarter-over-quarter increase in segment profit for coffee.
Finally within coffee we are pleased to announce we have reached an agreement with Green Mountain Coffee Roasters to include the Folgers Gourmet Selections and Millstone brands as part of the new Keurig Vue brewing system.
This will allow us to continue with our current K-Cup business while expanding our branded presence into this new single-serve platform.
We look forward to sharing more details around this exciting opportunity with you in the future.
Turning now to Consumer Foods.
Sales and segment profit increased 7% and 4% respectively.
Starting with peanut butter volume was down double digits while profits were up.
While we effectively managed customer volume it appears there was consumer pantry loading during the second quarter due to the high level of media coverage in advance of our price increase.
In addition we were impacted by a competitor who promoted back much of the price increase and kept the everyday shelf price below $3.
Looking forward we believe our prudent actions taken to manage challenges related to the 2011 peanut crop have positioned us well.
We remain comfortable with our peanut supply heading into the remainder of the fiscal year.
Turning to Crisco.
Despite outstanding display activity our base oil business continued to be impacted significantly in the quarter by aggressive private label price points at a few key retailers.
Additionally the average price gap during the quarter for our 48-ounce Crisco offering widened considerably from the prior year exceeding our optimal gap objectives.
As a result we are currently evaluating opportunities to address the gap going forward.
During the quarter the Pillsbury brand realized strong sales growth as a combination of new products and strong sales of baking mixes led to an overall increase of 28%.
This growth has been led by the distribution gains and the continued success of our seasonal offerings along with a more stable competitive pricing environment all of which has contributed to market share increase.
Looking at the remainder of the year volume within the Consumer Foods segment will continue to be challenged resulting in similar overall volume decline as in the third quarter.
Additionally peanut costs will be significantly higher in the fourth quarter.
As such quarter-over-quarter segment profit is expected to decline.
For the International Foodservice and Natural Foods segment excluding the impacts of acquisitions divestitures and foreign exchange net sales increased 5%.
Price increases more than offset a 9% decline in volume.
Volume gains in Folgers Coffee were more than offset by declines in natural beverages Bick's pickles and Five Roses flour.
As anticipated the reentry of private label offerings into the pickle category in Canada drove a decline in our Bick's pickle brand.
In addition shortages in the supply of organic apples impacted the performance of our Natural Foods business.
Excluding the impact of an impairment charge in the prior year related to the previously owned Europe's Best business segment profit was down 17% primarily due to the lower volume.
As we look ahead we anticipate a solid finish to the fiscal year in this segment driven by our Canadian Natural Food business and the addition of the Sara Lee's North American foodservice hot beverage business.
I will now turn the call over to Mark to discuss our consolidated results and more importantly the outlook for the year.
Thank you Vince.
Our net sales increased $155 million reflecting a 16% impact of net price realization offset somewhat by the 10% volume decline.
Acquisition debt at $60 million or another 5% and sales mix was modestly favorable.
GAAP earnings per share were $1.03 this quarter and $1.11 in the third quarter of last year including restructuring and merger integration costs.
Excluding these special project costs earnings per share were $1.22 this quarter and $1.27 in last year's third quarter a decrease of 4%.
The impact of one-month ownership of the Sara Lee business was immaterial as expected.
As a reminder last year's results included $0.10 per share of impairment associated with certain assets at the previously owned Europe's Best business.
SG&amp;A expenses once again increased at a lesser rate than sales up only 5% for the quarter.
Total marketing expense was 4% above last year.
Expenses associated with Rowland Coffee and the Sara Lee business were the primary drivers of the increase.
The effective income tax rate was 34.1% in the third quarter compared to 32.6% in the prior year.
We expect the fourth quarter and full year effective tax rate of approximately 34%.
Turning to cash flow.
Our cash from operations set a quarterly record increasing $409 million in the quarter.
This was mostly due to a $220 million reduction in working capital resulting from the completion of the Fall Bake and Holiday season's transaction cycle.
Capital expenditures were $61 million in the quarter bringing the year's total to $197 million.
This resulted in free cash flow of $348 million.
We are still projecting approximately $270 million in CapEx for this year which falls within the original range provided earlier this year.
Let me now comment on our outlook for the remainder of this fiscal year.
As a result of the impact of the third quarter results and an expected continuation of the volume declines in the fourth quarter as compared to the prior year the company is lowering its net sales estimate and earnings guidance for the year.
Net sales for the full year are estimated at slightly above $5.5 billion up 15% over fiscal 2011.
Based on this guidance our fourth quarter net sales are also expected to increase approximately 15% over last year's fourth quarter and assumes a high single-digit volume decline.
Full year non-GAAP income per diluted share is expected to range from $4.60 to $4.65 down from the company's previous range of $4.90 to $5.
As a reminder the range includes $0.07 loss on the divestiture of the Europe's Best business in the second quarter.
The company's estimate reflects an immaterial amount of net earnings contribution from the Sara Lee foodservice acquisition completed last month and the current number of shares outstanding.
I would like to conclude with a few comments related to next year.
At this time we are not in a position to provide guidance for 2013.
However there are a number of factors that we believe will be net positive to next year's EPS.
While we expect some uncertainty around volumes for the next couple of quarters we would expect overall growth in the base business for the coming years.
In addition we expect to benefit from lower cost on coffee and certain other raw materials a full year's ownership of the Sara Lee foodservice business above-average growth of the Rowland brands and K-Cups additional savings from our supply chain projects notably in coffee in Canada and any future share repurchase activity.
We would expect these items to contribute enough to more than offset anticipated headwinds including higher peanut and sugar cost the impact of a full year's interest expense related to last year's October's public debt issuance and higher pension cost.
We will of course provide 2013 guidance in more details around each of these when we release year-end results in June.
With that we would like to open our call to your questions.
Operator if you would please queue up for the first call.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess it's just a bit surprising to see the company mentioned last quarter that it had gained share across 80% of its business whereas this quarter that obviously was flipped on its head.
And I guess we all know that the volume weakness across the industry is problematic but why do you think the company was so -- I guess was caught so flat-footed versus competition in the last couple of months? And then obviously I have a follow-up.
Eric this is Vince.
Let me start again by -- and then I'll turn it over to the Presidents.
I think we were very optimistic going into the quarter because we knew that we had very good merchandising plans put into place.
And although as we said in our formal remarks we anticipated that there would be some volume decline certainly we did not expect it to be at the levels that end up occurring.
And again that was primarily driven by our price points.
We performed better than our elasticity models had indicated and we also performed better than our #1 branded competitor in most of our categories during the period.
But to be very honest we started to see the tail-off in the last 4 to 5 weeks when we had some visibility to some share information some inventories with our VMI customers and so that in fact was a signal that the sell-through during the holiday period wasn't where we had hoped that it would be.
You also are very rare of how much the consumer industry down or the CPG industry is down but you have to keep in mind that our pricing actions were nearly 2.5x that of the overall industry.
And then lastly as I mentioned quite frankly although we have experienced inventory reductions by some major competitors previously it far exceeded what we've experienced over the last couple of years or ever.
And so I guess I would stop there and say that's the primary reasons overall.
Well this is Richard.
I would also say that our volume was down in the 10% but our units were down 8% because there was a shift in terms of sizes.
People bought smaller sizes because of the price points.
It's a little bit of sticker shock on some of our promoted prices versus last year.
And so I think the consumer needs to adjust to those.
Research Division</strong> Do any of the operating heads want to comment? Or shall I just do on a follow-up? Just do a follow-up and we'll take it -- we'll answer specifics Eric.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well I guess obviously somewhat related to the first question market share is one of the most expensive things to lose and therefore one of the most expensive things to recover.
It sounds like you're saying that your market share performance wasn't too bad in the quarter and then other players suffered even more.
That's hard to believe but I guess we'll see as some of the players report results in the next couple of weeks.
But can you give any kind of sense as to how much of the commodity rollover you feel like you're going to have to put back into the market to let's say stabilize share let alone keep your -- or keep your market shares flat to up? Yes.
So I think Eric if you look at our share overall I mean again we are in pretty good shape.
And again if you compare that to our #1 competitor when you roll it up across all the categories during that 12-week period we significantly outperformed them.
Obviously we know I think the crux of the issue is at the price points.
And as we see some moderation of some of our key commodities we know that there are thresholds that we need to get back to and that's why we feel confident going into the future periods with the moderation of the commodities that will allow us to drive down some price points to where they need to be.
So overall our share remains pretty solid.
We were down more than the category.
If you look at units there's no question.
But again we significantly outperformed our #1 branded competitors.
We'll take our next question from Ed Aaron with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So obviously the elasticities had been just surprisingly good before this so I think everybody is just trying to get a sense of whether this is kind of a new norm.
And obviously you don't think it is.
But just to kind of help clarify some of your comments can you help us understand how much you think that the retailer inventory destocking affected the quarter specifically? And then also what leads you to think that the peanut butter was more reflective of pantry loading being more aggressive than you thought as opposed to this category maybe being just a bit more elastic to very high price increases like we've seen? That first part of your question the answer is we believe it was between 1% and 2% volume for the entire quarter was affected by the inventory reduction.
And Paul will take the peanut butter.
Paul here.
On the peanut butter side obviously we -- as the volume was down more than we are anticipating we did have the higher price increase go into effect in November.
We had some pantry loading that occurred more than we anticipated in October and that was really driven by the media attention that was going on that time on the peanut crop and the overall potential for peanut shortages et cetera.
And so as the consumers lower their pantry we would expect to see some of that come back at the later -- latter part of the quarter.
And we haven't seen that come back yet and I think part of that is driven by the fact that the full price increase went into effect January 1.
So there is some of that sticker shock that still exists.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my follow-up on -- in terms of the sell-through some of your peers have been putting up numbers that are better than what the kind of the measured data would suggest and would indicate that the gap between the non-measured and the measured channels is kind of widening.
Do you -- your numbers don't really suggest that that is relevant to your business and I'm wondering if -- how you're viewing the non-measured channels in the last quarter and going forward? Well typically we over-index in non-measured channels to be honest with you so given that our business was soft it was soft in some of the non-measured channels.
Our next question comes from David Driscoll with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow-up on the coffee.
You made some comments here on the forward forecast in terms of your expectations that things get better.
But perhaps I just like to hear your thought process on -- as green coffee prices decline and they're already down significantly from their prior peaks earlier in '11 and as volumes in the category are weak do you anticipate an orderly decline in retail prices across the category? Or if I say this a little differently why shouldn't we expect some of your competitors to pressure your business with aggressive coffee price reductions? This is Mark.
First of all I think we do expect that coffee prices we have seen except in the last few days have been relatively consistently declining.
And although we won't comment specifically on our position we do view that we will continue to look at targeted spend in certain segments of the category and would anticipate that we would likely be able to take a measured decline in the beginning of our next fiscal year.
We would assume based on some of the information that we have that our competitors would be in a similar situation but we will keep an eye on that and we will respond accordingly.
Research Division</strong> And then 2 brief follow-ups just the -- on coffee the year ago Mark can you remind me -- in the year-ago period you had a gain I believe on your green coffee costs? How big was that gain because I think Vince said in the prepared script he reiterated the comment that the year-ago period was like the best coffee profits in company history.
How much of it was just like a one-time gain on green coffee positions? And then final point I don't know who want to take this one but you didn't make any comments on weather.
And as regards coffee I would think -- I'm a little surprised that you didn't perhaps because it's one of the warmest on record.
Maybe just give me some thoughts on that if you will.
It's Mark Belgya.
In terms of your first question you're right we did recognize the benefit of that but if you would go back and check the transcript we did not disclose that.
We typically don't quantify that kind of a benefit to the plus or to the negative but it’s clearly contributed to the strong quarter last year in coffee.
David this is Richard.
I would like to blame it on the weather but I can't really say that that is a factor.
We really don't know.
It may have some impact on it but we really don't have a way to measure that from year to year so -- although it may have had some small impact.
Research Division</strong> But do you think the impact would be small? I mean other companies we've seen fairly massive impacts because of the weather.
So -- I don't know I'm somewhat tempted to say that this is somewhat significantly a weather-related issue but I don't know.
I'll leave it there.
Well David I think it is fair to say that some of our Southern customers' volume has been affected because of weather patterns.
Snowbirds haven't gone south.
Some of the more comfort foods are not being consumed.
But as Richard indicated maybe it is a material impact but we just did not believe that that's the issue that faces us.
Our next question comes from Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to pick up a little bit on Ed's question on the channel -- the alternative channels.
And really I'm thinking more about the emerging channels not specifically Walmart the dollar stores and so on.
First of all in terms of the weakness in measured channel volumes do you have any view as to what's causing that? Is it the restaurant sector picking up? Is it this channel mix shift that's the primary driver there? And specifically how are you addressing this channel shift with the dollar store opportunities particularly given that you are so heavily dependent on the Walmart side of things.
Alexia this is Mark Smucker.
I'll start with the general comment on just the total non-measured channels.
If you aggregate in coffee our total business our share performance in coffee is slightly better than you would see in the measured channels.
And particularly dollar has been strong.
And in other areas of mass besides Wal-Mart we've had some strong results as well.
So I think your assessment is fair.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of your dollar store strategy is that something that you're very focused on now? Is that something that you're pushing? Alexia this is Paul.
And yes a dollar store obviously is an important part of our mix and we continue to look at different products that would fit that channel and we'll continue to do so as we go forward.
Our next question comes from Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
Any sense why the baking mix performance was so much stronger than the others even though it had a sizable price increase? What might be a -- of particular note there? Yes.
Hi Chuck this is Paul.
A couple things happened in baking.
First off is we had a great -- a lineup of new seasonal items and new products that launched and did very well during that time period.
We had great displays with our key retailers.
There were more bake-centers than there were last year.
So those are some of the key reasons.
In addition from a pricing perspective we really didn't take price on cake and cake was a key contributor to some of the growth in the category.
So it was mostly in flour price increases? We had flour.
We had frosting.
We had some of our other flanker items on the baking side of the business that we did take the price up anywhere from 4% to 20% depending on what product line we're talking about.
We had a very good quarter in baking.
Looking at private label the share loss you saw to that broad competitor was it concentrated among various retailers? Or was there a mass consumer run towards private label? Yes well it varies by category but the primary driver was one major retailer on oils and coffee.
But I mean if you look at it across maybe an all-outlook view clearly there was some private label growth during the 12-week period.
But it was primarily affected in the 2 categories I referenced so coffee and base oils.
And specific to 1 or 2 customers.
We'll take our next question from Andrew Lazar with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I'm just -- I guess I want to explore a little bit if you're generally pleased with sort of the overall process of the pricing protocols that you use in coffee.
I ask because I know a couple of quarters ago you talked about a -- beginning sort of a price decline in process in coffee and yet we have had a couple of quarters still where [indiscernible] costs have been a lot higher.
So obviously there's been a little bit of a mismatch there.
And I know at the time there was a discussion over whether this was just the protocol and being transparent with retailers or if there was some greater concern around volume elasticity and such.
And I asked because going forward the discussion around putting some price back in the way you normally would it just seems like normally a category like this lags pricing on the way up and then lags in terms of pricing in reaction to costs coming down on the way down.
Different geography and such but Sara Lee talks about -- in their coffee business about being able to sort of hold on to 70% of the pricing that they've taken.
Granted totally different geography don't even know if that's going to be accurate or not at the end of the day but you see what I'm getting at the protocol typically has worked to a certain way and I want to get a sense of whether -- do you think that's changed? Has that changed in this most recent round? Or has it just been at the extremes of costs have just been sort of anomalous if you will? And then I got a quick follow-up.
Andrew this is Mark again.
I -- your assessment I think is right on.
I can let Steve speak to the foodservice coffee side because that is a different channel.
But you are absolutely correct that there is a lag.
We do try to be transparent where we can and given the moderation of the costs -- I mean if you just look at the trend line over the last several months it has been moderating but it's been moderating slowly.
So that's the reason for our comment that we will look at specific segments and possibly look at some targeted spend but a broader price increase would be likely as we get through the continued higher costs and into the beginning of the fiscal year.
And then I'd like to speak to the -- our experience just so far with Sara Lee obviously it's only been a short period of time.
But foodservice coffee is very different in that we don't have key promotion price periods like you do in retail.
We don't have a Thanksgiving ad we don't have an Easter ad so it gives you a lot more flexibility in pricing versus the market pricing versus competitors.
So we're -- and it allows your coverage strategy to be very different.
You can coverage -- you can cover for the lowest-cost product rather than cover to protect key promotional time periods.
So we got a lot of learning from Sara Lee on that and our team is all over it.
So the dynamics will be different in foodservice.
Research Division</strong> Thanks.
And then as a follow-up I -- Richard I know that you guys went through a lot of the discrete things that impacted sort of volume in the quarter whether it be retailers destocking and obviously consumers adjusting to higher price points and things of that nature.
Even aside from all that we have seen obviously some pretty weak industry data from a volume perspective.
And in asking a lot of the various companies that have reported and what have you it still seems like there's a lack of either understanding of what's made it so weak or the -- and definitely the feeling that as long as consumers are still eating which -- best I can tell that's the case that there's this general hope and expectation that volumes will rebound some as we go into the ensuing quarters just because it sort of has to.
But do you have any better understanding of what's gone on in the data in the last couple of months? I know it's maybe hard to get at but I want to make sure to ask you if you had a better read on that because have not gotten a really great handle -- or a lot of the food companies don't seem to yet have gotten a great handle on it in terms of being able to explain it.
Well I am not sure I'm going to give you an insight that is a eureka but just from...
Research Division</strong> Trying to put the pressure on you in a way.
But some of the information that we have basically as you know food commodity costs have been up in the last couple of years greater than historical averages in almost in any period that we've measured and it's a very tough economic time.
We've seen people being willing to spend $0.65 a cup for a K-Cup of coffee but then they'll -- they're buying private label brands because the price is best.
People on food stamps have gone from 25 million 4 years ago to 48 million today.
So I think there's a little bit of industry sticker shock on -- across the industry but I think I relate it a little bit to the fuel in terms of gasoline.
When gas prices went to $4 a gallon everybody stopped driving for a while until they got used to the fact that the new norm was $3.50 to $4 and then they started driving again.
I think it's taking the consumer a little while to adjust to this and -- across the industry.
And I think this new inflation rate will be there for some time and the consumer will adjust.
That being said some specific data that we have seen is that the average grocery shopping cart this year is $11 more than it was last year for their average shopping cart and the consumers putting about 10 items less in their shopping cart because they can't afford to put more than that in in terms of -- because of the inflation rate.
So I think it's something that we're going to -- all as an industry have to adjust to over the next couple of months.
And -- but I think the consumer will adjust.
We'll take our next question from Scott Mushkin with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I kind of want to poke back at this volume and I know you've shared on the coffee side 1% to 2% inventory reductions.
But if I go back to the summer and last spring when prices were going up and you guys were surprised how the elasticity was much better on coffee and I think we commented at the time that we've been with retailers that said and basically showed me their coffee stash of Folgers ground.
Now we're seeing to be -- even though the price that we track at retail which I know is not necessarily an official number but been stuck here at -- for the small one-pound equivalent Folgers is about the same price as about July.
Now we're seeing with the green coffee costs coming down all of a sudden volume is being much more challenged.
I mean how much of this is just a cyclical nature of this business that maybe you guys are just underestimating a little bit? Maybe you can respond to that.
Yes this is Mark Smucker.
I think that the couple of comments in the period I think you're referring to is in many cases the coffee increases may not have been fully reflected at that point.
And I would say we believe that it is less a cyclical issue than it is a they hadn't been fully implemented and b and probably most importantly we have now crossed certain pricing thresholds that the consume -- back to the sticker shock comment that the consumer is simply not willing to pay or perhaps if they're trading down.
And in some cases they may even be using their coffee more conservatively.
In other words brewing a smaller pot or brewing weaker coffee what have you.
We think those are probably what's driving the trends.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I mean just from our data it looks like those thresholds are passed in early summer last year.
And if anything with the employment improving it's kind of the comments you get used to things over time it seems like consumers will be used to some of these prices 6 7 8 months later.
Okay so that's good.
I also had a -- so that's more of a cyclical issue.
My next question has to do with kind of more of the secular nature of things in 2 of your core categories peanut butter and coffee.
Obviously we've had new entrants into the peanut butter category.
And now in a lot of stores you see 4 brands plus a private label.
So I wanted to understand how much you think that's going be a problem going forward.
And then also on the coffee side of the business K-Cups have obviously been a good growth vehicle for you but we've also seen Green Mountain get pretty aggressive at least on retail price dropping their coffee price to the -- the K-Cups to your Folgers price.
And I was wondering if you think and especially with the entrance now of Starbucks we should expect any kind of slowdown in your K-Cup business? Hey Scott this is Paul.
Regarding the peanut butter comments we have seen some competitors come into the category.
I would say that while they are still doing pretty well they're not -- we're not losing a whole lot of share to them at this point and we wouldn’t anticipate that actually going forward.
So -- but we are watching very closely and clearly they are taking share from other players.
And then Scott this is Mark again.
On K-Cups we're still very optimistic number one.
And then we don't think over time it's going to continue to grow at the rates that it has grown.
But we have not seen a slowdown in our growth based on anything that either one of our competitors are doing.
I think on the Starbucks side it's still very early.
They've done a very nice job of getting distribution but we have not seen any significant impact to our business.
And so the bottom line would be that we would continue to see that we are all collectively growing the pie and that we would continue to see growth in the category.
Scott this is Richard.
Going back to your original question and your assumption that the adjustments on pricing in the categories does -- would've -- you would've seen that maybe in the fall or the last summer you have to remember that a lot of our promoted items are -- we're big in Fall Bake.
We have a very good Fall Bake in most of our categories.
And this is the first time at least since a year ago that people have seen these new promoted price points which were substantially higher than last year.
So because of primarily peanut butter and coffee which are 60% of our business which had the big price increases that wasn't seen in our categories until this Fall Bake period.
We'll take our next question from Farha Aslam with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Focusing on coffee you had taken a 6% price decline coming into the Fall Bake season to get your pricing aligned for the fall promotions.
Usually the Fall Bake is a time for branded players to really shine.
So we're really surprised that private label took some of your volume.
Could you just discuss the competitive activity that's going on in the coffee category? You've had new entrants with Starbucks now being an independent force in this category.
And private label seemed to play a bigger role in a Fall Bake season.
Could you just discuss how you view the dynamics going forward in that category? Sure Farha.
It's Mark again.
I guess I would just start by reminding you that our cost is still -- in terms of absolute pricing we're still up in the high 20% 25% to 30% range versus the prior year.
So although we did take a price decline it may not have been quite enough in this particular case.
But having said that we did have good again promotional activity.
I really think it comes back to the absolute price in both on a promoted and un-promoted basis and managing the gaps that we have both on the lower end of the category as well as the premium segment.
And so where we did do a good job managing those gaps for example Dunkin' we've seen growth.
And on the lower end of the category the same comment would hold true.
The fact that we're participating in every segment of the category has been very good for us and so although it hasn't entirely offset it clearly has not offset the declines in the mainstream segment we're doing the right things in both the opening price point and the premium end of the segment.
Research Division</strong> And the core is there anything different you're going to do to address kind of the weakness in the core going forward aside from just increasing promotional activity in the near term? I think it goes back to the comments I've made I guess a couple of times earlier on the call just targeting specific segments and then as costs continue to moderate dealing with that from a pricing standpoint more broadly.
And Farha this is Vince.
I would add again we are pulling all levers to take a look at what actions that we can take including our supply chain initiatives particularly in coffee are coming to realizations this next year.
So there's a lot of activity going on to help drive the core Red Can business.
We are going to continue to invest in it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one quick follow-up.
I know you're right now as an organization dealing with commodity and pricing and promotions but in terms of M&amp;A particularly international M&amp;A could you just comment on any progress there? Well there's been progress.
As we've said we've looked at China as a possible investment area and some of our key teams made several trips over there.
And we have several irons in the fire and nothing to report yet but we're getting much closer.
Our next question comes from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> There seems to be a consensus opinion in my read that 2012 maybe won't see a return across the food industry to the heavy promotional trends of a couple years back that didn't really work.
But I'm starting to wonder if this isn't a bit optimistic and I'm hoping to get your thoughts there because we're seeing some deeper-than-expected promotions in your categories as you mentioned.
And we've now heard at least 4 food companies in the last month talk about challenging volumes right? So if volumes are poor and competitive activities are increasing why would we not anticipate a return to some of the maybe less rational categories across the board? Right? Just so companies can make sure that their product actually gets sold.
I'm more curious about your thoughts across all of food and any insights you can provide to your own categories as well but just hoping to get some color there.
Well this is Richard.
A couple of things.
We look at -- obviously we're concentrated on our categories and we still think the fact that we have the leadership position in most of the categories that we're in we're still going to take a responsible position in terms of how we price and how we promote.
What that usually -- happens is that you might suffer a quarter or 2 because you haven't dealt down to a level that is unprofitable or doesn't build the category.
But I think at least from my colleagues that I know in the industry have recognized that historically that if they do over-promote that's a short-term fix.
And the industry's -- at least the leadership that I've seen in the industry has taken a position that brand building is the best thing for the industry.
And I guess I'm optimistic that you won't see an across-the-board race to the bottom.
I think they're very brand-oriented and I think we're going to continue to see responsible management of those brands.
And we're going to do our part to do that.
Research Division</strong> And then your marketing spending was down this quarter by a healthy amount as a percent of sales.
I realize this was expected.
But how much of a problem was this in your view in terms of driving units lower than maybe what you anticipated? And how much do you think it needs to go up next year? I know you talked about some negatives and positive next year but I don't think you mentioned marketing unless I didn't happen to hear it.
Hey Ken this is Mark Belgya.
Just to clarify you're right as a percent of sales it was down but it was actually up 4% for the company in terms of dollars.
I think we've been pretty consistent throughout the year when we talked about marketing spend that -- because of the inflationary impact with the items the top line we would not expect to keep a percent of sales.
But the key point is that the marketing spend this year we feel is at a level that clearly allows us to do what is necessary for each of our brands and the level this year is pretty consistent to last.
And I don't think we would necessarily -- certainly wouldn't see a decrease in that.
We’ll have more to talk about later this summer when we get the specifics but we -- the lack of marketing wasn't the issue.
I mean we had quality advertising on air during the period have had that throughout the year.
A lot around social media we've been able to increase the percent of our marketing dollars sold on that.
So just looking around the team they certainly can add I think that most would say we're quite comfortable with the spend levels.
We'll take our next question from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> The first one is for Vince.
Just on the partnership with Green Mountain on Vue can you just help us -- walk us through your thought process on how that came about and most importantly why now? So I believe there is some other brands larger brands that had the -- like you had the option to wait and have decided to wait for a little while.
So why now? And what makes you so optimistic about Vue? And do you think it's going to be incremental to the current generation K-Cup business that you have? Sure.
Well first of all we've had an outstanding relationship with Green Mountain Coffee Roasters that we entered into a couple of years ago.
And if you have followed them and their strategy obviously its -- this new technology or new platform is providing an additional benefit to the consumer relative to buys of brew temperature control and a number of offerings that are within it.
As we had said from really the day that we acquired the business we knew that we needed to participate in the single-serve area and we did an extensive review at that time and decided to partner fortunately.
And we're -- clearly I think we're riding the right horse so to speak partnering with Green Mountain.
So why do we think it's good? We think that if you look at the others in the industry that have not been successful buying some very large coffee companies clearly Green Mountain is the one that is the apparent winner.
And so again we're very excited about the existing relationship and what this relationship means for us long-term on the new platform.
Research Division</strong> But just a follow-up on that so -- but why now? I mean I'm just -- we don't know the exact details of when these conversations start and end but Starbucks for example have yet to sign up and so has Dunkin'.
It was good to see -- I think it's the right decision for you to sign up because I do believe it's a good system but I'm just trying to understand from your perspective why did you think now was the right time to get into that system? Akshay this is Mark.
It really comes down to the fact that there's a leader and we're the leading coffee brand as well.
And we think that the partnership between the leading platform and the leading branded coffee manufacturer is a win-win so I think that's the reason.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just another one on coffee in general more longer term and really what I'm trying to get at here is long term you don't think fundamentally there's any major shifts in consumer behaviors.
I think that's what I hear so I'm trying to address that.
So the question is you said the issues that related to volume in the quarter were primarily in your opinion related to the price point on your Red Can business.
And so one am I -- do I understand that correctly? And if I do why is the price point -- the absolute price point so important in that category and not as important I guess in K-Cups and your lower-level value brands? Is it just a function of the value of the brand itself and how much you're spending behind it and perhaps you need to spend more on it? Or -- I'm just trying to understand why has the absolute price point seemingly impacted your core business more so than the high and the bottom end.
Akshay I think you're correct in your assessment of just the Red Can business.
It is we believe absolute price points and when you start to -- in the mainstream segment you start to look at prices that get over $10 that seems to be the place where consumers become more conservative.
I -- we would be hopeful that as prices come down you would -- and I think we've seen this in the past consumers will migrate back to that more premium segment.
So for example we're seeing consumers now either buy our opening price point our private label or our smaller can of the same product and so we would hope to see as prices come back down below that double-digit number on a consistent basis that there would be a shift back to that mainstream category.
Research Division</strong> And what happens if coffee prices longer term are on an upward trend? Does that just mean that you need to innovate a bit more in the Red Can business maybe to smaller items with lower price points? Or [indiscernible] kind of come… Yes.
I think if coffee prices go back to where they had been and stay there for a significant amount of time you're going to see higher prices across every segment of the coffee category.
And if that's sustained the expectation will be that the consumer would over time adjust to that.
Now the only -- the -- very quickly the last comment I would make is we're still very focused on innovation.
And we've got a lot of things in the hopper.
We've over-delivered on our own objectives in terms of new products in multiple segments of the coffee category.
So clearly that mainstream core Red Can business is important as it's the key area but there's so many other pieces of innovation going on that we expect that we will continue to see significant growth from new products as well.
Research Division</strong> And just one last one.
So with coffee prices where they are and knowing the complexity of your portfolio do you think you can adjust the price point on the Red Can business and still longer term be at profitability levels in terms of percentage margins that we've seen historically in that business? Absolutely.
Our next question comes from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I know you're running late so I'll try to keep it brief.
A couple of your comments left me a little confused and maybe I misheard them so correct me if I'm wrong but I think I heard you mentioned that in unmeasured channels beyond sort of the FDMW  stuff we're able to track your market share was better.
But earlier on you had said that volume was worse or maybe equally bad there.
That seems very inconsistent with what we're seeing and hearing out of channels like club and dollar.
So can you help me understand that? Yes sure.
Let me get maybe one layer down.
Mark Smucker indicated earlier when you look at like the dollar channel we are doing very well in those channels at this point primarily driven by coffee.
If you look at the club channels specifically due to some pricing that occurred on our peanut butter this past year we did lose a significant portion of a major club customers and so that has affected our second third and the future quarters.
If you look at another major retailer that we spoke to earlier that customer being a disproportionate amount of our business we have been challenged.
So that's I hoped to clarify the -- maybe the conflicting remarks or the conflicting interpretation there.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like you lost share in unmeasured channels? Well again net-net if you roll it all up that could be a fair statement primarily because of the peanut butter and the major customer.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question and I'll pass it on.
Inventory levels you mentioned that retailers worked it down last quarter.
They worked it down again this quarter.
I'm sure they're all looking at the same coffee cost curve.
We are and they're hearing your remarks about the potential price rollback in fiscal '13 so 2 parts for that: a do you expect inventory levels to every -- in the channel to go even lower this quarter? And b do you think they're unsustainably low and that we could actually get a boost in fiscal '13 once prices sort of stabilize? I'm not sure that they could go much lower to be honest with you so we would hope that they would stabilize.
We've actually seen a little bounce back after the end of the quarter where they reduced a lot right at the end of the quarter and we've seen some sales in early February being better.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'll also try to be brief here.
My first question is a bit of a follow-up to earlier questions.
But I guess I'm not clear on -- is the company changing the strategy in any way around or in reaction to this weakness in volume be it the way you treat new products or package sizes? Does it require that kind of change from the company in categories like coffee to better compete going forward? In generally no.
But we certainly do look for special price points.
Our opening price point coffee is one where we push extra hard because we know it was a value to the consumer.
But in generally our strategy remains the same.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there'll be no change the way new products in the future will be? Would -- that is going to be more value-oriented if you will? Well Chris this is Paul and I think if we look at our categories in the Consumer Foods side of the business we always look at the different sizes certain size meet the need of the consumer better today than other days.
And so we will continue to look at that when we launch new products.
Hey Chris this Mark Belgya.
Just one quick add on that though.
Just -- because I think I know your where your line of questioning is going.
This isn't going to take us time and a lot of investment to do that.
I mean if you look across our brands and our categories we have a variety of brand sizes to get -- whether you're focused on per-ounce servings or whatever that the consumer is focusing on so this isn't going be a major shift requiring a lot of investment and time from the management team and team overall that we just -- we'll just look at our current portfolio and adjust to quarter and take the course from that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful Mark.
And then I guess back to you Mark.
A question just around debt paydown given the strong working capital improvement that occurred sequentially versus say share repurchase where you've got a lot of capacity.
Obviously the stock looks like it's under a little pressure today.
Is there a preference either way here in the short run for the company? Well in terms of the paydown to be quite honest with you of our long-term debt that’s not public the private placements we've had there really isn't a lot maturing over the next 3 to 4 years.
I think it's about $300 million over the next 5 years.
And there's fairly substantial prepayments that economically it does not make sense.
Now we did take advantage to pay down our revolver during the quarter right at the end of the second quarter I guess it was.
So that's the completely opened $1 billion revolver.
But I don't think you'll see us really move any cash to pay down any of the debt in the near term.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So it seems that we've opened a lot of opportunity for share repurchase then in the short run.
Well we've got a liquidity-check on our strategy whether it's growth for the company or return back to the shareholder.
Our next question comes from Rob Dickerson with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> I’ll keep mine quick too.
Just a quick follow-up from the questions on cash.
I mean just to -- the point it seems like GAAP net income was down 11% CFO was still up 9%.
Beginning of the year you got the $450 million in free cash flow.
Obviously what's going to be viewed today is the drop-off in volume but at least from what I'm seeing so far I mean it doesn't look like we should expect that $450 million free cash flow projection to be changing for year end.
Is that right? Well it would change a little bit it would decreased a little bit because of -- I mean [indiscernible] EPS effect.
But I'll tell you we still think that it's within shouting distance.
We lost about $35 million if you just equate cash to the income but we still think $450 million is possible.
We also generated a lot of cash from working capital improvements this past quarter.
Our teams are focused on that as well.
So for now I would say it's probably $400 million to $450 million and we're still hopeful to get to the high end of that.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And then as we look into next year I'm assuming that there's nothing that's changed with respect to your CapEx plan I mean such that X percent is coming from special projects.
Yes there won't be anything significant.
The only -- and I wouldn't even say it's overly significant but it is worth note is that obviously with the acquisition of Sara Lee business the capital requirements related to the equipment are a little higher but we would still not see a significant change in our CapEx spending from what we've talked about in the past for next year.
LLC</strong> Okay perfect.
And real quick just on just coffee I guess just frankly do you or do you not get a profit mix benefit from K-Cups? Oh K-Cups? We -- the only thing we've commented earlier that it is not dilutive.
It's primarily equal to our overall corporate average.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then lastly just kind of I guess to round up all of the comments on pricing today on coffee I guess the final question that I just have is we -- basically end of January we're looking at the same commodity curves that spot coffee actually did lack from the price a year ago.
And I'm just curious if there is a main culprit or more than one culprit who have essentially discounted or raised prices less than you did in the past quarter then what's the kind of quick answer to why wait to until early fiscal '13? Is there a possibility that we would see pricing coming down actually in Q4? Most likely not.
But there could be as Mark referred to earlier some targeted promotional activity.
But no there probably will not be any pricing action in the fourth quarter.
Our next question comes from Mitch Pinheiro with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I'll be quick.
Did the Dunkin' K-Cup launch have any impact on your Dunkin' bag business that you can measure? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Will Vue be priced -- or I should said say will your margins be similar to your existing K-Cup business? We don't know yet and that's -- probably have to ask Green Mountain that question.
Research Division</strong> Will Vue -- will your product in Vue be in grocery only? Will you -- or where is it launched first? We'll provide more details on that next week because it's so early in the launch in terms of the test period et cetera.
We're going to -- we'll work with Green Mountain to convey as much information as we can.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question.
Just based on what you learned in this quarter any changes to Easter spring -- the spring baking season? Yes Mitch this is Paul.
We have actually some pretty good plans in place for Easter.
At this stage in the game we're probably not going to make any major adjustments but we feel it's in decent shape.
And we have a follow-up question from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Regarding next year Mark the CapEx you're higher this year because of the -- building of the new plant.
Wouldn't CapEx roll off next year pretty significantly? And then also I don't think you've been that specific on the year-to-year productivity savings that either you're going to get this year versus next.
I think you gave like an F '14 or F '15 kind of longer-term target but perhaps you could kind of touch on those 2 issues.
We'll be glad to.
First of all in terms of CapEx next year we definitely will see a decline probably somewhere in the 20% to 25% reduction from the roughly $270 million we're expecting this year.
And a lot of that has to do with the completion of both the projects in New Orleans as well as here in Orrville.
And then in terms of -- I'm sorry the second part of your question again Eric? Research Division</strong> Yes long call.
Productivity savings.
Yes yes yes sorry.
Yes in terms of productivity just to ground the listeners we did say that we're going to have approximately $70 million in total savings when everything is said and done and actual will be in full effect in fiscal 2015.
The current year we've got about $25 million of benefit.
Obviously that's been a contributor to trying to offset some of the effect to the commodities.
Although we'll be more specific when we talk to you in June we will see that number go up a little bit next year and we'll have completed our coffee work in New Orleans.
We have completed our Canada pickle and the plants closing there so we'll get some additional benefits from that.
And then the rest will sort of step up as we bring on the lines and ultimately move everything into our new plant here in Orrville and again just giving the full effect in 2015.
So there'll be a little bit above the current $25 million that we had in this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last one I guess to either Richard or Vince.
When some of your competitors announce results in the next couple of weeks so Kraft obviously in Coffee and ConAgra in oils and I suppose Mills at some point maybe they'll touch on it next week in bake mixes.
I mean do you really expect them to kind of paint the picture similar to what you're saying in terms of category volumes? I mean it sounds like you gained share or kept share stable in dollars but lost in volume.
So they're going to -- do you think they're going to show in some of those cases the opposite like volumes better and dollar share losses? I really don't know what they're going to say.
Obviously it's up to them.
But we know what the market said and what it meant to us.
I would think they'd be looking at the same data.
Before we end the call I just wanted to thank everybody for your questions.
They make us better.
I also wanted to emphasize that we remain confident in our strategy and we're actively addressing the current challenges that we face.
We know where it occurred and why and we're taking the appropriate steps to make the next quarter and next year solid.
And we remain confident in our long-term projections.
So we look forward to seeing everybody next week at CAGNY and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen if you wish to access the rebroadcast after this live call you may do so by dialing 1 (888) 203-1112 or 1 (719) 457-0820 with the passcode of 3354217.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the J.M.
Smucker Company's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference over to Sonal Robinson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Ms.
Robinson.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for joining us today.
On the call with me are Richard Smucker Chief Executive Officer; Vince Byrd President and Chief Operating Officer; Mark Belgya Chief Financial Officer; Steve Oakland President International Foodservice and Natural Foods; Mark Smucker President U.S.
Retail Coffee; and Paul Smucker Wagstaff President U.S.
Retail Consumer Foods.
After this brief introduction I will turn the call over to Richard for an overview of fiscal 2012 and initial thoughts as we head into 2013.
Vince will then provide commentary on our business segments and Mark will close with additional comments on our financial results and our outlook for 2013.
During the call today we may make forward-looking statements that reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates and actual results may differ materially due to risk and uncertainties.
I invite you to read the full disclosure statement in the press release concerning forward-looking statements.
Let me also remind you that the company uses non-GAAP results for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.
Additional discussion on non-GAAP information is detailed in our press release located on our website at smuckers.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the website.
If you have any follow-up questions or comments after today's call please contact me or Mark Belgya.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Sonal.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
As we look back over the past year one marked by unprecedented levels of commodity cost increases and an uncertain macroeconomic environment we are pleased to have delivered another year of record sales and year-over-year earnings per share growth.
Let me begin by recapping our key accomplishments during the past fiscal year.
Sales increased 15% to more than $5.5 billion for the year as each of our business segments achieved strong sales growth.
In addition non-GAAP earnings per share increased to $4.73 compared to $4.69 in the prior year.
Through responsible pricing leadership we addressed cost inflation exceeding $500 million for the year resulting in prices increasing by double digits in several categories.
Like many other food companies the combination of these higher prices and economic uncertainty impacted our overall value.
2012 marked a record year for the company's innovation efforts.
Sales from new products exceeded $300 million representing over 5% of net sales.
The continued success of our K-Cup offering contributed significantly to these sales exceeding our plan for the year.
Notably IRI recently recognized our K-Cup introduction as the #1 new beverage launch in calendar 2011.
Innovation also played a key role in gaining the #2 market share position in the baking mixes and frosting category.
During the past year we continued to execute on our acquisition strategy completing 3 transactions.
Following the Rowland Coffee and the Sara Lee food service beverage acquisitions earlier in the year we took our first step in March towards achieving a meaningful presence in China by acquiring a minority interest in Seamild an established leader in China's rapidly growing oats category.
We're excited about partnering with this successful family-run business.
Additionally we continue to invest in our key productivity initiatives.
Significant progress was made on the new state-of-the-art food manufacturing facility being built in Orville Ohio and the expansion of our 2 coffee facilities in New Orleans.
Lastly we further demonstrated our commitment to enhancing shareholder value by repurchasing over 4 million shares of common stock representing approximately 4% of the shares outstanding.
And we increased our annual dividends by 15%.
As we close the book on 2012 and turn our attention to fiscal 2013 we are encouraged about the future of our industry our business and the strength of our brands.
Softening commodity cost should help moderate retail pricing and bring back some of the volume declines that the retail food industry experienced this past year.
Consumers continue to find their way through difficult times and we must continue to listen to them be flexible and adapt along with them.
To accomplish this our focus for fiscal 2013 includes the following key initiatives: First we are investing heavily in our portfolio of leading brands with a significant planned increase in marketing and innovation.
Building on the success achieved in 2012 we have a robust new product pipeline across brands and expect to launch approximately 100 new items in 2013.
Additionally we continue to expand our use of digital marketing and social media as consumers' needs are evolving rapidly in this space.
Secondly we expect to further capitalize and build upon our recent acquisitions while exploring additional brand portfolio expansion opportunities in both North America and China.
Third we are committed to better managing key day-to-day and promotional price points to meet our consumer needs and address competition including an increased focus on narrowing price gaps.
Fourth we are achieving a more efficient supply chain through our restructuring initiatives in coffee food spreads and pickles.
In 2012 these projects delivered cost savings that exceeded our annual expectations and we expect an additional step-up in savings in 2013.
Fifth we're making great progress on our sustainability efforts and we'll share many of these successes in our 2012 corporate responsibility report being published later this summer.
And finally our ability to generate significant free cash flow allows us to continue our track record of enhancing shareholder value as share repurchases and dividends will remain a key use of cash.
As we have consistently stated we take a long-term view of our business and we continue to be well positioned for long-term growth.
Our 5-year compounded annual growth rates are 21% for sales and 10% for earnings per share exceeding our long-term growth targets of 6% and 8%-plus respectively.
This performance is a result of the hard work and commitment of our dedicated team in executing our strategy.
We thank them for their contributions and look forward to continued growth this year and beyond.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Vince who will share more details on our business segments.
Thank you Richard.
Good morning everyone.
As expected fourth quarter volume trends improved sequentially from the third quarter yet higher prices aggressive competitive actions and cautious consumer behavior continues.
Although we do not expect these dynamics to reverse overnight we remain confident in our ability to manage through this environment.
While much ultimately depends on consumer and competitive behavior we anticipate volume trends will improve this fiscal year.
As Richard indicated our 2013 key initiatives will focus on brand-building investments innovation capitalizing on recent acquisitions realized savings from our supply chain projects and better managing price points.
Specific to pricing this includes narrowing our everyday and promotional price gaps with branded and private label competitors and in certain price-sensitive categories taking a more aggressive stance on pricing.
With the exception of oils our price gaps compare to our #1 competitor and private label began improving during the fourth quarter and we'll continue to focus on this going forward.
We will also increase our emphasis on the value-conscious consumer and provide lower price offerings through first expanding the availability of our opening price point products and secondly downsizing selected items.
Let me elaborate on these initiatives as we discuss our segments.
Beginning with the U.S.
Retail Coffee we have a strong lineup of planned marketing actions and innovation for 2013.
The relaunch of Folgers Gourmet Selection bag coffee repositions the brand as an entry level price point into the premium coffee segment.
This provides a three-tier pricing strategy across the gourmet section with our Folgers Gourmet Selections Dunkin' Donuts and Millstone brands.
Building on the success of our K-Cup offering we will soon launch 2 new varieties.
We expect our business to realize double-digit growth in 2013 on top of the nearly $180 million of sales achieved in 2012.
Additionally our brands will participate in the test rollout of the Keurig new View [ph] coffee system during the upcoming year.
We are also excited to announce the launch of our new Folgers FRESH BREAKS a premium single-serve instant coffee with a more roast and ground-like experience.
To support these new products and other brand-building initiatives significant marketing investments are planned for coffee in 2013 including a number of new TV commercials.
Second we remain excited about the Rowland Coffee acquisition growth opportunities.
We anticipate above-average growth rates from the Cafe Bustelo brand as we continue to expand into other key Hispanic markets in the United States.
In 2012 the Rowland brands delivered $100 million in net sales for the U.S.
Retail Coffee segment.
And we expect to double their sales over the next 5 years.
Third green coffee costs are expected be lower in 2013 providing relief from the record highs we experienced in 2012.
This in turn will allow lower prices on shelf which we expect will help improve our coffee volume in 2013.
In May we announced an average 6% price decrease on the majority of our U.S.
retail packaged coffee products.
Retailers are now beginning to reflect this decrease on the shelf.
As Mark will discuss we expect Coffee segment's profit to decline in the first quarter compared to last year's record first quarter but anticipate segment profit growth for the full fiscal year.
Finally we expect to complete the last major milestone of the coffee supply chain restructuring project later this year.
Our Kansas City coffee plant was recently closed and the expansion of our New Orleans facility is on track to be completed this summer.
In addition to improving our cost structure the expanded plants allow us to capitalize on upcoming initiatives including future consolidation of the roast and ground production related to recent acquisitions and continued product innovation.
Turning now to Consumer Foods we expect overall volume will continue to be pressured in 2013 primarily in the first half of the year due to many of the same factors that impacted it this past year including higher price points and competitive activities.
To help address these challenges and provide growth opportunities we have a number of new initiatives planned for Consumer Foods.
First we have several new products including the recently launched Jif Hazelnut spreads which allows us to participate in the fast-growing specialty nuts category.
Retailer acceptance of this offering has been very positive.
We will also launch new varieties of Pillsbury baking mixes frosting and seasonal items.
Our innovation efforts have led to the launch of a downsized cake mix offering.
This new size provides consumers with the same full-sized great tasting cake but is expected to improve profitability in what was currently a low margin category for our business.
This profit improvement is expected to begin in 2014 as the coming year will be one of transition.
Several new television ads are planned to support the launch of new products as well as building on the equities of our Smucker's Jif and Pillsbury brands.
Secondly applying our learnings from this past year we will increase focus on getting the price right in the price-sensitive categories such as oils and milk.
We expect to achieve this by improving efficiency of our trade spend and better utilizing our pricing strategy.
In the spreads category we will reinstate our support of the back-to-school promotional period following last year when many of the promotional activities were pulled in the first quarter to manage the peanut crop availability.
Peanut butter items which had been temporarily discontinued in 2012 are also now back in the market.
Lastly in terms of the supply chain we continue to make significant progress on the Orville manufacturing facility and will begin initial production in July and continue to ramp up activities over the next 12 months.
The overall cost savings and construction cost related to this project remain on track.
In addition we have made significant investments to expand the capacity of our Smucker Uncrustable sandwich manufacturing facility in Scottsville Kentucky.
As such we are better positioned to capitalize on continued strong consumer demand for this product and we anticipate solid volume growth in 2013.
Additionally our capital expenditure plan for this year includes significant investments to further expand the bakery operations in this facility.
As you can see despite the economic and competitive environment we believe our plans for 2013 will help improve our volume and share of market trends.
Let me conclude with a few comments on our Sara Lee food service beverage acquisition which doubled our existing Food Service business.
We have accomplished a great deal since closing the transaction in January.
As of May 1 nearly all major systems and processes have been transitioned.
The integration was a tremendous achievement by our teams and was done in record time over the past 4 months.
And the transition was seamless through our customers.
In addition we redesigned our food service sales organization and go-to-market approach.
With a direct sales team now in place our touch points with customers has expanded significantly and we look forward to the growth opportunities this provides our overall food service business.
Subsequent to the closing we made 2 strategic decisions that will delay the transaction's expected EPS accretion from what was originally announced.
First we slowed the roast and ground supply chain integration activities allowing our teams to prioritize other key initiatives underway in our U.S.
Retail Coffee business.
Secondly in order to ensure we are meeting the needs of our customers we initially absorbed additional lower margin Roast and Ground business that was not included in our long-term projections.
We have begun to exit some of these businesses however at a slower pace than originally anticipated.
While these decisions are expected to delay the majority of the EPS benefit for an additional 12 to 18 months we remain confident in ultimately achieving the anticipated earnings contribution from this business.
In closing while we remain cautious as we enter the new fiscal year we are encouraged about the proactive measures we are taking to address these challenges head-on and by the opportunities that lay ahead.
I will now turn the call over to Mark to discuss our consolidated results for the fourth quarter and to provide details on our outlook for 2013.
Thank you Vince.
Let me begin with a few comments on the fourth quarter.
Net sales increased $168 million or 14% reflecting a 10% impact of net price realization offset somewhat by a 7% volume decline.
Acquisition gathered $126 million or another 11% and the impact of mix was favorable.
While the overall volume decline was generally in line with expectations earnings per share exceeded the midpoint of our implied fourth quarter guidance range by approximately $0.10 reflecting a reduction in marketing expense lower administrative cost and the impact of fourth quarter share repurchases.
These factors were partially offset by a higher effective tax rate and an impairment charge.
Operating income excluding restructuring and merger integration cost increased $60 million for the quarter primarily due to an increase in gross profit.
SD&amp;A expenses declined 4% for the quarter as higher selling expenses which were primarily associated with the businesses acquired during the year were more than offset by lower marketing and a decrease in incentive compensation cost in the current year.
The effective income tax rate was 36.5% in the fourth quarter compared to 36.7% in the prior year.
For the full year the effective tax rate increased from 33.1% in 2011 to 34.4% this year slightly above our most current guidance.
An increase in state and local taxes caused the higher rate.
Turning to cash.
We ended the year with $230 million and no borrowings outstanding under our $1 billion revolving credit facility.
Anticipating normal billing inventory during the first half of 2013 we expect to draw on the revolver beginning late this quarter but anticipate paying down all revolver borrowings by the end of fiscal year.
Free cash flow for the year totaled $457 million slightly above our most recent guidance.
Strong cash generation in the fourth quarter resulted in cash from operations exceeding $730 million for the year.
Capital expenditures were $274 million in 2012 coming in at the high end of our guidance range and included approximately $135 million related to our restructuring project.
During the quarter we completed our 10b5-1 program repurchasing 3 million common shares using approximately $225 million of cash.
This leaves 3.9 million shares available for future repurchase.
Let me conclude our formal remarks by providing our sales earnings and cash flow outlook for 2013.
As noted in this morning's press release we expect non-GAAP income per diluted share in the range of $5 to $5.10 based upon approximately 110.5 million shares outstanding.
Excluding amortization expense of nearly $100 million or $0.60 per share the guidance would be $5.60 to $5.70 per share.
For the reasons Vince indicated the fiscal 2013 EPS contribution related to the acquired Sara Lee business is now anticipated to be below our original expectations but is still expected to be achieved over the long-term.
In addition to our standard exclusion of restructuring and merger integration cost the 2013 non-GAAP earnings range also excludes approximately $20 million of settlement charges related to the company's decision to settle certain pension liabilities through lump sum payouts.
Net sales for 2013 are expected to increase approximately 7% over the prior year.
The incremental impact of the Sara Lee food service acquisition is expected to contribute approximately 2/3 of the increase with the remainder primarily due to mix.
We project overall volumes to come in at levels slightly below this past year primarily driven by declines in the first half of the year with trends improving in the last 6 months.
Declines for the full year partially reflect planned rationalizations of certain lower margin flour business.
Going into the year we anticipate the impact of commodity cost changes within our basket of goods to be relatively neutral year-over-year.
Lower cost for coffee and milk are expected to offset the full-year impact of higher peanut cost along with increases in costs for sugar certain fruits and other raw materials.
Incremental savings associated with our supply chain initiatives are also expected.
With 2012 savings coming in higher than originally anticipated at just over $30 million additional savings in 2013 are now expected to approximate $10 million.
The projects remain on track to deliver nearly $40 million in annual run rate savings by the end of the fiscal year.
SD&amp;A expenses are expected to increase 10% to 11% primarily reflecting a nearly 20% increase in marketing and the full-year impact from the Sara Lee food service business acquired in January.
Ongoing pension expense along with incentive compensation cost will also increase and are expected to have a high-single digit EPS impact.
Net interest expense of approximately $95 million is projected including interest associated with the anticipated borrowings on our revolving credit facility.
This represents a nearly 20% increase over the prior year reflecting a full year of interest related to last October's public debt issuance.
The estimate also includes the partial recognition of a net deferred gain resulting from interest rate swaps terminated in 2012.
And finally we anticipate an effective tax rate in the range of 34% to 34.5%.
Free cash flow is expected to be $500 million to $550 million which would represent an increase of 15% over the prior year using the midpoint of the range.
As we continue to progress through our supply chain initiatives we anticipate a reduction in CapEx from 2012 levels to a range of $210 million to $220 million in 2013 of which approximately $40 million relate to restructuring projects.
Excluding the pension settlement charges noted earlier we anticipate a year-over-year reduction in special project cost which are expected to approximate $65 million 3/4 of which are cash related.
The remaining non-cash charges primarily represent accelerated depreciation.
Other factors affecting cash flow include depreciation and amortization which excluding special project cost are expected to increase to approximately $255 million primarily reflecting the Sara Lee transaction dividends of nearly $215 million based on current rates and shares outstanding and a scheduled debt repayment of $50 million in April of 2013.
Finally it is important to note that certain factors will cause an abnormal cadence to our year-over-year quarterly performance particularly in the first quarter.
Like many of our peers we expect the second half of the fiscal year to be much stronger in terms of year-over-year earnings growth.
However we see our first quarter EPS falling short of the same period last year.
This is primarily the result of the Coffee segment where we expect a significant decline in first quarter 2013 Coffee segment profit from the record level in Q1 of the prior year.
However we do expect the Coffee segment to realize profit growth for the year which -- much of it coming in the third and fourth quarters.
In closing let me reiterate our optimism in the future of the industry our business and the strength of our brand.
This year we added to our portfolio to enhance our offerings and appeal to the ever-changing consumer.
As we continue to integrate these products into the Smucker family of brands we will remain dedicated to the operational excellence that the marketplace and consumer have come to expect from Smucker.
This concludes our formal comments.
We would now like to open up the call to questions.
Operator if you would please queue up the first question.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> And that sounds like maybe the amount of people that are walking through the center of the store these days.
On that note I guess Richard and Vince what are the conversations you're having with the retailers about really in all seriousness the lack of movement into the center of the store.
And we're hearing reports that maybe it's the perishable stuff upfront that's moving.
So maybe I don't know do the retailers not like care as much because their higher margin perishable stuff is going and kind of how are the conversations going to rejuvenate center of the store traffic? Well Eric this is Richard.
I'll start and Vince can certainly add probably more specifics than I can.
But still the center of the store is the most profitable section for the retailer.
And no one is giving up on the center of the store.
Obviously with the prices that we've seen this past year everyone in our industry and the consumer foods industry has suffered a little bit from that.
But I think we're seeing a turnaround.
Prices are coming down and commodity costs are coming down.
And we're starting to see more movement than we certainly did the third quarter and we're seeing that trend into the coming year.
Although there's still a very cautious consumer out there.
And they're not stocking their inventory shelves at home.
And so we think that trend will continue somewhat.
We're seeing the trends improve a little bit.
And Vince you might want to add to that.
Yes.
Eric I guess I would say I think it's fair to say that categories are not growing they're declining.
And retailers if they're growing they're probably stealing share from their competitors.
And that's been fairly targeted.
Net-net the majority -- the feedback that we get despite maybe our results not being where we would like them we're getting positive feedback that we're doing better than most.
So again as Richard mentioned we think with some of the softening of the commodity costs hopefully we'll do better and we're going to sharpen our pricing going forward.
But the center of the store is still very very important to all retailers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then to Mark.
Mark can you quantify a little bit more like how much you think pension expense is going to be up in fiscal '13 as well as the compensation recovery? And then just remind me how much Sara Lee was supposed to be accretive and where you think it comes in now? I mean is it going to be dilutive this year or is it just less accretive than you originally thought? Sure.
Well in terms of the pension and the compensation cost in total it's high-single digits Eric.
So $0.08 $0.09 per share.
And it splits fairly evenly between the 2.
One thing just to clarify while I'm thinking of it on the pension we did talk about this settlement charge and that is above and beyond the normal pension.
So for everyone's sake just to kind of keep those 2 topics separate.
In terms of the Sara Lee last -- when we announced the transaction we said that we thought that it would contribute about $0.10 in earnings per share.
So that was the profit from the business as well as the applied interest charges to that.
What we're seeing now in 2013 that will basically be about breakeven at an EPS level.
Clearly the business will contribute at a segment profit but net-net it'll basically be breakeven.
This is Richard Eric and I would like to have Steve comment more on the Sara Lee business because we're excited about that.
We've actually found more things that are positive than we anticipated.
It's a complicated business.
It's taken us a little longer to integrate it.
But Steve you might want to share some of those thoughts.
Eric it's Steve.
If you think about the business we bought and the Sara Lee company we bought it from they were saddled through a series of acquisitions with a number of roast and ground facilities.
And so they sold a lot of roast and ground product mostly non-branded product to cover those overheads right? And that was the goal of a lot of it.
And so as we got into these things we didn't buy those businesses.
But when we took a closer look at them those are key businesses for key food service customers.
So we wanted to make sure we exited those gracefully.
We also see that some of those contracts are intertwined with some businesses that we would like to be in the long term things like cocoa and cappuccino and other things for some of those outlets.
So as we looked at those 2 things we said let's take pause let's serve those customers because we either sell them things today or we could sell them other Smucker products.
Let's try to determine what little nuggets in there do we want long-term.
And also quite frankly on the supply chain piece there were some better -- as Vince mentioned in his comments there were some better things we could spend that team's time on that are going to have even better long-term returns.
So if we took pause and didn't force a fast integration of that Roast and Ground business we could focus on things like Rowland and other projects our other supply chain projects which candidly are more important.
So those variables combined offset -- are going to push the earnings back.
But the core business the Liquid Coffee business the branded Roast and Ground business are delivering what we modeled or better margin.
And to Richard's point we've had our first several meetings with the new Sara Lee company in Europe and we're excited about the innovation opportunities between the 2 companies.
And our next question comes from Andrew Lazar of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I guess first up is -- certainly part of as you talked about next year will be a step-up in innovation and marketing and sharpening some price points.
Yet volume's still perhaps down a bit for the year primarily in the first half.
So I want to get a sense of with those sharper price points and all the innovation and such perhaps why we still don't see volume for the year perhaps up a bit.
Is it just because we'll see how we start the year out and it's still as you said kind of rough out there? Second would be with organic sales for next year 2/3 of it is the acquisition the other 1/3 is mix.
Is that basically saying that kind of between the organic piece of volume and pricing they essentially more or less offset each other and it's pretty even on that front? This is Vince I'll take the question.
I'll set it up and then we'll turn to the presidents.
But as we looked at 2013 as mentioned in our formal remarks we believe our first half we're still facing a lot of the same dynamics we faced in the last 6 months of our fiscal year.
And as you look at things like our peanut butter pricing and some other things we don't want to anticipate that those are going to change significantly in the first half of the year.
Secondly as already noted the economic climate is still a bit challenging.
And so I think us like most CPG companies have a little more of a -- feel there's more of an upside on the last half of the year versus the first half of the year.
We can get into specifics and we can turn it to Mark and Paul and Steve to talk about their respective businesses.
But net-net we have more new products in the pipeline than we've ever had we'll lap the 50 new items that we launched last year.
And so again we're very very positive although we do have some planned decreases in some items that Paul will speak to in the baking category.
So...
Sure.
Andrew this is Paul.
When we look at some of the volume declines some of that is managed declines on our low margin Flour business.
We actually exited a regional flour business here this year.
And they're just hemp products so it's pretty meaningful volume.
And also on the Pillsbury side we did what we call a kick downside which -- downsize which is similar to what both Betty and Duncan have done.
And the units should remain the same but the volume is down because we've reformulated those products.
And this is Mark Andrew.
On coffee just generally speaking I think Vince said it very well.
I think that as you look at the full year of '13 we do expect modest volume growth in coffee.
We have still experienced the hourglass effect that we've talked about where you see some shifting of volume out of the mainstream coffee category and into sort of the premium and the opening price point areas.
Having said that though I think we said last time our volume decline has moderated in mainstream and actually we were down less in the fourth quarter than the third.
And quite frankly the fact that we play in all of those segments I think we're in a very good position.
So between all of our offerings in the premium segment all of our new products and all of our -- and some of the expansion that we've seen in distribution on our opening price point items should help stem the tide in volume as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> And then just Richard one quick one broadly.
I think the last call you talked about hopefully not expecting this environment to be sort of a race to the bottom right? From a pricing perspective given the industry.
Hopefully you learned some lessons from the last time around when we saw some deflation.
Any change or update to that thinking now that we're a quarter later and how does it reconcile with some of your guys' comments around sharpening price points and sort of narrowing some price gaps and things of that nature? Yes no I think we have as an industry have to do it responsibly.
We certainly will.
We have the advantage as a couple of the team mentioned here of doing things like -- where our competitors have already done it before in reducing sizes.
We've got several categories where we can reduce our size and therefore offer a better value to the consumer without impacting our margins.
We're going to take those types of steps.
We will sharpen our pencil around the holiday period to make sure that we're offering the right price points to our consumers and our customers.
And last holiday period for example on back-to-school we weren't even in the business in peanut butter because we had to withdraw from the market.
So we have some specific areas where we can I think -- you might call it sharpen your pencil or offer better value to the consumer without really affecting the bottom line.
Now I don't see out there a change in strategy at least by the big responsible consumer food companies of a race to the bottom.
I don't think that is the case.
I think we all learned our lesson a few years ago and recognize that although volume's important margins are just as important.
And we want to make sure that the price is right for not only the consumer but for our shareholders.
Our next question comes from Farha Aslam with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> This is Eric Gottlieb for Farha.
I have one question on the volume decline in coffee going into the price decline can you quantify how much volume loss there was and have you been able to recoup that in the first quarter? I'm not sure I understand the question.
Research Division</strong> In your press release you say that there was some inventory management in anticipation of a price decline in coffee.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> I'm curious how much volume shifted into the first quarter and have you recouped all that? Yes.
I'm not sure we actually know the exact number.
I mean I think if you look at our fourth quarter from a volume perspective we were down 2% but then 8% excluding the acquisition.
And really it was just some anticipation of the coming price decline and thinking about the weight.
When we take that price decline we are really setting ourselves up for the next few quarters and are able to get our pricing more in line in almost all of the segments that we have.
So I think that we would just say that we're cautious going through the first quarter but we're optimistic going through the second and third quarters.
Eric this is Mark Belgya I guess what I'd add to that too in fairness that while that's a little tough to quantify it's probably more prudent for us to take a look and comment on that when we get through the first quarter so we can see the full effect of it between the 2 quarters.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay that's fair.
And then moving over to fruit spreads.
Can you describe the competitive activity that caused the 11% volume decline? And what kind of actions are you guys doing to counter that going forward? Sure Eric this is Paul.
We did have a new entry of a new product into the fruit spreads category by one of our key branded players that did impact our volume.
I think when we look at what happened total year for us in fruit spreads we had to pull back on promotions based on the fact that last back-to-school we took some of our peanut butter promotions out of the marketplace to manage the peanut crop issue.
So we'd expect that to come back this year.
So that would be one of the things we're doing differently.
And then I think we're also looking at some new opportunities for new products on fruit spreads coming up.
And our next question comes from David Driscoll of Citi.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to ask you a couple of questions on marketing and incentive compensation.
So you discussed in your fiscal '13 outlook that you have large planned increases in marketing.
What was marketing in fiscal '12? Or what was the year-over-year change in fiscal '12 marketing? Well the marketing dollars themselves were down about 3% in total.
But as we've talked about in the last couple of quarters part of that spend was a redeployment into trade spend.
But if you just look at it year-over-year net it's about a 3% decline in dollars.
Research Division</strong> And then the fourth quarter was down 18%.
So I mean is it not at least somewhat fair to say that F '13 is really catching up because of the declines in F '12? Yes.
I think if you look at 20% I think the way I would think about it is probably 3 pieces of it.
One is they're re-establishing the marketing that was previously transferred to deploy trade.
I think two is of course some of the dollar increase is due to a full year Sara Lee.
And then third is truly the support marketing initiatives for 2013 above and beyond.
Research Division</strong> And then Mark on the incentive compensation can you just explain that a little bit in terms of what the nature of the headwind is for F '13? And how much lower was incentive comp in F '12? And then usually it's like a mathematical effect where if it's down a lot in F'12 and there's a percentage rebound in the next fiscal year that's usually what most management teams are talking about.
But I don't think I fully grasp the mathematics of what was impacting you in F '13.
Sure.
It's basically what you're suggesting David.
It's in 2012 clearly we fell short of our guidance and our plan for the year.
So just the compensation that's tied to the earnings per share and the margins for the business unit have resulted in lower spends this year.
For 2013 the way we approach that is we basically assume a plan amount.
So all you're seeing this increase is basically where we ended 2012 back up to the expectation at 2013 assuming the guidance that we have outlined this morning.
Research Division</strong> And what's the percentage hit to operating profits? I mean can you quantify it like it's a 6 or 7 point hit to operating profits? Well you have the dollar right.
I said earlier the incentive compensation cost the pension are about $0.08 to $0.09.
About half of that is pension so that's roughly $7 million.
So you can kind of do the math from there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So in your comments on incentive comp you are also including the pension changes? The high-single digit includes the pension.
But when you take that high-single digit it's basically half of it is incentive compensation cost and half of it is incentive -- or I'm sorry pension cost.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Final question from me just goes back to Sara Lee.
So when you originally thought that this was going be a $0.10 accretive acquisition -- in your prepared comments I got a little confused because I think you guys exactly said that there was some lower margin business that was negatively affecting the accretion calculation.
I wish to translate this if I may and see if I'm doing it correctly but lower margin -- I mean most people usually think it means positive but I don't think that mathematically is right.
I think this has to be negative margin business that you've decided to keep until you can do this evaluation process that you outlined.
Am I stating it correctly? Yes David it's Steve Oakland.
Yes maybe the depths are slower [ph] it is negative.
Some of those businesses although they have some overhead coverage they're not positive at most of the margin lines.
They are negative.
Hence we'll be on them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So originally when you're buying it you thought you'd exit them immediately.
But now you're saying well wait a minute let's take our time and look to see how we might somehow benefit from some of the aspects of these businesses and then you get this negative impact in F '13.
And then presumably in F '14 when they go away you've exited these negative margin businesses and all of a sudden the accretion that you previously thought possible suddenly comes back again.
That's obviously better said than I did.
Our next question comes from Ed Aaron of RBC Capital Market.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just off on the marketing increase I was wondering if you could maybe talk just at a high level as to kind of how that splits by segment.
Is it disproportionately weighted toward either coffee or retail consumer? This is Mark Belgya.
No it's fairly distributed between the 2 segments.
And then in Canada I believe they're also increasing their market spend.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just as a follow-up on coffee.
You kind of mentioned the hourglass effect where the low end's doing well and the premium end is doing well.
The Dunkin' volumes were a little bit weak in the quarter and I think you actually had an easier comparison.
So is there anything that we should think about just competitively with the Dunkin' brand relative to your generally kind of positive comments about the premium segment of the market? Sure this is Mark Smucker on coffee.
First of all on Dunkin' I would say that we still feel great about the brand.
It's been a fantastic brand for us.
And we actually did see over that very brief Easter period during the quarter we did see modest growth on Dunkin'.
But it ultimately comes back to number one the positioning of the brand as a strong brand.
But secondly making sure that we manage our price gap to the key competitor.
And that means generally speaking that we need to be at parity or below that competitor and given the pricing action that we recently took on that brand we think that we're well positioned going forward over the next couple of quarters in the right spot.
So I guess I would just close by saying we do expect to see some modest growth continuing to grow that brand over the year.
But we do have essentially full distribution.
So that growth would be organic.
And new products and seasonals.
And there will be -- thank you Vince there will be new products as well.
As we've done each year in the key periods we will be introducing new flavors on the seasonals.
We'll take our next question from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry if I missed this I was a little bit distracted on that last Dunkin' Donut question.
Can you specify what the Dunkin' Donuts volume growth or decline was this quarter? 13% negative.
Research Division</strong> Wow okay.
And you were cycling a low-double digit decline from the prior year.
That's a pretty big decline.
Do you think that's just price gap related? Yes.
This is Vince I would add a couple of things.
I guess it's clearly price gap and just the amount of investment that key competitors are making in that segment right now.
And so you have some things going on at the top end and the bottom end of that segment.
And why we feel very good about going forward is as Mark articulated we know where we need to be pricing-wise but we're also repositioning the Folgers Gourmet Selection brand.
And so we believe we're well positioned as we move forward into fiscal '13.
Research Division</strong> How much do you think Gevalia is cannibalizing Dunkin'? Well I think there's very very minimum cannibalization from Gevalia if any.
I think from what we've seen so far Gevalia has not had a significant impact and it has not started off as strongly as we might have expected.
Research Division</strong> You're also going to have some new competition coming into K-Cups soon.
We've got private label and perhaps some other brands entering the format.
Maybe maybe not.
In your guidance what sort of impact have you contemplated on your K-Cup business from that? Yes let me start with just generally speaking we're still very happy with that the K-Cup business and we do expect to see low-double digit growth continue.
As new entrants have come in it has actually grown the system and the category.
And generally speaking when we look at volumes we see that the volume is largely incremental to our other businesses and our mainstream business.
And so there are some new users coming into the category still and we recently have seen some data that shows that once consumers buy our brands there is a fair amount of loyalty there.
And so if you think about private label coming into that category we think that number one that is going to continue to grow the Keurig system and the category.
And as you know we coexist in most of our categories of private label and we will just continue to focus on maintaining our leadership through marketing support new products and our go-to-market strategy.
Research Division</strong> Low-double digits sounds like a pretty substantial deceleration.
Is that because your -- is that what's embedded in your guidance and assumption? Are you really expecting the category to sort of decelerate so rapidly? I don't think we're expecting the category to decelerate in the very near term.
I think that over time and we don't know when there will be some time when the category probably does plateau.
But recall that it has been the most successful product launch in our company's history.
We're maintaining our fair share of that category.
And so I think we're actually pretty happy with double-digit growth going forward.
And I think that you'll see quarter-over-quarter we should be up in each of the next several quarters.
Our next question comes from Mitch Pinheiro of Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So just staying on coffee and on K-Cups.
Are you going to be launching the View [ph] Cups at grocery near term or will you merely be like participating on websites in the near term? We will actually be going forward with a test which will be in the mass channel in the fall time frame.
We haven't actually locked down the exact timing but it is coming soon.
Obviously we're very excited about the View [ph] system.
We think Keurig has done a great job with the K-Cup system and we're optimistic that they can do the same with the View [ph] system.
So yes we will be testing it and that will likely lead to a more broader distribution base.
But I think that you'll see in the year the impact of that from a volume and sales perspective will be minimal.
But we're optimistic.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as it relates to like coffee typically coffee is relatively inelastic.
And the volume declines -- so you're seeing the barbell effect where there's probably -- your premium coffee drinkers are staying with premium.
But there is a trade down from the middle going lower and you're repositioning I guess your Folgers Gourmet Select at the low end.
Did I understand that correctly? Yes.
The Folgers Gourmet Selection has a completely new packaging positioning and it will be an entry price point to the premium segment.
Research Division</strong> So I mean are people drinking less coffee? Are you seeing a -- is there a channel shift where you may be underrepresented? Is there any -- and how does -- from your angle on the food service business how do volumes look on food service? Okay.
Well let me start on retail and then I'll pass it over to Steve.
I think people are generally not drinking less coffee.
Obviously there is some shifting to K-Cup and that's a single-serve that's a lower volume item.
Just in terms of absolute weight.
Part of the dumbbell effect or the hourglass effect has been driven by this shifting down to an opening price point.
Given where we're going on our pricing and that we've already seen some of the reflection on shelf we would expect that some of those consumers would shift back into the core mainstream items.
And on the premium side some of that shifting is natural but some of the shifting is driven by a lot of competitive activity in that segment.
So we think that we're positioning ourself very well by playing in all tiers of the premium segment as well.
And then let me speak briefly the food service.
Food service by channel the volumes are very very different.
In fact our core Food Service business volumes last year were up.
When you look at a segment -- if you look at total food service you would think it would be down.
But we participate in some of the segments like health care lodging some of the segments that frankly are doing pretty well in the food service arena.
We don't participate in a lot of quick-service coffee those kinds of things.
And those are probably the segments that are interacting with the consumer brewing a K-Cup at home.
So we think our particular food service volumes will be fine next year because in health care gaming lodging all of those things where both Sara Lee were strong and where our core business is strong we see those growing.
But the macro food service segment as you know is flat to down just a little bit but that includes all those other segments.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And will pricing be down in food service coffee this year? Sure yes.
And food service coffee pricing.
Now what the big guys do on the per cup -- through the drive-through obviously they'll make those decisions.
But typically our food service relationships are even more transparent than our retail relationships because we don't merchandise around holiday periods or any of those things.
So food service coffee pricing tends to move probably more frequently and quicker than it does in retail.
Our next question comes from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned that you're not necessarily expecting an irrational shift toward the pursuit of volumes versus profit in coffee but you also were talking about managing price gaps a little more efficiently based on some of your competitors' actions.
And that maybe tells us that your competitors have taken down prices more than what might have been expected.
So historically coffee's been the category where everyone sort of played nicely together in the sandbox.
It's been a bit less so lately.
So why isn't it fair for us to at least maybe be a bit more focused on pricing concerns and some lack of rationality than usual? I think in our case I have to speak to Smucker's case.
Number one we did not downsize in a lot of our categories.
We're taking the opportunity to do that now.
So we have a little bit more flexibility to move and we're doing in several categories.
And that's going to help us.
We had some commodity issues last year where we didn't have commodities such as peanut butter to promote during the right time.
So we can do that which we weren't able to do last year.
So we might be a little better positioned than some of our competitors to get to our price gaps quicker than they will be able to.
And that is a disadvantage we had this past 12 months which I think is reversing itself in the next 12 months.
It's a competitive market out there and people can set their prices where they want to set them.
But I think in general most of the large consumer food companies are pretty responsible in what they do and we recognize that giving a value to the consumer is more important.
Still buying U.S.
food products in the U.S.
is still one of the best values for the consumer around the world.
So we only spend 17% of our consumer earnings on food.
So it's still a good value.
Richard I would add Ken a couple of things.
First of all as Richard mentioned earlier we will always as price leader take a responsible position for the category.
That's sort of job #1.
We do know as we have stated before we need to balance our volume our share of market and our profitability.
Becoming sharper on price points does not necessarily mean in all instances it will affect our profit.
It might be a situation where we're -- have learnings on our trade spend about merchandising or depth or frequency that we're taking more efficient approach as we enter into key holiday periods.
But then lastly I would add and reinforce what Mark Smucker said is that we have some clear elasticity learnings about where our prices need to be vis-à-vis certain competitors.
And that may or may not affect profitability on some selected items but we know in order to maintain our share volume those are the actions that we are going to need to take.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And I do worry less about you guys than your competitors though.
Second question on your commodities.
A few articles have been published lately suggesting that the peanut crop will be much better this fall than last year.
And I know it's too early to tell but is this your expectation as well? And when will we have a better idea of the crop size and quality? And then on coffee.
I know you don't want to talk too much about this but can we discuss a bit the longer term prospects for coffee cost? I'm curious what you're seeing out there in terms of crop sizes and yields because we're seeing some conflicting reports on whether this year's crop is unusually large in certain key regions or whether it's more of a sustainable improvement.
Yes Ken this is Paul.
Regarding the peanut crop yes we're hearing the same thing that you are.
We would anticipate the crop to be a strong crop.
We have plantings up about 20% to 25%.
The moisture in the ground right now is very good.
Even West Texas is planted and looks pretty good.
When we anticipate to really understand what the crop's going to be that's not going to happen until closer to fall when we get closer to harvest.
But all indications that we see right now is that the crop should be a good year.
And then Ken on coffee.
Just if you think broadly first of all about Arabica and Robusta obviously Arabicas have come down Robusta's gone up.
Some of that is driven by -- first of all we are expecting a larger Arabica crop in Brazil.
And there is continued tightening on Robusta.
I think we talked last time about -- in the Robusta world some of the farmers and some of the holders or warehouses had been holding some of that Robusta.
That had been one of the factors driving prices up.
And then in Columbia as you know the rains have not ceased and so we are expecting another low poor crop in Columbia which obviously is not great.
But again I think the markets are not driven anymore purely by fundamentals.
And so there is some speculation there that will continue to drive some of the volatility.
And then I think another thing that's unique right now is that there are other factors that influence some of those costs or that are components it's not strictly the futures price.
But that clearly has an impact.
So I think your comments are generally correct.
So there are put and takes out there and we're just trying to manage through it.
Our next question comes from Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask a bit about the China business? Because I think this is the first time we've managed to catch up since that acquisition or that joint venture was closed.
You put in $36 million to get that stake.
I wondered if you could tell us a little bit more about that business.
How large is it? What kind of stake have you picked up? What's its market share position? Is it very thinly spread nationally or is it very focused in one region? And then maybe just a bit about your financial strategy with respect to China going forward.
Might there be more bolt-on acquisitions or are you really -- is this is it for now and you're going to see how this one goes? And do you have plans to expand your stake in that particular company? Alexia it's Mark Belgya.
I'll just start with a response to the ownership and I'll turn it over to Steve for more of the detail.
As you said we invested about $35 million and that will get us a 25% equity interest.
So clearly in the coming year as a minority interest it will not contribute to sales it'll just be a net profit contribution and it'll basically be fairly insignificant.
In terms of the size and with respect to our partners we're not disclosing that at this time.
We'll just say that it is clearly one of the leading oatmeal businesses in China.
Sure.
And Alexia Steve Oakland.
I commented a little bit about them.
I think we've talked that for several years we've been doing specific research in China on categories and companies within those categories that we think provide us the opportunity to implement our strategy there.
We think Seamild is a wonderful business.
A couple of things.
We all know hot cereal great category.
But if you think about China and you think about the challenges as you market outside of just Shanghai Beijing Guanzhou this is grain-based hot cereal that's made in boiling water.
The Chinese consumer eats congee grain-based rice-based hot cereal that they make in boiling water.
So we don't have to change a lot of habits here to provide what they perceive is a more healthful more Western -- and even though it is a premium to congee it's still a grain-based relatively low-cost alternative.
So all of those things we think are wonderful.
But better than that unique to this size company these folks are marketers.
They understand brand.
They use sachi [ph] they do things and they look at their business a lot like we do.
And they do it in the tier 2 and tier 3 cities.
Things that are typically tough to do for especially start-up Western companies.
I mean selling to Carrefour in Beijing is something we understand but marketing in those smaller cities is something we can learn a lot from these folks.
So we're starting to put a team in place.
We have an office open in Shanghai.
We'll have an office open soon in Beijing.
We're doing those things.
We would expect this to evolve.
We think there are other positions that we would love to be involved with either in another minority stake or frankly operating a smaller business there.
We're not taking that off the table.
So those are our goals but we think this is a unique business it gives us a chance to learn a lot.
And whether we go forward and own more or the whole thing over time I think quite frankly we have tremendous respect for them.
Our cultures are very similar and we'll work that out together.
Our next question comes from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about your commodity cost guidance.
I was surprised that coffee costs are going to be offset by peanut and sugar.
Can you give us some color into what you're expecting there? I mean the futures market is telling us roughly 20% to 25% decline in coffee costs.
So if that was flowing through your guidance it would be a net positive I would think relative to your guidance.
But can you just help me? What's going on? I mean I know there's a lot of hedging and stuff that goes on that caused those timing issues but I was surprised that lower coffee cost would not offset the higher peanut and sugar cost.
Akshay it's Mark Belgya.
It's a good question a fair question.
I think traditionally most of the discussion around coffee prices is based on futures.
But as Mark made the reference to there clearly are other costs logistic cost quality cost country things like that that factor in and quite honestly those have gone sort of contrary to what you've seen in the Arabica market.
So it's those costs that are negating a bit which you'd expect just looking solely at the futures market.
And I would add Akshay this is Mark Smucker if you think back over the past 4 to 6 months the tapering off on the futures markets as you've seen in Arabica has been fairly steady.
And so if you think about -- that would play into when we take delivery on those as well.
Going forward as you -- obviously there has been a significant decline in Arabicas.
But keep in mind the comments that Mark Belgya said and then just the strength of Robustas as well.
So I think that there's a number of factors it's not just the futures market that we have to make sure that we're taking into consideration.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Just a follow-up on that as it relates to pricing relative to some of your competition there's been a large retailer I think on private label that has been gaining some share.
And I think you had mentioned that last quarter and you still mentioned promotional activity this quarter as being somewhat of a headwind.
Our research is telling us that that was happening because private label was playing with blends on Robusta and Arabica that were helping them sort of beat you on pricing I mean and it looks like that gap has narrowed.
I mean am I reading that correctly? I mean I find that hard to believe that the #1 branded coffee company is getting beat by a private label manufacturer on pricing.
So am I reading that correctly? I mean why are there price gaps in coffee when you're the category captain? You are right Akshay.
I think you stated it very well.
There was a major customer who had decided consciously that we believe anyway to take a lower margin on private label.
You're also correct that we are narrowing that gap and you're also correct again that private label coffee tends to be 100% Robusta.
So that obviously does have an impact.
I would just conclude by saying that again we're closing those gaps and we feel comfortable that both from a mainstream Red Can standpoint as well as an opening price point that we should be well positioned in the next couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> And just one last one.
In terms of your sort of base business growth obviously your EPS growth is -- guidance midpoint is like 7%.
I don't think you're assuming any share repurchases.
So from a segment operating income standpoint can you help us directionally at least? I would assume coffee is going to be double digits because of acquisitions and lower cost.
But you did talk about a transition year and I don't know if you were referring to the whole consumer segment or if you were just referring to a part of it.
Is that segment just going to be down in terms of profit year-over-year? Well the transition was specific to the downsizing of the cake [ph] that was mentioned earlier.
The segment profit -- I mean we expect to see segment profit growth across our segments.
Clearly from a dollar perspective International Foodservice National Foods will be impacted by the increment of Sara Lee but we see growth across -- and again as we've said more back-end of the year.
Our next question comes from Rob Dickerson of Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> So I feel like I kind of ask this question kind of farther back in the queue every quarter.
But it always all of this at the end of the day goes back to free cash flow.
And like you said before your free cash flow's going up 15% year-over-year fully adjusted EPS with the onetime loss in Q2 and the impairment in Q3 is about 5%.
So if I'm thinking 5% adjusted EPS growth year-over-year and the 15% in free cash flow I guess one could you remind me where you expect CapEx to be kind of at the tail end of the restructuring planned in '14? And then two is with the incremental free cash flow this year I know you referenced the debt maturity but is the probability of increased free cash flow this year and next year higher now to go into the further buyback of the $3.9 million you have still on your authorization? Or should we kind of be sitting tight right now because you want to be careful with cash if volumes are still down? Sure.
Rob this is Mark Belgya.
Let me address the 2 of those.
Let me just start with free cash flow.
We have said that we think that we can grow free cash flow basically double it over 5 years.
So clearly our 15% is the right step in year one.
Our CapEx we've dropped it from this past year about $275 million.
Next year we said we're going to be -- or next year I'm sorry being '13 between $210 million and $220 million.
Ultimately we still want to get down to basically what we call the industry average with sort of 3% to 3.5% of net sales.
We feel that's the right run rate.
So you're getting somewhere in that $180 million to $210 million level on a go-forward basis.
Seems right to us.
In terms of the use of the cash.
I mean I guess I would just fall back on sort of what we have consistently said in terms of our free cash flow.
We want to invest basically about half of it over time in the business whether that's acquisitions and capital expenditures and the other half returned to shareholders be it dividend and buyback.
And I don't see us being necessarily any more aggressive in terms of buyback.
As of right now our guidance does not reflect any.
Last year we bought over 4 million shares.
We'll continue to look opportunistically.
We've got 4 million shares roughly available and we'll sort of see how the year is.
The good thing is is we've got strong cash generation we've got a lot of liquidity.
And even through the tough times we're well positioned from that perspective.
And we'll now go again to Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just real quickly so I understand Mark the top line.
So you said of the 7% growth 2/3 is acquisition the rest is mix roughly and volume.
Like I assume pricing is going to be over the year net down.
So aren't you -- doesn't that then equate to volumes being up over the year? Even if it's second half weighted? Am I thinking about that incorrectly? It's very marginally close to what we accomplished this year.
It's really that close albeit down.
Research Division</strong> Which? The volume.
Eric this is Richard.
One comment on volume which I always like to make is that we also look at units.
And when we sell a K-Cup it's a lot of units but it's not a lot of volume.
When we sell a lot of flour it's a lot of volume but it's not a lot of units.
And if you would measure our performance just in units and not volume all the time we actually look better by a couple of percentage points.
And we keep track of those and usually those units carry a higher value.
So I just don't want to get overly hung up on volume all the time versus units.
And maybe at some point in time we'll be able to share those in an intelligent manner but the numbers look better internally than they do externally.
Yes Eric it's Mark.
Just to close that off.
The perfect example we share is obviously the K-Cups.
Low volume item very high dollar.
And then finally just again on volume if you take the commentary that Paul had earlier on the items that were rationalized being on the flour and then the downsizing impact it actually throws this slightly positive.
So those clearly are what's driving the overall negative volume.
But again it's around 0.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you first off a bit of a follow-up on a point you were just making there.
In the coffee segment in this quarter you had a pretty significant mix benefit from K-Cups.
And just simple math taking that away from the level of pricing that we've calculated for that division it suggests that underlying pricing was down quite a bit sequentially.
And I just want to understand the nature of that sort of decline sequentially you've talked about incremental promotion in your business in the fourth quarter.
And really I'm more interested in kind of what that means going forward.
How should we look at kind of early '13 and the degree of promotional spending behind that behind the coffee business.
Chris this is Mark Belgya.
Just to make sure that we're understanding -- you're saying it's down but you're saying sequentially.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sequentially correct.
So good pricing year-over-year.
It's just that there was a pretty significant contribution from K-Cups from a mix standpoint.
And when I look at price and mix together it suggested that the price component in rough terms was up modestly.
Less than I expected I guess is what I'm saying.
Yes.
I think the reason clearly is just the passage of time.
We took an 11% price increase of February a year ago.
So we lapped that obviously during the quarter and then we had a 10% increase at the beginning of last fiscal and then of course the 6% decline last late summer early fall.
So it's just that all of that heavy increase the price increase has just been lapped.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I understand that.
I think you've also indicated there was an increase or step-up in promotion that occurred in the fourth quarter.
Was that you're telling me a pretty modest increase? Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my final question for you is on just the comments you've made about narrowing price gaps.
All I'd like to understand if I could would be -- we still like to have our coffee and some narrowing you have to do there.
But what segments or what businesses really where you see most of that activity occurring? And then -- all of them? Primarily all of them.
I mean again we're going be very responsible as we look at those opportunities but it would be the majority of our key categories of coffee peanut butter spreads oil milk et cetera baking.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Would you anticipate using trade spending to do the majority of that? I also want to understand you've talked about some new products and opening price point products you could use as well.
I'm just trying to understand the balance between those 2.
Well it's all of the above.
It's all of those actions.
So again as Mark Smucker and Paul indicated it's focusing on some of the lower end items but it also -- it is about getting a little sharper on our pricing as we've mentioned on both promotional and everyday shelf price.
I think the other comment we should -- this is Rick -- I think the comment we should make is as you know in almost every category that we participate in we're the leader in the category.
And so we have the ability to price what I would call right not lower but right.
And some of the commodity cost have moderated which allows us to be transparent with our customers and to gain that credibility which we've had for many years.
But it doesn't necessarily mean just lower pricing.
It means the right price point and at the right time.
And so as I said it's a blend of making sure we maintain our margins.
And I think we can do that because we've had some lower commodity cost and we can pass those on where appropriate.
And it's also at the right time.
So we want to make sure during the key promotional periods that we're priced right during the promotional periods.
We're not talking about cutting prices across-the-board in any manner.
We're just making sure that at the right point in time we have the right price on the shelf.
And I think we think that maybe we missed a couple of opportunities last year which we think we can gain this coming year with some better timing and merchandising.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
You would therefore expect -- you've talked about some trade promotion efficiency.
Would your trade spending be up for the year? Is that the expectation even though you have some efficiencies coming through? Not necessarily.
Again we did some shifting last year.
So I don't know that we'd anticipate it being up but a lot will have to do where the commodities rest for the balance of the year and what competitive activity that we see.
But we're not anticipating a significant increase as we sit here today.
We'll now go again to Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Very quickly I think if I heard you correctly your cash EPS next year guidance range is $5.60 to $5.70.
Is that a wider gap between cash and reported EPS than you had talked about in the past? It would be wider a little bit Ken because that's primarily the add-back of depreciation amortization.
Amortization went up because of Sara Lee.
And depreciation is obviously up a little -- well I'm sorry that is just amortization so that would be just that.
So the amortization has increased from prior year.
Research Division</strong> By how much exactly? $10 million to $15 million -- $15 million.
I will now turn the conference call back to management to conclude.
We want to thank everybody for being on the call today.
And as we said we're optimistic about the coming year and look forward to next opportunity to speak with you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen if you wish to access the rebroadcast after this live call you may do so by dialing 1 (888) 203-1112 or 1 (719) 457-0820 with the passcode of 4728592.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to The J.M.
Smucker Company's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I'd like to inform you that this conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I'll now turn the conference over to Sonal Robinson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our first quarter earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
On the call with me are Richard Smucker Chief Executive Officer; Vince Byrd President and Chief Operating Officer; Mark Belgya Chief Financial Officer; Steve Oakland President International Foodservice and Natural Foods; Mark Smucker President U.S.
Retail Coffee; and Paul Smucker Wagstaff President U.S.
Retail Consumer Foods.
Following this brief introduction I will turn the call over to Richard for opening remarks.
Vince will then provide an update on our business segments and Mark will close with additional comments on our financial results for the quarter and our outlook for the full year.
During the call today we may make forward-looking statements that reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates and actual results may differ materially due to risk and uncertainties.
I encourage you to read the full disclosure statement in the press release concerning forward-looking statements.
Let me also remind you that the company uses non-GAAP results for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.
Additional discussion on non-GAAP information is detailed in our press release located on our website at smuckers.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the website.
If you have any follow-up questions or comments after today's call please contact me or Mark Belgya.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Sonal.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
We are pleased to start the new fiscal year with solid results after a challenging back half of fiscal 2012.
Let me begin by summarizing some of the key highlights for the quarter.
First net sales for the quarter increased 15% with all 3 business segments realizing top line growth.
Two of our strategic growth drivers acquisitions and product innovation played key roles in achieving higher sales.
Volume across most categories improved with total tonnage increasing 2% for the quarter led by strong performances from our coffee brands and peanut butter.
Overall results exceeded our expectations for the quarter.
Second non-GAAP earnings per share increased 4% to $1.17 per share.
Volume growth and mark-to-market gains were key drivers to this increase.
We are pleased with this earnings performance particularly as we are lapping a strong prior year profit comp in our coffee business.
Lastly our cash from operations was a first quarter record with an increase of $167 million.
Our ongoing ability to generate strong cash flow provides continuing opportunities to enhance shareholder value.
To that end last month the board authorized an 8% increase in the quarterly dividend rate payable in September.
Our first quarter results reflect the progress that continues to be made on the key areas of focus that we discussed at our year-end call.
As we have stated these were designed to address both short-term challenges as well as further position the company for long-term growth and include the following: further building our brands through increased investments in marketing support; continuing to drive our innovation pipeline; optimizing price points to meet our consumer needs and address competition; capitalizing on our recent acquisitions; and continuing to optimize our supply chain.
We are pleased with what we've accomplished in these areas and Vince will expand on these as he discusses the segments in a moment.
We will remain focused on these priorities as we move ahead.
From an industry perspective consumers clearly continue to feel pressed by the economy and we don't expect overnight reversals in consumer confidence.
However we are beginning to see some positive indicators in industry volume trends.
While total U.S.
retail food and beverage volume has been soft for an extended period the industry has seen gradual improvements from the 52-week to the 12-week to the 4-week reporting periods with volume up slightly in the latest 4-week period.
Moderating food inflation as a result of declining commodity costs has clearly been a factor in this improvement in the food and beverage volume.
That being said the impact of the current U.S.
drought will not be fully understood and realized by the industry for a number of months.
We will be monitoring this area and adjusting as appropriate.
Overall while we remain cautious we are more optimistic about the near term than we were a few months ago.
In summary we are pleased with the start of our fiscal 2013 and look to continue this momentum for the rest of the year.
Our performance reflects the strength of our iconic brands our ability to adjust rapidly and the hard work and commitment of our team.
We would like to thank all of our employees for their continued contributions.
I will now turn the call over to Vince for an update on our business segments.
Thank you Richard and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to report that each of our 3 business segments had solid starts for the year.
Of significant note is the improvement we saw in our volume results compared to the last 2 quarters.
These results reflect our team's commitment to the company's key initiatives that Richard spoke to of brand building innovation optimizing our price points capitalizing on acquisitions and enhancing our supply chain.
Let me begin with the U.S.
Retail Coffee segment.
Net sales increased 4% driven by volume growth across our key coffee brands including Folgers Dunkin' Donuts and Cafe Bustelo and the continued growth of our K-Cup business.
As expected coffee segment profit declined for the quarter compared to last year's record first quarter profit.
As a reminder the prior year's profit was partially timing-related due to a favorable pricing position in that quarter that preceded higher green coffee costs recognized in the following quarters.
To a lesser extent the reverse situation occurred this year as we expect lower green coffee costs will be recognized through the remainder of the year.
Let me now elaborate on the key initiatives as they relate to coffee.
First with respect to brand building we've previously discussed a number of initiatives planned for the year including new product launches and marketing investments all of which remain on track.
Of particular note is the continued strong performance of our K-Cup offering.
Once again the product line exceeded our expectations delivering an incremental $31 million in sales growth for the quarter.
As a reminder this business does tend to be more seasonal than our traditional coffee business particularly around the pre- and post-holiday season.
Based upon the continued success of K-Cups we are revising our projections and now expect K-Cup sales to grow approximately 60% in 2013.
Second our efforts to optimize price points contributed to the volume gains specifically achieving price points within key threshold allowed us to grow Folgers core roast and ground volume during the quarter.
This includes our Folgers opening price point offerings which also benefited from efforts to further expand distribution of the product line.
In addition our pricing and promotional strategy helped Dunkin' Donuts rebound and deliver 11% growth in the quarter.
Third while much of the first quarter growth of the Rowland brands was due to the incremental 2 weeks of ownership our teams continue to work hard on positioning the Cafe Bustelo and Cafe Pilon brands for growth through expanded distribution innovation and marketing support.
Lastly within the coffee supply chain we are nearing completion of the $70 million investment to expand our 2 facilities in New Orleans and are pleased that this multifaceted project will be completed on time on budget and on track to deliver the savings targeted for the initiative.
Turning now to Consumer Foods.
Net sales increased 15% primarily reflecting price and favorable sales mix.
Reported volume was flat.
However excluding the impact on tonnage of the cake mix downsize project we discussed on our year-end call segment volume was up 1% for the quarter driven by the strong performance of our peanut butter business and Smucker's Uncrustables.
First quarter segment profit increased $29 million over the prior year most notably resulting from the peanut butter business and favorable mark-to-market adjustments.
The higher peanut butter profitability was primarily due to price increases taken in 2012 to offset higher recognized costs along with volume gains.
Similar to coffee a number of brand-building initiatives got underway for the Consumer Foods during the quarter.
These include the reinstatement of our back-to-school promotional support this year which had a significant impact on our peanut butter performance for the first quarter.
As a reminder in fiscal 2012 we pulled our back-to-school promotions to manage the expected peanut shortage resulting in weak peanut butter volume in last year's first quarter.
This was followed by a strong second quarter mostly attributed to consumer pantry loading in anticipation of a significant price increase.
Due to these prior year factors we expect second quarter peanut butter volume to be somewhat soft versus the prior year.
In addition to peanut butter our Smucker's Uncrustables sandwich had a strong first quarter this year benefiting from the introduction of the new varieties and the recent investments we made to expand capacity at our manufacturing facility to meet the continued growth in consumer demand for this product.
We will also continue to focus on optimizing pricing strategies including addressing price gaps with competition.
Recent actions include a 10% price decrease in our branded milk business effective in the second quarter.
Lastly within Consumer Foods we began initial production of our new manufacturing facility in Orrville Ohio last month as planned.
Again this $150 million project is on time within budget and we expect it to achieve its forecasted savings.
Turning to the International Foodservice and Natural Foods segment.
Sales for the quarter increased 40% with the majority of the increase attributed to the foodservice beverage business acquired from Sara Lee.
Segment profit increased 6% for the quarter.
Similar to Consumer Foods segment profit was impacted significantly by favorable mark-to-market adjustments.
Key initiatives in this business segment include: First a number of brand-building investments which are underway across our portfolio.
These include new product launches such as new varieties of whole wheat Uncrustables for our school business within food service 2 additional K-Cup products in Canada taking our account up to 7 items in this market and new innovative beverages within our Natural Foods division.
Second we continue to look to capitalize on the foodservice beverage business acquired from Sara Lee.
We remain focused on completing an orderly exit of much of the private label roast and ground business.
We have made good progress on that front and the reductions will begin to be reflected over the next 2 quarters.
In addition the performance of the core liquid coffee offerings continue to be strong as we begin to realize the benefits of the larger sales organization.
Overall this business is performing in line with our expectations and remain excited about its long-term potential.
As we look ahead across our 3 business segments to the upcoming holiday periods and balance of the fiscal year we remain optimistic about achieving another successful year of growth.
This is supported by several factors.
We have lined up a number of quality merchandising programs across our various brands and categories to support the Fall Bake and Holiday periods.
We expect to see continued growth from new products.
We will continue to focus on optimizing our everyday and promotional price points.
We have seen a number of categories we participate in show signs of growth.
And finally although there remains significant volatility in the commodity markets we have good visibility into our cost structure for the upcoming promotional periods as a result of our hedged and contract positions.
Accordingly we do not foresee the need to adjust pricing in our key categories as we look out through the end of the calendar year.
Beyond this point our teams will continue to reassess the need to adjust price as we proceed into the latter part of the fiscal year.
Before turning the call over to Mark we want to make a brief comment about our share of market given the recent release of ScanData from customers that were not previously included.
In general there was not a material difference in our market share and with the exception of Crisco our 52-week dollar share either remained flat or was up across our key categories under this new reporting format.
With that I'd like to now turn the call over to Mark to discuss our consolidated results.
Thank you Vince.
Net sales increased $181 million or 15% in the first quarter approximately 1/2 of this growth came from the incremental impact of the foodservice beverage acquisition.
The remaining increase was primarily attributable to favorable sales mix net price realization and volume gains.
GAAP earnings per share were $1 this quarter and $0.98 in the first quarter of last year including restructuring merger and integration and pension settlement costs.
Excluding these special project costs earnings per share were $1.17 this quarter and $1.12 in last year's first quarter an increase of 4%.
The increase in earnings per share was a result of several factors.
On the plus side EPS included a $0.09 per share impact from the net change in favorable unrealized mark-to-market adjustments and a $0.04 per share benefit of share repurchases in 2012.
These factors were somewhat offset by an increase in interest expense related to last October's public debt issuance and a slightly higher effective tax rate in the current year.
An increase in gross profit led operating income excluding special project cost to increase $13 million or 6% for the quarter.
Included in the results was a $20 million gain from unrealized mark-to-market adjustments on derivative contracts.
This compares to a $4 million gain in the prior year.
A significant portion of the benefit in the current quarter is expected to reverse later in the fiscal year as the related contracts are closed and we purchase the physical commodities.
Overall commodity costs were higher in the current quarter compared to the prior year particularly for peanuts and green coffee.
We expect lower green coffee costs to flow through in the coming quarters.
Turning to cash flow.
Cash provided by operations came in positive at $167 million in the first quarter.
This compares to a use of $58 million last year.
The improvement primarily reflects a significant reduction between years in the use of cash required to fund inventory.
The effects of lower green coffee costs and a reduction in inventories were the primary causes.
Capital expenditures were $46 million in the quarter and we continue to expect a full year spend in the range of $210 million to $220 million.
With positive cash from operations in the first quarter we now anticipate full year free cash flow will be in excess of $600 million.
Further we do not anticipate the need to borrow against our revolving credit facility for normal operating requirements this fiscal year.
Let me now conclude by updating our full year sales and earnings per share outlook for 2013.
We continue to anticipate an increase in net sales of approximately 7% with much of the growth coming from the 8 months -- incremental months of the foodservice acquisition.
While we are encouraged by the Fall Bake merchandising programs that Vince mentioned and the retailer commitments to date volume in certain categories such as oil and baking mixes will be challenged in this period.
As such our overall volume outlook for the year has not changed materially.
During the first quarter we focused on getting the price right.
In some instances we increased our trade support in certain categories to achieve desired price points and strengthen merchandising.
However excluding the impact of the Sara Lee acquisition our trade spend as a percent of sales was in line with last year.
We anticipate this will continue as we progress through the fiscal year supported by expected declines in certain commodity costs most notably coffee.
Considering these factors and the first quarter results we're cautiously optimistic in achieving the high end of our $5 to $5.10 earnings per share range for 2013.
This range continues to be based on approximately 110.5 million shares outstanding.
Before opening to the Q&amp;A let me reiterate that we're very pleased to have delivered a solid first quarter and we look forward to continuing this momentum through the rest of the fiscal year.
With that we will open up the call for your questions.
Operator please queue up the first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question actually is balance sheet-related.
I notice that Mark that you had well over $300 million of cash on the books.
Is that -- that seems more than you normally hold.
Is that what you were referring to in terms of not having to tap a revolver to fund your working capital through the fall season? That's right Eric.
In June we had indicated that we thought we might actually have to tap here in the U.S.
primarily to fund our normal buildup of inventory.
But we came into the year probably with a little higher inventory level than we've seen in past years.
So we were able to end the quarter positive and as you suggested $300 million.
It is important to keep in mind of our cash about $100 million of that is in Canada.
So there's a little bit of an active issue to that but still we're running much more favorable than we had expected.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just maybe a more fundamental question.
Can you just talk a bit about with coffee costs having come down quite a bit versus a lot of other commodities that are now moving up what is the kind of the competitive landscape in coffee? Obviously Kraft is going through some transitions with introducing Gevalia and Starbucks is trying to obviously gain share and there's all kinds of questions around K-Cups.
So maybe you could go into more detail around kind of the competitive landscape and then I just have one other follow-up on coffee.
Sure Eric.
This is Mark Smucker.
Overall you're correct.
The category does remain a competitive category and the competitors that are out there are good.
I mean they're effective.
Having said that we still feel very optimistic about our brands the activities that we've got in place the fact that we've successfully managed some of these price points that were referenced in the script and feel that going forward we're very well positioned for the fall period.
I would also add that just from a volume perspective as we look forward as we got into the quarter and looking at inventories we also had some questions around are we reloading the customers.
And as we look forward and look at the shipments that we've had in the quarter we're pretty confident that the trends that you see in the share numbers will continue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess the -- can you comment I guess it's maybe Steve but can you comment on how much holding on to the roast and ground no-margin foodservice side of the Sara Lee acquisition limited your profits in the segment or on a consolidated basis and how that should affect things as we progress through the year and you exit those businesses? Sure.
Eric Steve.
I don't think it really limited the actual dollar numbers.
It did affect the margins.
Although some of that business is actually negative most of it's probably more in the break-even range.
So I think what you'll see as we get through the next 6 months or so is you'll see our margins improve dramatically in our segment and that'll be the impact.
A little bit of dollar profit but I don't think it was material for the company.
And I think if we step back and look at the Sara Lee transaction we bought that from a company that was getting ready to split up and it became evident to us in the end that that transition with those customers just wasn't going to happen the way we want to have it happen.
And so having us manage it over this 12-month period we think is the best thing for that business and for our relationship frankly with those customers going forward.
The systems are in place.
We closed quickly.
We got it all on Smucker's systems from May 1.
So our team has a plan.
More than half of that business will be gone over the next 6 months and we have a plan for the rest of it primarily in the rest of the fiscal year.
So we think it was the right thing to do for the business and I don't think it hurt us dollar-wise.
It did hurt us margin-wise.
Eric this is Mark Belgya again.
Just to kind of comment on that.
If you do look at the segment profit for Steve's segment we're basically in line with our expectations from a dollar perspective that we spoke to in June.
But clearly the effect of it right now with that being a lower-margin business that is primarily what's driving the International Foodservice and Natural Foods' reduction period-over-period in margin percent as Steve indicated.
One last thing though.
We did have a great first quarter in liquid coffee and so -- we won't typically comment on that kind of detail on a quarterly basis but we're really proud of the team given all the changes and there's some great new contracts signed some big contracts defended.
So the core of that business and why we bought it is in good shape.
We'll take our next question from Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to ask a question first if I could about -- just to get some perspective on the EPS guidance and the way to look at that for the year.
Obviously you had a strong outperformance this quarter and my question just more relates to if there's any impediments coming up that you foresee that could take away from some of the upside potential that came through in this quarter.
Chris this is Mark Belgya.
Let me just give you a couple of points.
The first is that for those of you that have followed us for quite some time it is pretty rare for us to move on our guidance for the year after just 1 quarter and that really has primarily been due to the pending Fall Bake period that is obviously very big to us.
You add into that obviously the volatility of the economy the consumer and the recent spikes in corn and wheat.
So those are all I would say are more cautionary as opposed to concerns.
But those all factored into where we landed in our guidance.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
That's what I assumed.
Just want to make sure that was clear.
And then I did have one more follow-up question for you and that was you had talked last quarter about introducing some more or really pushing some more opening price point products.
I just wondered as a general question across the business how mix performed.
I know it was positive in coffee.
I guess I wanted to understand and I guess a lot of it's from the K-Cups beyond that was there any detrimental mix in other categories because of that trend.
Chris this is Paul.
On the Consumer Foods side no we really didn't have any other negative impact on mix.
Mix was actually good for the quarter.
Chris I would just -- this is Vince.
I would just add that the margins or profitability of those items are in line with our core items.
So it's not like we sacrificed profit when we focused on those items.
We'll go next to Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Could you Mark I know you don't give quarterly guidance but you did mention that we should expect the reversal of the mark-to-markets later in the year.
Could you just give us some color on when that takes place so that we can model a little bit more efficiently? Yes Ken.
It would be in the back half of the year.
We're in pretty good shape from a hedge position through our Fall Bake.
So as we get into physical commodities later in the late third and particularly in the fourth where -- is probably where you want to charge that to.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in your K-Cup guidance which I think you're raising today how much are you factoring in there the expiration of Green Mountain's patents and what that may mean for the number of players that potentially could enter the market at this point? Sure.
Ken this is Mark Smucker.
Let me just back up and just sort of reframe the category.
First we had as you know a great year last year with almost $180 million in sales.
And the growth in the quarter -- this past quarter of course was also very strong.
So as we said the momentum continues and it's part of our overall strategy of playing in all segments.
And I think we're probably the one national roaster who truly does play in every segment in the category.
That said last quarter I think I was the one who said low double digits.
And after a lot of work by the team and looking forward on some of the issues that you raised that's why we feel comfortable with the approximate 60% growth for the full year.
Having said that we can't really comment of course on Green Mountain's patents but there have been a number of questions about private label entering the category or other as Green Mountain terms it unlicensed participants.
Overall we feel reasonably comfortable that we'll be able to manage through that.
Every category we play in has private label.
Private label will continue to enter the category although I would point out that the barriers to entry for the unlicensed participants are relatively high.
So there are a lot of unknowns there and we wouldn't expect a significant impact on our business this fiscal although we do agree with some of the comments from our partner Green Mountain that ultimately over a 3- to 5-year period the private label component would be somewhere in that 5% to 15% of the category range.
Research Division</strong> And quick follow-up.
What does that exactly mean when you say that the barriers to entry are a little bit higher? What would prevent a large branded competitor for example from coming in and using a co-packer and taking some shelf space from you? Not that you're not going to do great but I'm just curious how that would play out.
Well I think it's generally it's capital costs it's equipment and the time it would take to get that equipment up and running would be the primary reason.
Research Division</strong> Is there not a lot of capacity right now? I don't think we know that.
I think that in our world we're doing very well.
But it would be hard for me to comment because we just don't know.
We'll go next to the line of Ann Gurkin with Davenport Investments.
LLC Research Division</strong> Y'all made a comment this morning that you do not need to adjust prices through the end of the year -- calendar year in key categories.
So should I interpret that as you feel good about where branded prices are versus private label in these key categories? I think what we're commenting on is that we do not anticipate any further pricing action through the calendar year based upon the visibility of our costs.
We will continue to execute in the second and third quarters primarily as we did in the first relative to our pricing and promotional strategy.
So I guess the way to interpret that is is we don't anticipate any other pricing action other than we implement in milk that will go in effect in the second quarter.
We adjust -- this is Rich.
We adjust promotions as necessary as competitive positions deem it important but we're not planning to change prices.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right that helps.
And then any update on a strategy for the flour business? Any developments there we should know about? Ann this is Paul.
At this point no.
We really don't have any updates on our flour business.
So no.
We'll go next to Jonathan Feeney with Janney.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk a little bit about marketing spending.
I think it seemed from some prior comments and presentation materials there's been -- I guess has a cadence of -- despite I think the gross profit numbers were ahead a little bit but the cadence of marketing spending was a little bit lower at plus 6% this quarter than I expected it to be up.
Is that in line with plan? Is there something that you saw that -- or did I just get that wrong? Or can you talk a little bit about that over the course of the year and how much that should be up year-over-year in your mind? Yes Jon this Mark Belgya.
You're right we were up 6%.
About half of that was specific to the Sara Lee acquisition and actually was right in line with our expectations.
Beginning of the year we said that marketing was going to be up about 20% and you may recall that was made up of a couple of components.
There were some moving of trade spends that had been spent last year that was coming back into marketing.
Obviously Sara Lee was bringing additional marketing and then of course just our organic increase to support existing new products.
As we looked out over the year originally that was going to ramp up particularly in the second and third quarters.
We still anticipate a good increase.
Whether it'll be the whole 20% we'll sort of evaluate that as we move through the year.
But we would expect to see a step-up in the second quarter for sure.
Research Division</strong> And order of magnitude like I mean… I'm sorry what was that? Research Division</strong> Order -- sorry order of magnitude.
You said step-up.
When you say step-up you mean step up in the rate right so greater than...
As a percent of sales we would -- dollars and percent of sales would be probably moving closer to middle teens roughly.
We'll go next to Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask about the channel mix shift that several other companies have mentioned over the last few quarters? In particular I think you mentioned that you're trying to launch lower opening price point product here.
We've seen dollar stores for example be very rapidly growing across the landscape and I just wanted to find out how you see your positioning in that growing area.
And if you are underexposed how quickly you can close that gap.
This is Vince.
I'll start the answer and we'll turn over to Mark and Paul.
But a couple of points.
First of all clearly over the last 2 years or so we have seen somewhat of a shift in our business to club channel and/or dollar channel the one exception being of course we lost some peanut butter business and a major club customer last year for part of the country.
Clearly the Folgers brand when we acquired it was a avenue for us to further explore the dollar channel and that's what really has made that segment grow.
Secondly though as it relates specifically to our opening price point items those aren't necessarily only targeted at the value chains per se.
Those items are also sold across many of our channels including traditional grocery stores.
So it isn't necessarily a strategy of only having those OPP items as we call them for the heavy discounters.
But from a macro perspective you're correct.
There continues to be somewhat of a shift to nontraditional channels.
And then of course there's a very large account who's doing much better than they have maybe over the last couple of years and we're seeing a rebound with that customer.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then could I ask just a specific follow-up question on where you're at in the peanut butter cost cycle? It looks as though peanut -- well peanuts we know have come down a bit from their peaks.
Given your forward contracting I was trying -- you had good profit growth there but it seems as though it was more from pricing ahead of cost increases.
Are you at the point yet or can you see the point at which those peanut-butter or peanut import costs will start to come down year-on-year? Alexia this is Paul.
And when we look at the peanut business overall we look at their spot prices and they are coming down.
However spot prices are really more directional so keep in mind that that isn't necessarily our cost.
And we do as you mentioned we do enter into these long-term contracts with our shellers in order to manage our overall business.
But from a competitive perspective right now we actually don't want to share too much more detail on that.
And so I'd like to kind of stop it there other than to say that we feel very good about our overall coverage.
We know we're going to get peanuts going forward.
We'll go next to Ed Aaron with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to maybe drill in a little bit more to the drivers of the positive volume surprise in the quarter.
To the extent that the volumes kind of outperformed your own expectations is it fair to say that was mostly driven by price gaps maybe coming in line faster than you expected it and then if so does that raise any concern that maybe competitors will kind of get more aggressive in the months ahead? Ed let me start again and I will turn it over to Mark or Paul or Steve.
But clearly taking the learnings from our third and fourth quarter evaluating our post promotional analysis and our elasticity models allowed us to implement those revised strategies in the first quarter and we'll continue that through the fiscal year.
But I would say that it was a combination of not only getting price gaps versus competition right but it was also getting key price thresholds correct that obviously the consumer was responding to specifically in coffee when we went over a $10 average price point pretty much across the country.
The other thing I would suggest is that in some cases we've actually done a reduction in some trade spend areas to better manage profitability specifically in baking where we might have moved off a 10-for-10 strategy to maybe like a 4-for-5 strategy.
So I'm sure the competition will respond but I think we're in a much better place today and understand our models better than maybe what we had previously and we feel comfortable as we go into the back half of the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Mark can you just maybe clarify the inventory reloading comment that you made? Were you suggesting that there wasn't a restocking benefit in coffee in the quarter? I'm just not sure that I understood it properly.
Yes.
Actually thanks for the follow-up.
We saw in some of the pre-release materials there's some questions about that so we're trying to address it.
We talked last quarter a little bit about customers deloading somewhat in anticipation of a price decline.
And so the concern would be is some of the volume uptick a reloading of the inventory.
And so the clarification is simply that we don't think it is.
As we looked we dug into that pretty hard to make sure that that wasn't the case and so as we look into the forward months and our shipment trends that we experienced in the quarter we feel pretty comfortable that the growth is real.
We'll go next to Scott Mushkin with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A lot of -- some of my questions have been answered but what I want to go back to was the original comments I think as the call got on about that the industry is getting better in the latest 4-week data.
So I guess our 4-week data doesn't actually show that but I guess some instant commentary from a lot of the retailers that I actually cover as well that they're not seeing that at all.
So I want to just poke at that a little bit and see what you guys are seeing which seems to go contrary to even your largest customer that reported I think yesterday they had a good July.
But if you look at their consumable sales they really haven't moved all that much.
So I was just trying to understand what you guys are seeing maybe versus other people.
Yes.
Well this is Richard.
I think a couple of things.
One is we have seen a number of our retailers report.
I think volume is relatively flat but it's not down.
Where if you looked at the third quarter of last year it was down quite a bit and the fourth quarter for us and the industry recovered but was still down.
The first quarter although basically flat flat is good.
We're doing better than flat because we're doing better than the industry.
But we see a slight recovery.
We do see a very very cautious consumer out there.
And we think that'll continue into the months ahead until we get some stability in the market and the economy.
But we're seeing -- I wouldn't say robust recovery by any manner or means but we're seeing a little bit of optimistic return in some of the step of our customers and we just think that any ray of light is good.
And so we're pleased about that.
But we think we'll continue to do better than the industry.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate the commentary.
And I guess Ed kind of asked this question but maybe I'll give it another turn on the coffee and some of the -- it seems like the turnaround happened pretty quickly.
And if you were going to -- is it the -- is the repositioning just worked better? Is that how you'd have to summarize it -- is that how you'd summarize it? I think it's -- Scott it's Mark.
I think it goes back to Vince's comment about managing the price points.
And it is not only about the gap but the threshold that we had crossed.
And since we get asked a lot about elasticity and the models and so forth it is a new learning for us.
We saw what happened as we went above that $10 price point on Red Can and conversely I think we're seeing the impact as it comes down.
So it was excellent execution by our team and getting the price points reflected quickly on shelves.
And as a result of that you see as we've talked about the hourglass some of the migration going back to the core from the opening price point and some of the premium areas.
So our business smoothed a bit in the quarter.
Let me add to Richard's comment about the industry.
I would just -- I think this was in the formal remarks as well.
But obviously 4-week data is going to vary significantly or can vary significantly.
But if we look at the categories of which we participate in we have clearly seen that there's been an uptick versus some of the trends that we had seen in our third and fourth quarter.
We'll go next to Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
If you could comment on sales mix and consumer confidence maybe looking a little better and couple that with some of your new product developments and things like the organic natural area Uncrustables hazelnut spreads some of which to me sounds like you're pretty willing to go into more upscale or pricier products? Sure.
Chuck this is Paul.
I'll speak to Uncrustables and hazelnut.
We have seen a pretty significant increase in Uncrustables up about 25%.
And part of that is driven frankly by last year we were on allocation because of some capacity constraints we had at our facility.
That has been changed.
We've put the new capacity in we're up and running again and we're seeing a real good response from the consumer on Uncrustables.
And then on hazelnut that product again -- that category overall alternate nut butter category has grown quite substantially over the last several years.
And since we're the #1 peanut butter business we thought we should participate in that category.
So we've entered that we are very confident and comfortable with what our products have done so far very early on in the cycle.
But overall we feel good and the consumer response we think is strong.
I might add just in terms of what we've seen.
We've talked about the hourglass effect and so certain items are doing well at the top end such as K-Cups such as Uncrustables which would be a little more higher price per unit.
Those are doing very well.
The opening price points are doing well.
We said that the middle was squeezed.
So we are seeing at the top end that there are some opportunities for higher-end products and we're seeing some good sales of those.
And that gets I think a little bit to Scott's question earlier we're definitely seeing the top end do fine.
We're actually seeing the middle come back a little bit.
Our Red Can which was really squeezed last year we've seen that rebound.
And so I think that gives us some of the optimism because when we said the bottom end of the hourglass is doing well and the top end was doing well the middle was being squeezed.
We're seeing a little relief in the middle right now.
And then lastly you spoke to the Natural Foods business and -- yes as we know and we've seen the numbers the natural food industry has rebounded and the large retailers they're doing well.
But also the large natural or national traditional retailers all have a great set now for natural foods.
And those customers are becoming more and more important for our Knudsen our Santa Cruz Organic brands.
And you would have seen a lot of organic lemonade across the country in traditional retail this year.
So those items speak to what Richard talked about and I think they're as important volume-wise to that retailer as they are positioning-wise.
Those upscale retailers want to have a national -- a natural and organic segment.
We're leaders in our categories there.
So we have been able to benefit from that.
Looking at some of these commodities that are under pressure from the drought as well as the possibility of some commodities actually being in better supply do you think over the -- after the calendar year do you think you'd be leaning more towards raising or lowering prices when all things considered and the need to maintain volume momentum? Chuck this is Paul.
On the commodities in my area of Consumer Foods we're seeing exactly what you're saying some of the higher prices coming out of the drought-stricken crops.
Again through our fiscal year we are covered and we really monitor very closely on a daily basis the overall crop conditions.
And we won't make those type of decisions 'til we get closer through the Fall Bake time period.
This is Richard.
The one thing I will comment on I think that you will not see some of the huge increases in prices that you've seen in the last couple of years.
But we have to take price adjustments.
They'll be probably modest at best but we -- last year we took coffee -- well we took coffee down but we also took it up for 2 years prior to that substantially and the same with peanut butter.
We don't see those type of increases or decreases.
Yes I guess Chuck I would just -- maybe frame it in macro obviously from a supply perspective peanuts and coffee are coming down.
But again they're not down to anywhere near the levels where we were 2 or 3 years ago.
Obviously we know what's going on with the drought.
So again depending upon our positions and supply at the end of the calendar year or starting in the new calendar year you would anticipate there could be some pricing action going up.
But at this point as Paul just said we're in good shape through the calendar year and we do not anticipate any further action.
We'll go next to David Driscoll with Citi.
This is Cornell Burnette calling in for David Driscoll.
Just had a couple of follow-up questions.
Did I just hear correctly that in consumer you guys are pretty much completely covered on your commodity exposure for the rest of this fiscal year? It's actually -- Cornell this is Paul.
Through the rest of the calendar year we're covered.
Okay.
Understood.
And then secondly just getting back -- sticking with consumer and looking -- more focusing on volumes.
Obviously the environment is up but I think the flat volume growth that you had in the quarter was definitely impressive.
Going forward though I wanted to know what was some of the things that may prevent you from -- you had mentioned earlier that you didn't increase your volume expectations from the year relative to where you stood before.
Going forward I want to know what kind of keeps you from being a bit more optimistic on the volume side and consumer just given that in the second half of the year you'll be lapping some of the supply constraints that you had on the peanut supply last year and so I would expect that those volumes should be up nicely and in some of the other businesses you look like you have some good things in the pipeline as well.
Yes.
I want to frame in the kind of back-to-school and O&amp;B time period.
From a back-to-school perspective that would include primarily our fruit spread and peanut butter business.
We do feel pretty good.
Now keep in mind last year in the -- in October time frame roughly we had a lot of buy-in.
There's kind of hoarding on the peanut butter side.
So we're going to be facing that coming up so that's kind of one we'll watch out.
On the O&amp;B time period or the Fall Bake time period we're going to see a little bit of mixed results there on our oils and our baking mixes may not be as strong just from a price point perspective and some of the things we're seeing with our competitors.
But on frosting for example we should have a very good business and actually milk should come back a little bit.
So I think there's going to be a little bit of mixed results on O&amp;B overall but we feel very strong about back-to-school and our peanut butter business.
So then overall you do think that there's a good possibility this year that -- for the full year at least in consumer we could expect flattish or maybe even a slight pickup in volumes? Well I think the other thing to keep in mind is we have a downsizing that took place in the cake business.
And so when you look at kind of the apples it will be a little apples-to-oranges comparison because we do have that downsize that took place and that's a pretty heavy-volume product.
So the comparables there will be a little bit more challenged.
Cornell this is Richard.
I'm glad you asked that question.
It gives me the opportunity to always talk about this.
But I always think that volume is not a great measure of performance when you're looking in our businesses because we have huge weights in oils and in flour which carry lower margins.
And so if those businesses are down and all the other businesses are up we might have a down-volume overall company but we'd be way up in profits and units.
So we really have to look at our business category-by-category to see the volume trends.
And so I think that's one thing we want to keep a watch out here.
We'll go next to Rob Dickerson with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> I just had a really just an easy question on cash flow again or just -- I know Eric pointed out early on I guess there is an increase in your cash build.
You pointed to having kind of record year-over-year improvement in free cash in Q1 and you're also increasing guidance for the year.
So is this -- I didn't -- I don't think I heard anything with respect to where the additional cash may actually be allocated.
I think you still have almost 4 million on your buyback authorization so if there's any color you could provide that'd be great.
Rob it's Mark Belgya.
You're right we do have about 4 million shares to authorize.
You'll recall a couple of quarters ago we exhausted the 10b5-1 program we had in place.
In terms of allocation I think that we restated today that we're sticking pretty much to our capital expenditure $210 million to $220 million.
So with that locked in obviously acquisitions come as they do but we're still going to continue to look at opportunities to enhance share value -- shareholder value.
I'm sure there's questions out there from a buyback perspective we'll continue to look at opportunities there.
But again I think we think of it just because the dollar amount grew we still kind of go back to the allocation that we talk about often in the 4 buckets and we sort of stick to that over time.
So I wouldn't necessarily say just because we have an increase in cash that we're going to change that.
But we'll certainly look at opportunities.
As I think as Richard mentioned in his scripted comments we did take our dividend up for this coming September as well.
We'll go next to Farha Aslam with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> First question is on peanut butter.
The volume increase in the quarter was it really driven by better back-to-school or how much did the reintroduction of new products help you? And kind of going forward when do you expect to realize the lower peanut cost? Is it already happening or is it going to be more back half of the year? Farha this is Paul.
And on your first part of your question really there are several reasons why we saw the volume increase.
Back to school having those promotions back on was a significant impact clearly.
We did have the pipeline fill of some of the reinstated items that we had previously discontinued there's 8 of those.
We also had some of the new product launches the hazelnut Jif To Go et cetera.
So those are kind of the main reasons drivers for the volume increase.
And as we talk about your second part of the question really I feel like I've answered that already and I don't want to change from that very much.
We're not going to really speak to from a competitive reason -- from a competitive perspective where we stand on our overall pricing other than to say we do have these long-term contracts with our shellers and we're going to get enough peanuts for our needs.
Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up.
On M&amp;A could you just share with us the landscape right now and what the acquisition picture looks like for Smucker's? Well as you know Farha we have a list of -- wish list of brands out there that we think would be a great fit with Smucker's.
The landscape hasn't changed a lot.
There is some activity in terms of you've seen several transactions take place recently.
We think that we're going to see some brands come available probably in the next 24 months and we would be interested in some of those.
But I don't think there's been a big change in the last 6 months or so.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to Michael Gabovich with Glenrock Asset Management.
I was wondering since you set that promotions somewhat this quarter do you expect Kraft to possibly increase their promotions.
I realize the category has already been -- become increasingly -- promotional spending has been up.
What do you expect Kraft basically to respond given your kind of uptick here? I don't -- it's difficult to comment on any competitor.
Any news or the category is good activity to help grow the category.
And at this point we're not in a position to really talk about any specific competition.
I'll now turn the conference call back to management to conclude.
We would like to thank everybody for being on the call today and again have a great holiday coming up.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen if you wish to access the rebroadcast after this live call you may do so by dialing 1 (888) 203-1112 or 1 (719) 457-0820 with the passcode of 9463519.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for your participation and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to The J.M.
Smucker Company's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference over to Sonal Robinson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Ms.
Robinson.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our second quarter earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
On the call with me are Richard Smucker Chief Executive Officer; Vince Byrd President and Chief Operating Officer; Mark Belgya Chief Financial Officer; Steve Oakland President International Foodservice and Natural Foods; Mark Smucker President U.S.
Retail Coffee; and Paul Smucker Wagstaff President U.S.
Retail Consumer Foods.
Following this introduction I will turn the call over to Richard for opening remarks.
Vince will then provide an update on our business segments and Mark will close with additional comments on our financial results for the quarter and our outlook for the full year.
During the call today we may make forward-looking statements that reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates and actual results may differ materially due to risk and uncertainties.
I encourage you to read the full disclosure statement in the press release concerning forward-looking statements.
Let me also remind you that the company uses non-GAAP results for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.
Additional discussion on non-GAAP information is detailed in our press release located on our website at smuckers.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the website.
If you have any follow-up questions or comments after today's call please contact me or Mark Belgya.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Sonal.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
We are pleased to have delivered another solid quarter of sales and earnings growth.
Let me summarize some of the key highlights.
Net sales increased 8% reaching a record level for the quarter with an acquisition and new products being significant contributors to top line gains.
Looking at a quick snapshot of our 3 segments.
First Coffee achieved 6% volume growth for the quarter driven by the Folgers Dunkin' Donuts and Café Bustelo brands.
In addition sales for our K-Cup business nearly doubled year-over-year while our other new product Coffee launches continued to gain good customer acceptance.
Consumer Foods net sales were up slightly but volume was down impacted by the prior year buy-in of Jif peanut butter in anticipation of last year's price increases.
Also affecting volume was the planned cake mix downsizing in the baking business.
Finally our International Foodservice and Natural Food segments saw significant sales growth.
In addition to the contribution from the foodservice coffee acquisition was a strong start to the holiday season in Canada and growth in our natural beverages.
Non-GAAP earnings per share increased $0.16 or 12% to $1.45.
As a reminder prior year results included a $0.07 onetime loss on the Europe's Best divestiture.
Lastly cash from operations increased more than 50% year-over-year and exceeded $180 million for the quarter providing funding to repurchase all 2 million shares available under the 10b5-1 plan that we announced in August.
Overall we are pleased with our second quarter results and especially the momentum that we have built during the first half of the year.
As we look ahead we are in the midst of our Fall Bake and Holiday period.
The combination of the solid merchandising and consumer marketing programs that we have in place and pricing insights gained from last year's holiday season provide us with cautious optimism that consumer takeaway will be stronger than that experienced by the industry and by our company during this timeframe last year.
Our encouragement comes from the progress that we have made on our key initiatives.
In particular our accomplishments in the area of brand building through product innovation and increased marketing investments along with the ongoing price leadership both have positioned us well for this key promotional period.
Vince will expand on these areas and our initiatives in a moment.
In addition while consumers remain cautious recent economic indicators and industry trends point towards modest improvement in the consumer environment.
Although these changes continue to occur at a gradual pace we anticipate industry volume trends will improve over time.
Finally let me comment on the impact of Hurricane Sandy.
While it had a disruptive effect on many people and retailers in the east our overall results have not been materially impacted.
We have worked closely with our customers to ensure that we are meeting their needs and those of our end consumers.
In support of relief efforts we have provided monetary assistance through the American Red Cross and product donations to the impacted areas through Feeding America.
Internally our facilities in that portion of the country sustained no significant damage and were up and running quickly after the storm passed.
While we recognize the aftermath of the storm continues to affect many people in that region we would like to thank our employees for their efforts in addressing these challenges.
In summary we are pleased with our performance for the first half of the fiscal year as they have exceeded our earnings and cash flow goals for the first 6 months.
With a commitment to our long-term strategy the strength of our leading brands and our employees' ability to implement our business is well positioned as we proceed through the remainder of the fiscal 2013 year.
As a result we are confident in increasing our full earnings guidance for the year as Mark will expand on in just a moment.
I will now turn the call over to Vince for an update on our business segments.
Thank you Richard.
Good morning everyone.
Let me begin by reinforcing that the company's performance through the first half of the year reflects the ongoing commitment to our key areas of focus which include building our brands through increased marketing support and innovation executing pricing leadership continuing to optimize our supply chain capitalizing on our recent acquisitions and focusing on sustainability.
To the point on pricing our teams are continuing to utilize the learnings from our marketing mix analysis performed in partnership with SymphonyIRI to target the most effective and efficient spend across our businesses.
We believe this ongoing analytical approach to our marketing and trade spend has elevated our capabilities allowing us to achieve better returns on our spend.
With that let me provide further commentary on the performance of our 3 business segments.
I'll start with the U.S.
Retail Coffee segment where strong performance across the portfolio led to a 6% increase in volume for the quarter.
This includes another solid quarter for our roasting ground products.
As we indicated on the last call our ability to achieve key price points has contributed significantly to the recent performance of our core Folgers Red Can business.
Last month we issued an 8-K regarding supplier-driven constraints for our retail coffee canisters.
This did have a slight impact on our volume performance in the quarter.
While our team continues to do a tremendous job actively managing this situation our customer service levels were below our internal and our customers' expectations as a result of the issue.
We expect this constraint to be fully behind us by the end of the third quarter allowing us to return to acceptable inventory levels by the end of the fiscal year.
As we proceed to the holiday period we have good promotional plans in place for Coffee albeit fewer than originally anticipated as we strategically manage demand with our expected product availability.
As a result of this constraint we anticipate a modest impact on volume for the third quarter but year-over-year Coffee volume is expected to grow slightly for the quarter.
The Dunkin' Donuts brand had a strong quarter with 11% volume growth following an 11% increase in the first quarter.
Our emphasis on managing price gaps with competition was a key contributor to this growth.
Also in the premium segment our relaunch of Folgers Gourmet Selection is proceeding well with good customer acceptance.
The Rowland Coffee brand once again delivered strong volume gains behind double-digit growth for the Café Bustelo brand in the quarter.
We anticipate continued strong performance for these brands and are just beginning to capitalize on growth opportunities of the business.
Finally let me turn to our K-Cup business which had another strong performance in the quarter.
Distribution gains and the success of new varieties both contributed to delivering an incremental $36 million in sales growth over last year's second quarter.
Although we believe the impact of the new unlicensed participants into the K-Cup segment will be modest this year we expect their entry will slow our percentage growth rate somewhat in the back half of the fiscal year.
Yet reflecting the strong second quarter contribution we are increasing our K-Cup sales growth projections for the full year to approximately 70% over fiscal '12 reaching close to $300 million in annual sales.
Underlining the performance of all of our Coffee brands is continued support of marketing investments including new TV advertisements.
Our marketing expense is up over 20% for the first half of the year including support behind our product innovation efforts with a significant increase in the second quarter.
At the same time Coffee profit -- segment profit grew 13% in the quarter.
Finally in regard to green coffee as anticipated during the second quarter we began to recognize lower coffee costs in our results which is expected to continue through the remainder of the fiscal year.
Keep in mind we took an early price decrease at the beginning of the fiscal year to reflect this expectation.
Additionally we're investing back into brands to support our key initiatives.
Turning now to Consumer Foods.
During the quarter we completed the back-to-school period a key season for PB&amp;J.
While peanut butter volume declined in the second quarter this was expected due to the strong prior year comp that reflected consumer volume in advance of the 30% price increase taken last November.
Through the first 6 months of 2013 volume for the Jif brand was in line with the prior year.
And in light of the higher pricing we are pleased with this performance.
As has widely been reported the current U.S.
peanut crop is the largest in history which will ultimately lead to lower cost.
Yet as we highlighted last quarter the lower spot prices are not necessarily indicative of the costs we are incurring given the long-term contracts we have in place.
In fact as the largest procurer of peanuts in the U.S.
we did take a longer-term position to ensure adequate supply encouraging farmers to plant peanuts as opposed to other crops.
For competitive reasons we do not disclose our coverage position or specific pricing plans.
Smucker's Uncrustables achieved another strong quarter with volume up 11% behind new product introductions and distribution gains.
However our fruit spread business fell short of our expectations in the quarter impacted by higher pricing during the key promotional periods as well as competitive activities.
We are implementing a number of short- and longer-term tactics to improve our performance including price reductions on selected items.
Let me now turn to the bake aisle and the start of the Fall Bake period.
Our Crisco oil business was down in the quarter and will continue to be challenged as we were not awarded the bake center merchandising at a key retailer that would have compressed margins below acceptable levels.
However we are optimistic about the performance of our Crisco brand at the majority of our other retailers where we have actively pursued opportunities to offset some of this bake center impact and expect to exceed last year's third quarter volume.
Although Pillsbury brand volume was down compared to last year's second quarter this was anticipated due to the effect of the cake mix downsizing.
Excluding this impact Pillsbury volume was up slightly for the first half of the year.
Product innovation including our seasonal offerings will continue to be a key driver of our performance in this category and we are pleased with our position as we proceed through Fall Bake.
Within our canned milk business our focus on optimizing pricing strategies led to solid volume gains during the quarter as our recent price decline helped lower price gaps with key competitors.
Lastly within Consumer Foods let me update our views relative to the Midwest drought from this past summer.
We do not anticipate a material impact on the company for the remainder of the fiscal year.
We have good visibility into our cost structure for the affected commodities those primarily being corn wheat and soybean oil through the end of the fiscal 2013 and we do not foresee the need to take pricing in the related categories for the rest of the fiscal year.
Let me now turn to International Foodservice and Natural Foods segment.
Much of the sales and segment profit growth in the quarter was attributed to the foodservice beverage acquisition led by the ongoing strong performance of the liquid coffee offerings.
During the quarter we communicated our intent to exit the remaining private label roasting ground business that was assumed in the acquisition.
While the impact for fiscal 2013 will be minimal we anticipate a reduction of $75 million to $100 million in annual net sales on a going-forward basis.
The transition will be completed in stages through the end of next year's second fiscal quarter resulting in improved profit margins for the business.
Overall the Foodservice acquisition has delivered better-than-planned segment profit for the first 6 months of 2013 and we look forward to capitalizing on the growth potential of the branded portfolio as we move ahead.
Other businesses that comprise the International Foodservice and Natural Foods segment also performed well in the quarter.
Excluding acquisition and divestiture activity volume grew 4% for the segment.
Growth was driven by strong performance in Fall Bake in Canada across its core categories including coffee fruit spreads and flour.
Our K-Cup's launch in Canada is contributing significantly to the growth of coffee.
In summary as we look to the second half of the fiscal year we are encouraged by the performance of our businesses and are confident in delivering another year of growth.
This is based on a number of factors including: the continued strong contribution from product innovation including the success of K-Cups and seasonal coffee and baking offerings; the benefits being realized from our focus on optimizing everyday and promotional price points; the consumer marketing and quality merchandising programs in place across our brands in support of the key Fall Bake and Holiday periods; and finally our expectations that the overall volume trends will continue to improve gradually across the industry.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mark to discuss our consolidated results.
Thank you Vince.
Net sales increased $115 million or 8% in the second quarter reflecting over $90 million in incremental sales related to the foodservice beverage acquisition.
Mix continued to positively benefit sales growth while helping to offset the impact of lower volume of which some was planned.
The effects of higher peanut butter and lower coffee prices yielded a slight decline in net pricing.
GAAP earnings per share were $1.36 this quarter and $1.12 in the second quarter of last year.
Special project cost as defined in our press release and reflected in GAAP earnings once again declined on a year-over-year basis as the underlying activities continue to wind down.
On a full year basis we now expect these costs to approximate $0.40 per share a decrease from our original guidance of $0.50.
The change primarily reflect the shift in timing of certain cash-related charges associated with our restructuring activities and a reduction in expected special pension cost.
Excluding special project costs earnings per share were $1.45 this quarter and $1.29 in last year's second quarter an increase of 12%.
Excluding the prior year loss on sale that Richard noted earlier non-GAAP EPS was up 7%.
Operating income excluding special project cost increased $20 million or 8% for the quarter reflecting a $33 million increase in gross profit.
Both years were impacted by a nearly equal $10 million in losses from unrealized mark-to-market adjustment on derivative contracts.
The increase in gross profit was driven by the acquired foodservice business along with favorable mix.
Overall commodity costs were lower in the current quarter compared to the prior year as declines in green coffee were only partially offset by higher cost for peanuts.
On a full year basis we expect the net impact of commodity cost changes within our basket of goods will continue to be favorable driven by green coffee cost.
The growth in gross profit for the second quarter was partially offset by a 9% increase in SD&amp;A expenses.
This reflects an 11% increase in marketing expenses associated with the Sara Lee business along with higher general and administrative expenses primarily driven by increased incentive compensation and pension cost.
The effective income tax rate was 33.6% in the second quarter bringing the rate for the first 6 months to 33.7% which is in line with the prior year.
We now anticipate the full year effective tax rate to be at the high end of our original range or approximately 34.5%.
This will force out a rate of nearly 35.5% for the back half of the year.
The expected increase which will mostly impact the third quarter is driven primarily by a recent state tax legislative change in California.
Let me now provide a brief update on our supply chain projects.
This quarter we essentially completed our coffee restructuring initiative including the expansion of our 2 facilities in New Orleans.
This was a complex multiyear cross-functional project and we would like to thank the team for their tremendous efforts.
We were pleased the project was completed on time on budget and is delivering expected savings.
In addition our new $150 million food manufacturing facility in Orrville continues to ramp up production as planned with approximately 25% of our fruit spread volume already being produced at the new plant.
The full transition remains on schedule for next summer.
Turning to cash flow.
Cash provided by operations was $183 million in the second quarter compared to $118 million last year reflecting a net decrease in working capital among other factors.
Capital expenditures were $52 million in the quarter bringing the total to nearly $100 million for the first half of the year.
We now expect a full year spend of approximately $225 million.
With these results and our anticipated earnings guidance we are now projecting free cash flow will exceed $650 million for the full year.
During the quarter we borrowed $20 million against our revolving credit facility to partially fund the $171 million utilized for the share repurchase program.
All borrowings were repaid by the end of the quarter and we do not anticipate the need to draw additional funds for normal operating requirements for the balance of the fiscal year.
Let me conclude by updating our full year net sales and EPS outlook for 2013.
We continue to anticipate an increase in net sales of approximately 7% with much of the growth coming from the 8 incremental months of the foodservice acquisition.
Reflecting the lower expectation for our oils business and the modest impact of the coffee canister supply constraint we now project volume in the back half of fiscal 2013 will be up slightly compared to the prior year.
Considering these factors our first half earnings results and the impact of our share repurchase earlier this year we now expect non-GAAP income per diluted share in the range of $5.12 to $5.22 for 2013.
This range is based on approximately 109.2 million weighted average shares outstanding for the purpose of calculating annual EPS.
Our current shares outstanding are approximately 108.5 million.
In closing let me reiterate that we are pleased with our performance through the first half of 2013 and look forward to continuing this momentum throughout the rest of the fiscal year.
With that we will open up the call to your questions.
Operator could you please queue up the first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'm hearing some things you're saying about pricing that are interesting.
You mentioned having to take down pricing in fruit spreads because of competitive activity.
You've moved some spending from it sounds like advertising to promotional spending this quarter across Consumer Foods and you took down your coffee prices it sounds like by a greater degree than your underlying cost went down.
And that's unusual versus your history if I'm hearing it right.
So you've highlighted U.S.
Consumer spending getting better but it almost seems like the actions you're taking on price suggests a reaction to the opposite.
So I'm just curious if you can reconcile this a bit for us and help us understand why we shouldn't be a little bit concerned about the competitive environment maybe forcing you to be a little bit more careful on pricing right now than you otherwise would be.
Ken this is Vince.
Let me start then we're going to turn it over to Paul and Mark to give color from their respective business areas.
But I think you may recall from the last 2 or 3 quarters we talked a lot about sharpening our price points and it really does vary by category.
And sort of by definition we say that entails everything from closing some pricing gaps to reflecting the absolute reduction of some of our commodity costs that specifically in coffee have got us to some price points that we weren't before.
It talk about truly leveraging better some of our promotional and trade spend to make those more effective and efficient.
So I guess I would just say from a macro perspective those are the things that we're looking at.
We did lean forward into some price reductions at the beginning of the year on coffee.
But it really does vary category by category.
So with that I'll turn it over to Paul and Mark.
Ken Paul here.
Just on 2 key categories.
First fruit spreads.
We have seen some decline in fruit spread volume overall which is a concern to us.
There's really a few things that are driving that.
The first is we did take 2 price increases last fiscal year.
And we know that we have some pricing gaps on shelf and we've crossed some deciles that are -- that we know are impacting our overall volume.
So we did take the opportunity to take some pricing down in some of our key areas like our better-for-you segments and on one key large-sized or 32 ounce strawberry which actually goes into effect this month.
So we do recognize that we have some trends that are down but we think we have some good pricing in place to correct that.
Also on milk we were able to take price decline on milk and we did see some nice volume increase in the past quarter.
So we feel good where we stand with those 2 opportunities at this point fruit spreads clearly being the one that's  the more concerning to us but we feel we have some good plans in place to start turning that business around.
Ken this is Mark Smucker.
Just quickly I think Vince said very well on Coffee we did take a decline in the first quarter ahead of costs moderating.
But the point there was to really position ourselves well for the key fall period which we've done and to make sure that the absolute price as well as the gaps within the segment were right to help drive volume.
And so we have increased spending on advertising.
We're focusing a lot of dollars on TV equity.
And as was in the script also the promotions that we have done have been very targeted very effective.
Our next question will come from Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess a couple of questions.
First Mark the $5.12 to $5.22 can you just remind me does that assume some kind of mark-to-market hedge either gain or loss over the year? No.
That -- we obviously have had somewhat significant gains and losses unrealized over the last couple of quarters.
But that would factor in over the course of the rest of the year to reflect the actual cost of the commodity received.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess switching to the coffee supply constraint issue the -- I guess there were some rumors in the market and you came out with a press release saying that that was not going to be I guess material.
But it sounds like it's -- I mean the good news is you have the demand but the bad news is that you're having some supply constraint.
So -- and you're calling out that it could actually impact volume for the total company.
So I guess what gives us confidence that the supply constraint is going to be resolved? And is competition trying to take advantage of the situation? Maybe you just can go into a little more detail.
Sure Eric.
This is Mark Smucker.
Let me just start by clarifying that the canister supply constraint was -- is not a quality or shortage of resin.
It's just related to operational issues at the supplier and we are working on a daily basis with them.
We have great visibility both backward into the supply chain as well as forward into our customers and we're confident that the actions we've put in place are resolving the issue.
We actually have some new capacity that has come online in the last couple weeks which is helping and we have seen sustainable operational improvements from that supplier.
So although it has -- it impacted volume and -- slightly we do believe that we are managing it very effectively.
And from a competitive standpoint we're not seeing any activity that would lead us to believe that it's any different from what we've already put in place from a promotional standpoint.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then last thing I guess to either maybe Vince or Richard.
Just I guess industry-wise you're -- to a certain extent you're in a position where your -- some of your costs are either going down over time or have moderated so you don't feel the need to put through pricing.
And maybe because of that your categories look a little healthier than they did.
But to the extent that you're making comments about the industry isn't it fair to say that those companies that have a weighting towards the grain complex corn et cetera that they are seeing inflation that they're going to have to put through pricing in this dynamic of higher pricing and then weaker volume and demand elasticity is a challenge that kind of continues into calendar '13? Just how do you react to that? Yes.
Eric this is Richard.
Quickly I don't know what the position is for other companies and our competitors.
But our position on the commodities we're in good shape.
And when we went into the summer months and the drought we all read about the drought and saw the drought and saw the impact on the margins on the prices of the commodities we were pretty well covered.
And so I'm not sure what our competitors are doing but we feel very confident that our positions are good for the remainder of the fiscal year and that our margins are going to be solid for the remainder of the fiscal year.
So the impact on us was relatively minor.
And again I think we're in pretty good position.
Going back just a second on the Coffee.
The supply issue was -- had a -- not a significant impact on our second quarter and we're -- our teams did a wonderful job of getting us out of it.
And certainly by the end of this quarter the third quarter we don't see any more disruption by the supplier.
So we should be in good shape without any major impact.
Our next question comes from Jon Feeney of Janney.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to think about the -- both the likely effect of what pricing is doing right now in the Jif business.
And if the interplay -- maybe give us some color on the interplay the gyrations of the peanut butter business have had on your spreads business and how that's likely to play out over the next 12 months.
Does the normalization of declining costs a little bit more promotion perhaps some accelerating volume in response to that smooth out the spreads business as well as the peanut butter business? Jon just going back to first Jif and the peanut butter business.
Obviously the crop as we know as Vince mentioned in his comments is a record crop.
We know we're going to get very good quality peanuts for all of our needs.
And as we also mentioned we've taken a longer-term position on our peanuts so we're not going to see some immediate effect of the peanut -- the cheaper peanuts.
That being said we do know that at some point we will need to take a price decline of some sort and we would anticipate that being beneficial to the overall category.
And I'm saying the overall spreads category we'd anticipate people coming back into the category a little bit more.
The timing on that is not definite at this point.
But we feel good overall with our Jif business the first 6 months and we'd expect that to be pretty good.
Did I answer your question? I can't -- was there another part of your...
Research Division</strong> The interaction with spreads.
Yes with the interaction with the spreads category.
Again I think on the JJP our fruit spreads part of the business the pricing is one of the key elements that has made that business a little struggling right now along with we had some competitive activity that -- with some new products that were launched that we were fighting.
But I think with the peanut pricing overall abating in the next back half of the year we should see that have a positive impact on our overall spreads business.
Research Division</strong> And if I could just follow up on the Jif piece.
I guess presumably others in the industry may not be as contracted as you are.
And I guess have you seen in the marketplace the impact of that -- others taking price declines? And do you -- in those cases -- I mean does that accelerate the category and maybe not hurt you as much? Because -- or I mean -- are others in the industry hedged the way you are do you get the sense? Or from -- just from what you've seen in the marketplace.
I know you have no idea how they're hedged.
Right right we don't.
But I think the answer is we have seen some small price declines right now that we've heard that are going to be taking place or have taken place.
We wouldn't anticipate seeing a major impact to the overall spreads category definitely not through this calendar year.
But in the back half of our fiscal year we would anticipate seeing that pick up.
Jason English of Goldman Sachs has our next question.
Research Division</strong> Question on marketing spend.
I think you were coming into this year guiding to 20% constant currency increase in overall for marketing.
It sounds like you're tracking above that in Coffee.
But at the aggregate firm level I think 1/2 -- first half you're at 9%.
Is this because you're dialing back marketing spend or is this a timing issue with it being more back-half loaded? It's primarily the timing issue Jason.
We expect -- particularly the fourth quarter we had a pretty soft marketing spend last year's fourth quarter and obviously ramped up significantly.
So you'll see an increase above where we've been running.
I don't -- we're not going to be at the 20%.
But one thing is -- I think is a key takeaway that we're quite comfortable with the level particularly the TV advertising that we have on air especially right now.
So the fact that we're not at the 20% that we spoke to in June I wouldn't get overly worried about that.
And then the only other comment on the marketing just to kind of put things in perspective marketing was up 11% and we did talk of -- a little bit about some of the marketing spend was redirected to trade spend but that was only a couple million dollars.
So it really does not have a significant effect on the marketing -- overall marketing spend.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And this private label liquid coffee business that you're exiting part of what you acquired I think you quantified the sales impact.
Is there a bottom line impact with that exit as well? Jason Steve Oakland.
First of all just to be clear the Coffee business that we're exiting is a private label roast and ground business.
The liquid coffee business -- the liquid coffee concentrate business I know it's confusing which one of those is which is all branded.
That will not have a bottom line impact.
The exit of the roast and ground business was basically a business where they traded dollars so.
It will improve margins though because you take the top line.
To be clear it will improve the segment's margins so it will not affect the penny profit.
We'll go next to David Driscoll of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Two questions first one is just on earnings growth.
Mark maybe this is probably appropriate for you.
But earnings growth is expected to be quite a bit faster in the second half of the year.
By my math I think the first half grew around 5.5% and the second half will have to grow around 8% to 12% to reach your guidance.
So at the top end of the second half there it's basically twice the rate of growth that we saw in the first half.
Is this – I'd really just like to hear your thoughts on what drives the fairly significant change in the rate of growth.
And I certainly remember and recognize the weak comp in the third quarter last year I mean is that the entire reason or maybe you could just expound on that? Sure.
We got you.
This is Mark.
A couple things and you're correct.
In terms of just rate of growth the second half is clearly faster than the first and this was actually expected.
I think when we talked in June we said we expected to see margins grow throughout the year.
Clearly the lower costs that we're seeing come through now on green coffee it's continuing to have a benefit to us.
We've recognized favorable mix as well and we spoke that we're actually taking our projection up for example on our K-Cup up to 70% growth year-over-year.
So that too will have a positive effect on the back half.
So those 2 things are primarily the key drivers.
As we mentioned we expect volume to be up modestly so that'll contribute a little bit as well.
Research Division</strong> So that leads maybe really nicely into my second question.
You mentioned right there that the declining green coffee prices would be a benefit.
But in today's release it reads a little differently and maybe you can reconcile the comments.
And my basic question here was how do you get 13% profit growth in coffee if you have price declines that more than offset the decline in green coffee? And can you maintain the algorithm? I think you basically just said you could.
But can you discuss that a little bit? It -- yes.
It really did -- it really does come back to the mix.
I mean our coffee and again K-Cup and the growth that we're seeing we talked about a little bit slowing down on some of our baking items but just the coffee mix being such a larger percentage of the overall is going to -- is really what's driving that.
Alexia Howard of Sanford Bernstein has our next question.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask about uses of cash? I think you made some comments about where we are in the buyback at the end of the prepared remarks.
But weighing up buybacks versus more tuck-in acquisitions or other potential uses of cash how are you prioritizing things from here on? Sure.
This is Mark Belgya.
I'll speak to that then maybe I'll just pitch it back to Richard for a couple of comments on the M&amp;A environment.
We've been pretty consistent quite honestly for those of you who have followed us that we do feel very strongly about our cash deployment being between both growth of the company and return to the shareholder.
And acquisitions are obviously very key to our strategy so that's always going to sit at the top.
But having said that we do intend to direct about half of our cash from operations to acquisitions and CapEx and the other half to dividend and repurchase.
Clearly there's a lot of uncertainty in today's market around the fiscal cliff.
So we'll continue to evaluate where we head in terms of that mix between buyback and dividend.
But we're going to continue to focus on doing that – doing both of those over time.
So let me just throw it back to Richard just for a couple of brief comments on sort of the M&amp;A environment.
Yes.
A couple things on the M&amp;A environment.
Obviously we still think there are some great opportunities for Smucker's out there.
Timing is the key and we're not exactly sure when those opportunities will hit.
But we do have our list of key brands that we think fit and we're always pretty aggressive in pursuing those.
I think the environment is good because companies are looking for what to keep in their portfolio and what not to keep in their portfolio.
So we think there'll be maybe a couple things that shake loose in the next 12 to 18 months.
So I think the environment is pretty solid and we hope to be able to do something in the next 12 to 18 months.
We'll go next to Farha Aslam of Stephens.
Research Division</strong> During the quarter there was a peanut butter recall by a competitor.
I was wondering if that impacted or benefited Jif and if that impacted or benefited the fruit spreads and Uncrustables business? Farha Steve Oakland.
Let me give a little detail on that.
That recall was by an organization that does primarily co-packing of private label brands that makes ingredient peanut butter and makes peanut butter for the USDA school foodservice program.
And so it's interesting some of those small companies as we've seen in these recalls in the past reach of a lot of large companies from an ingredient supply standpoint.
The only place that it impacted Smucker was they are one of the USDA's commodity suppliers for the school lunch program.
As you may be aware I think many of you know we have a unique opportunity in school lunch.
We provide literally millions of branded center-of-the-plate peanut butter and jelly sandwiches every week to the school foodservice program.
The downside to that is it's not always our peanut butter about 1/3 of that is our peanut butter and 2/3 of that comes from other peanut sources.
We did receive peanut butter from the affected corporation.
We test that product on the way in and we test that product on the way out.
We're comfortable all of that product was fine.
But out of an abundance of caution we did recall a small number of institutional -- no retail institutional school foodservice peanut butter and jelly sandwiches.
So every time that happens we really take a look at the role of that program.
We think although it's strategically important where should that capacity go.
So we'll continue to evaluate our participation in that and whether we'll accept peanut butter from those people.
But that's well behind us and does not appear frankly to have affected us in retail or have affected us in Foodservice.
No.
Farha this is Paul.
That did not affect us in either Jif or retail Uncrustables.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one follow-up.
Your kind of Canadian and what do you call International Foodservice and Natural Foods outperformed my expectations.
Is it the Sara Lee acquisition that's doing better than you had anticipated? Or is it the Canadian Thanksgiving that really helped those numbers? Farha I think fortunately it's both.
Our Canadian business was on a great role from a market share and an executional standpoint and their core categories are performing well.
As you know their Thanksgiving comes a little earlier than ours so we get a good look at it early.
And then the Sara Lee liquid coffee business is -- although we're working through this private label roast and ground thing the core liquid coffee businesses is nicely ahead of last year.
We'll go next to Akshay Jagdale of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> So my first question really is on volumes.
So I think if I remember correctly you mentioned roughly flattish volume expectation for the back half.
One is that correct? And two why shouldn't it be much higher given that last year you had a on average I think 8.5% decrease in volumes which primarily resulted in your lower than expected EPS results last year? So help me understand one what your guidance on volume is? Why it's that way in light of all the positive commentary you're making on consumer spending and some of the price gaps that you seem to have corrected? Akshay this is Vince and I'll start and will turn it to the business leads.
But first of all I think we are probably being cautiously optimistic based upon some of the economic trends.
We do anticipate volume to be up in the back half of the year.
But when -- again when you take a look at our pricing we're still at pretty high levels vis-à-vis even 2 years ago whether that be on coffee or peanut butter of course in particular.
So those are the 2 -- I guess those would be the primary factors.
And as Mark indicated our Coffee volume will be still affected somewhat in the third quarter because of the canister issue although we do anticipate hopefully being up during the quarter.
So I think it's just being a little bit cautiously optimistic about -- as we go into the back half.
And I'll ask the business units if they have anything to add on that.
Akshay this is Paul.
Yes just from a Consumer Foods perspective we also have the cake downsize which overall affects our volume.
Although we feel pretty good about that -- the baking business we're going to be affected volume there.
And we had some planned rationalization of some flour business that's decent volume but has no material impact to the segment profit.
Akshay this is Richard.
I'm just so glad you asked that question because as you know I have this issue about overall volume for the company.
You have to look at volume by individual category that we're in.
Because when you add it all up to one total number it's like adding apples and oranges.
Because as you know a pound of K-Cups is worth a lot more than a pound of cooking oil.
So we try to look category by category and -- but I appreciate you asking that question just so I can make that comment.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And second question on K-Cups.
I mean first of all congratulations.
I mean it seems like it's going much better than even you had planned and the numbers that you're guiding to are really impressive.
But just I do follow that category closely and the concern there is that competition is heating up and it's going to impact pricing and margins quite frankly.
So you mentioned that you're not seeing it to that level.
I mean you're not seeing "any price war." It looks like you're very optimistic about the back half.
I think if I do the math it still assumes roughly 50% year-over-year growth on some pretty impressive growth numbers in the back half.
So can you -- I mean more than just reiterating what you said I would like you to give me some color on why you believe your guidance is achievable and how you come to that conclusion.
I mean is it talking to retailers? I mean why wouldn't private label and some other brands have a more meaningful impact on not only your business but the overall category's profit pool? This is Richard.
Let me just start by -- and Ken Goldman asked this question initially about pricing and where our pricing is and how important that is.
Price is extremely important to us extremely important to our customers and to our consumers and we have to make sure that our pricing is right that we know that we're the leading brand that we're transparent with our customers.
But we also know that we can't be too high above our key customers or too high above private label.
As you recall by a year or so ago we got a little bit out of the line in our pricing.
And so we've looked very very hard at our pricing to make sure that we have those right deciles and have the right spreads.
And I think we've done a much better job and it's showing up on our top and bottom line this year.
And so we feel much more comfortable going into the back half of the year.
In addition to that I think our commodity teams have done a wonderful job in positioning the company well in terms of where we stand in all of our purchasing of our key raw materials.
So I think we can afford to make sure that we've got the right pricing points for the remainder of the year and we want to keep that momentum going.
Akshay this is Mark Smucker.
To answer your question a little more specifically and start by saying a couple of things.
K-Cup still brings new users into the category.
And sure eventually K-Cup is settling into -- it's still in the process of settling into its fair share of the category but it is still bringing new users into the category.
The second thing is again we participate in all of our categories essentially most of them have private label and we're comfortable competing in that environment.
As it relates to private label and some of the new unlicensed competitors I would say that the pipeline fill has been slow and we haven't seen as much broad gains in distribution that maybe would have been anticipated.
Having said that there is some tiering in the category.
But we feel confident that being partnered with Green Mountain we will be able to maintain relative cost and quality advantages that the consumer has shown a willingness to pay for that and then pay for the convenience of the K-Cup in general.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And one last question on acquisitions.
Can you just update us on the accretion just longer term for Rowland and Sara Lee? I know you pushed back Sara Lee's $0.10 accretion beyond this year.
But can you just update us? I mean are those both fiscal '14 phenomena? And you were obviously going through some transition on the cost side for Rowland and it looks like the top line is going as you planned.
But can you just help us with the accretion for those 2 acquisitions specifically? Sure.
Akshay this is Mark Belgya.
Big picture we're still comfortable with I think if I recall correctly both Rowland and the Sara Lee acquisition.
We put $0.10 out for each of those from an EPS perspective.
I think as Steve mentioned the segment profit on the Sara Lee business is a little bit ahead of plan.
So we are seeing that flow through a little bit more this year.
But I'd say right now I would hold to those numbers.
We'll obviously comment on that as we get a little farther into this year and certainly as we look out into '14.
We'll go next to Scott Mushkin of Jefferies and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Mike Otway in for Scott.
Just wanted to circle back on the commentary from the release and from earlier in the call regarding the consumer and what seems to be like some increased enthusiasm in your part given kind of from what we see most of the food-at-home retailers don't appear to be experiencing that much change.
So any thoughts on what's driving that would be great.
Well this is Richard.
We're cautiously optimistic.
We look at -- first of all we look at our categories.
And if you think about our categories we're pretty fundamental categories in terms of the basics that consumers need and buy and put in their pantry especially for the holiday period.
So we feel good about the categories where we participate in.
But that being said it's a tough market out there and there are consumers that are looking at their budget and want to stretch it as far as possible.
So we're trying to make sure that we have the right promotions to address that group of consumers.
And at the same time as Mark said there's a group of consumers out there that are willing to pay the extra for convenience and we want to make sure that we have products in all of our categories that allow us to do that also.
So I -- we're -- I want to emphasize that we're cautiously optimistic.
But we -- the market hasn't turned around entirely but it is -- from our categories we're seeing a little light at the end of the tunnel.
And I would -- this is Vince.
I would add that if you look at a number of indicators from food and beverage across the industry that -- and even the results of some of the more major competitor you're seeing some increase in volume or at least not to the declining levels that we have seen in the past.
So if you sort of take a look at all of those including some statistics by the commerce department on some -- on the retail and foodservice dollars spent we're just seeing a slight uptick.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate it.
And then just as a quick follow-up here.
Trying to understand the Coffee category a little better maybe what you're seeing.
Our observations at Retail suggest the category remains pretty competitive.
You've got some competitors like Starbucks who are pricing their ground or K-Cups at or below Folgers in some of the markets we see.
Are you seeing any competitive response from the actions that you guys have taken to realign some of the prices? And in terms of where you are with that realignment are you kind of completely done with it across the coffee portfolio? Or are you kind of almost done there? Any color there would be great.
Sure.
Let me start just on the K-Cup comment.
I mentioned in my previous comment there's some tiering but we're not seeing that entirely on a national basis at this point.
But on the category as a whole in particular roast and ground on the last call we talked about the smoothing of the hourglass if you will the migration of consumers back to the core center of the category.
And we are seeing that.
So our core Red Can business is doing very well.
We have seen -- as the price points compressed in the category we had seen consumers move back to the center.
The premium segment is still doing very well and continues its growth.
But again I would return to our ability to get our pricing right and we are able to compete very effectively.
Despite the competitive environment our categories our brand is doing very well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And do you -- and from a -- where you are today versus where you need to be from a price realignment standpoint how far along in that process are you? Completely done or...
Well I think again -- I'm sorry the last part? Well again we're transparent with our pricing.
And as our cost indicator dictate we would move pricing.
Consistent with what we said last quarter we don't see any action in that area through the key holiday period.
But once we get past it we will look at it and evaluate whether or not there needs to be any movement.
Ann Gurkin of Davenport has our next question.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to return to the conversation about the contribution from the Sara Lee acquisition and it's running a little bit ahead of schedule.
Can you comment on what's driving that slightly better performance for the Sara Lee coffee business? Sure Ann.
Steve Oakland.
I think really just momentum from the team.
When that group of folks joined us we reorganized our Foodservice group.
We now have a direct organization selling coffee.
There's a lot of energy around it here although there's been a lot of change.
And frankly the volume is up a little bit.
So we're very encouraged by all of those factors.
So -- and we've been transparent with pricing and all the things you have to do in the Coffee business.
So I would say it's really the effort of a North American team behind it.
Steve you might comment about the integration work that was done in -- very quickly across our company.
Yes.
We -- I know we talked about integration earlier on other calls.
We were very concerned about this business coming in given the -- all of the distraction of the changes of Sara Lee.
So we really put a full-court press on it.
We integrated it much faster than we integrate most acquisitions and had it in our order-to-cash process in all of our operations in sales and marketing processes earlier than normal for an acquisition of this size and that appears to be paying dividends.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
I didn't know if you were gaining new accounts or new business anything like that? We've had a couple of great ones.
Obviously our competitors came after us initially and we've defended those.
And we have had a couple of new customers join the liquid coffee business.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then I'm intrigued by the comment about consumer spending on the upswing.
And have you kind of run that thesis that expectation through the second half now? I mean are you expecting this momentum to continue? And kind of as we face potential fiscal cliff and a worried consumer I'm just curious about that comment.
Ann this is Mark Belgya.
I guess just in terms of the guidance I mean the volume that we have talked about this morning and the numbers that we've included in our range of guidance that reflects our best take.
I mean certainly we're not – none of us are sure what's going to happen and I guess that's where the cautious optimism is around is that if there are a -- an event or a series of events then that changes the dynamics.
But at least the way we see the world right now that's all sort of been factored into our guidance thinking.
We'll go next to John Baumgartner of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Again just in terms of a little bit of positive outlook here for the consumer.
Is there anything in particular you can point out in terms of what you're seeing? Is it mostly a response to moderating food inflation? I mean do you seen any greater willingness maybe to undertake some pantry restocking here that we haven't seen it in quite some time? Just your thoughts on that.
This is Richard.
We've seen -- again we're just looking at the numbers and we're seeing a slight uptick and some takeaway.
We've seen trips to the stores go down but actually volume of people shopping higher which those kind of offset each other to a little bit.
But it's just small incremental moves.
But again in our categories we've seen a little bit better than that because of the types of categories that we're in.
But I will caution you that until we get some of these things solved on a fiscal basis on a national level whether it's a fiscal cliff or just getting our act together in Washington there'll be a cautious consumer out there.
And we're taking that into consideration when we look at our numbers and doing our forecasting.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a follow-up on the M&amp;A front.
Wondering if you can provide any insights into your work with Seamild and the potential maybe from additional M&amp;A internationally in China or even maybe expanding more into the Natural Foods segment here in the U.S.? John the Seamild relationship as you know is relatively new but we couldn't be more pleased with the progress there.
The more we learn about that company the more unique we think they are.
They are brand focused.
During this quarter Seamild opened a new production facility just south of Beijing.
A large part of our investment in Seamild went to capitalize that facility and it will give them the capacity to better serve northern China.
And so we're very excited about being closer to them learning more from them.
Would we love to have another bolt-on in China? Yes but it's as you know a complicated and difficult environment to identify those and the team's working hard to do that.
So if that happens it'll be -- it'll have to be the right business.
Yes.
And you might comment on the Natural Foods in terms of some opportunities I think in Natural that -- as we continue to look at that market.
Absolutely.
As you know our Natural Foods segment is very strong in United States.
And the Chinese consumer with all of the foods scare and all the concern about their food supply chain the Natural Foods segment of China is growing very quickly and we think there's an opportunity for us to enter that from an import basis.
Ed Aaron of RBC Capital Markets has our next question.
LLC Research Division</strong> I think you said in your prepared remarks that marketing spending was up 20% in Coffee year-to-date.
Did I hear that correctly? And then if so I think it would kind of imply very little if any growth in marketing for the Consumer segment.
And I think a couple quarters ago you had mentioned that your spending plans would be fairly well balanced between the 2.
So I'm just trying to understand if maybe the shift in Consumer segment from spending kind of to above-the-line promotions has been maybe that much more significant or if I'm kind of misunderstanding something on the -- on how the marketing line works this year? Ed this is Mark Belgya.
You're right in your take in terms of the market that we did take up our margin increase significantly in Coffee and then not much or down on the Consumer Foods side.
But as we've said we have moved some of that into trade spend to get the pricing right in that.
But I don't know if it's significantly different.
I mean we have had the opportunity to spend behind on our Coffee business and marketing.
That'll probably be a little more evenly split throughout the rest of the back half of the year between the 2 respective segments.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my other question following up on peanut butter.
You mentioned likely having to take some price down at some point which makes sense.
Do you anticipate being able to hold off on that until your cost position improves? Because it sounds like you might be kind of farther out on the cost curve than your competitors may be.
So I'm wondering if there might be a bit of a timing mismatch that could pressure gross margins at some point in the future.
Ed Paul here.
And first off we aren't going to give the timing exactly when we'd be looking at a price decline so we recognize that and we are a little bit further out on peanut butter.
And again keep in mind that the reason we go longer at times on peanut butter is to ensure that we get enough peanuts and high-quality peanuts for our needs and we were able to do that.
So there may be a little gap in there as far as the exact timing on the pricing of our high-cost peanuts versus some of the lower-cost peanuts.
But we feel pretty good overall about how that's going to work out.
Our final question will come from Andrew Lazar of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Richard one quick follow-up on your -- some of your commentary around the M&amp;A environment with some assets may be looking to shake loose from some of the larger branded players.
Just so I'm clear what do you think is driving that change in thinking by some of the larger branded players relative to their lack of interest perhaps in doing that over the last couple of years? Well I think on the big international companies they're looking country by country.
And they're probably looking and we've seen this they're looking at what's a global brand and what's not a global brand.
And if it's -- if they're not global brand we've seen some of them say "Hey I think we ought to maybe get it out of our portfolio." And they're also looking -- what we've seen is region by region.
And up until recently when the developed countries were growing so fast they were maybe looking at spending money there and taking some of the assets out of some of the mature markets.
And those are things that we -- for us since we are in the mature markets of North America we look at those opportunities when they become available.
But that's kind of the strategy we've seen play out in the last couple of years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess last would be there are some companies in this space that even in this environment are pretty insistent that they will use pricing up and down to offset kind of input cost moves and that frees up productivity to either reinvest behind the business or come back to shareholders.
And there are many others that have said "In this environment that's just not realistic." And they've had to use really more of a combinational of levers whether it be not just pricing but productivity and such to do that.
I'm trying to get a sense of at the corporate level how you guys think about that.
And does it sort of vacillate between one or the other? Or are you also insistent on pricing has got to cover your costs and then productivity can kind of fund the rest? Well we've always looked -- I'll let Vince add to this.
But we've always looked at all of those opportunities.
We've -- as you know we've made huge investments in our plants in recent years.
And if you -- I don't have the number off the top of my -- tip of my tongue but we've closed a number of facilities in the last 10 years probably 8 or so and consolidated those and made major investments in plants so that we can improve our productivity.
And I think we -- our teams have done a great job of doing that.
That being said though is that we've really taken a hard look at pricing as we've said several times in the call today.
So we are going to continue to push all those levers because we really can't rely upon any one.
We have to make sure that they're all working all those levers in the right direction really to hit the good bottom line and get good growth.
We sometimes will sacrifice margins to get some growth numbers or to get market share.
But we try to balance that and we try to have each brand and each category carry its own weight.
So we really don't like to have one losing money just to drive the top line.
So I don't know Vince you're on that day to day.
Yes.
No but I think it was well said.
I think first of all we try to take a long-term view towards investing in our brands.
We do make some short-term actions from time to time on a brand or a category if we feel that we need to be more competitive.
We do ask each brand to try to stand on its own as we do our planning and go through the year.
If there is one significant change we've made on the fiscal year of looking at how we apply our pricing it's those that we articulated earlier as it relates to getting a little -- sharpening those price points and being more effective with our depth and frequency of our promotional spending and I think that's all paid dividends.
But again we try to take a long-term view and we'll pull all the levers that are available to us in order to grow the businesses.
If we find ourself in a favorable position on -- for a quarter or 2 relative to an input cost like in Coffee we'll invest that money back.
And I think that's played out in our 20% increase in marketing this year to-date.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I know that Richard you had said earlier in the year I think in February you didn't anticipate there being kind of a race to the bottom if you will right from an industry perspective around promotional spending and such.
And I'm curious if that's – I assume that's still very much where you're -- what you're thinking about.
I just -- in hearing some of the commentary I guess on the call and sort of the way the stock has kind of behaved at least this morning on some of the commentary it certainly seems like there's more concern out there right as of kind of the comments today around price and promotion.
And that may not be what you're really trying to communicate.
Maybe just as -- I don't know just a final statement.
Just hearing you out on that and making sure we're really clear on kind of how you see that.
Yes that is fair.
I mean if you look at our pricing and our margins they're -- as they go up through the year are improving.
So we do not see any type of race to the bottom.
And we're – again we're upping our year-end forecast because we are seeing in our case more volume and better pricing.
So I'm not sure where that billing is out there in the street because certainly that's not the case for our business.
And I'll let Mark – Mark has a comment on this too.
Andrew one last thing and it didn't come out maybe as early.
But from a sort of first half versus second half I mean I think you need to understand that we're clearly recognizing lower costs particularly green coffee costs in the back half of the year.
So you are going to see margin improvement.
And shift that position from a costing perspective that is allowing the flexibility necessary to address pricing and still drive top and bottom line growth.
So hopefully that encompasses our view and addresses maybe some of the concerns that some of you may have out there but still very -- we are doing all the right things and look forward to the -- to a very successful 2013.
Yes.
We're feeling pretty optimistic so -- in spite of what's happening maybe in the marketplace in terms of what's happening in Washington.
But we're optimistic about our business.
And I want to thank everyone for the call today and wish you and your families a wonderful holiday season.
Ladies and gentlemen if you wish to access the rebroadcast after this live call you may do so by dialing 1 (888) 203-1112 or 1 (719) 457-0820 with the passcode of 9289404.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the J.M.
Smucker Company's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference call over to Sonal Robinson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Ms.
Robinson.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our third quarter earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
On the call with me are Richard Smucker Chief Executive Officer; Vince Byrd President and Chief Operating Officer; Mark Belgya Chief Financial Officer; Steve Oakland President International Foodservice and Natural Foods; Mark Smucker President U.S.
Retail Coffee; and Paul Smucker Wagstaff President U.S.
Retail Consumer Foods.
Following this introduction I will turn the call over to Richard for opening remarks.
Vince will then discuss the results for our business segments and Mark will close with additional comments on our financial results for the quarter and our outlook for the full year.
As you may know the company will be presenting at the CAGNY Conference next Tuesday February 19.
We look forward to updating you on many of our key strategic initiatives at CAGNY.
Therefore our prepared comments today will be shorter than usual.
During this call we may make forward-looking statements that reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates and actual results may differ materially due to risk and uncertainties.
I encourage you to read the full disclosure statement in the press release concerning forward-looking statements.
Let me also remind you that the company uses non-GAAP results for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.
Additional discussion on non-GAAP information is detailed in our press release located on our website at smuckers.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the website.
If you have any follow-up questions or comments after today's call please contact me or Mark Belgya.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Sonal and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on this call.
I also look forward to seeing most of you next week at CAGNY.
We entered the important holiday season positioned for growth in many of our categories and are pleased with the continued momentum that we've seen in our company.
We've -- our proven strategy of generating growth through brand building innovation acquisitions and productivity initiatives allowed us to deliver another quarter of sales gains and strong earnings growth.
Let me summarize some of the key highlights of the quarter.
Net sales increased 6% led by our strategic growth drivers of acquisitions and product innovation.
Looking briefly at our 3 segments.
Coffee volume increased slightly in the quarter due to the strong performance of K-Cups.
The Cafe Bustelo and Pilon brands also achieved double-digit growth during the quarter.
And Folgers was modestly impacted by the canister constraint we discussed last quarter.
Consumer Foods net sales were up 4% as a result of increases for this Jif and the Smucker brands.
Overall reported volume declined slightly but was up 1% excluding the impact of the cake downsizing and some planned rationalization.
Finally our International Foodservice and Natural Foods segment achieved significant sales growth reflecting a full quarter's contribution from last year's foodservice coffee acquisition.
In addition continued growth in natural beverages and a favorable sales mix also contributed to their results.
Non-GAAP earnings per share grew 20% driven by 3 main factors: first a substantial increase in coffee segment profit reflecting the timing of lower commodity cost; second profit growth across the International Foodservice and Natural Food segment and the impact of the share repurchases over the last 12 months; lastly cash from operations continued to be strong in the quarter and increased to $684 million from the first 9 months of the year an increase of 46%.
During the third quarter we completed our important Fall Bake and Holiday period.
With a combination of solid merchandising programs and pricing insights gained from last year's holiday season we are pleased with the execution of our promotional strategies.
And while certain categories performed better than others we were encouraged by the results and view the holiday period as a success.
As we look ahead we are cautiously optimistic as to the economic environment.
We are encouraged by stronger food and beverage industry demand including total edible volume trends as measured by SymphonyIRI.
These have improved sequentially from the 52- to the 12- to the 4-week period.
We have seen a similar pattern with our consumer takeaway trends improving over these same periods.
We are further encouraged by our ongoing investments in our brands and our businesses.
We expect to introduce approximately 19 new products this year.
Our New Orleans coffee supply chain initiatives were completed this quarter and our food spread product -- project remains on track and on budget.
We look forward to sharing many of the details with you including several new product launches planned for this year when we present at the CAGNY conference next week.
In summary we had a record performance in our third quarter and our year-to-date results.
This reflects a continued commitment to our long-term strategy of strengthening our leading food brands and our ability to execute.
We believe that we are well positioned as we look ahead.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Vince for an update on our business segments.
Thank you Richard and good morning everyone.
Let me begin by reinforcing that our momentum through the first 9 months of the fiscal year reflects the ongoing commitment to the 5 key areas we outlined at the outset of the year which include further building our brands through increased marketing support and innovation executing pricing leadership continuing to optimize our supply chain capitalizing on our recent acquisitions and focusing on sustainability.
With that let me provide further commentary on the performance of our 3 business segments.
I'll start with the U.S.
Retail Coffee segment where volume was up 1% for the third quarter.
As we discussed on the last call the supplier-driven constraints for the coffee canister were expected to have a modest impact on third quarter volume for the Folgers' Red Can business.
This scenario played out as expected as our coffee volume was negatively impacted by approximately 1 to 2 percentage points primarily in our opening price point line.
Overall our team did a tremendous job strategically managed demand based on product availability and minimizing customer disruption and the total financial impact on the company.
Given these challenges we were encouraged by our roast and ground results for the quarter.
Our most recent 4-week share market within mainstream segment is also encouraging gaining 2 share points.
We are pleased to report that the canister issue is now behind us enabling us to build inventories to more desirable levels to support the business.
Our K-Cup business delivered another strong quarter with sales up $30 million over last year's third quarter an increase of 50%.
The growth rates for this business remain significant but as expected are moderating from the percentages realized earlier in the year.
For the full year we continue to expect K-Cup sales will approach $300 million an increase of almost 70% over fiscal 2012.
Turning to our other key coffee brands Cafe Bustelo and Pilon both achieved double-digit volume growth in the quarter continuing their strong performance from the first half of the year.
Dunkin' Donuts volume declined slightly in the quarter reflecting increased competitive activities.
However we remain pleased with the brand's performance with volume up 6% year-to-date.
Coffee segment profit increased 27% for the quarter primarily due to the timing of lower recognized green coffee costs.
Keep in mind we took a price decrease in May ahead of anticipated lower green costs.
The majority of these lower costs were recognized during the third quarter and in part offset the unfavorable impact from earlier in the year.
While this resulted in fluctuations on our profit between quarters the price-to-cost relationship through the first 9 months of the fiscal year was essentially neutral on the coffee segment profits.
As we look ahead considering the decline in green coffee costs in our current cost outlook we expect to take additional pricing decline in the near future.
We will issue a press release announcing any coffee pricing actions once effective.
Turning to Consumer Foods.
Peanut butter and food spreads both had solid quarters in volume for the Jif brand increasing 17% and Smucker's food spreads up 9%.
You may recall that last year's third quarter peanut butter volume was negatively impacted by the significant level of consumer volume that occurred during the second quarter in advance of a 30% price increase.
On a year-to-date basis Jif volume is up 5% despite these elevated prices reflecting the resiliency of the category.
Last month we implemented a 10% price decline on the majority of our peanut butter products.
As previously discussed we are covered by longer term contracts for peanuts.
Therefore elevated peanut costs were recognized in the third quarter and are expected to continue in the fourth.
Although price decreases were passed along in advance of recognized lower peanut cost we believe our actions appropriately reflect our role as the category leader.
As we move into fiscal 2014 we believe this price decline achieves our price-to objective based upon our anticipated cost structure over the course of the fiscal year.
Turning to the Smucker's brand as previewed last quarter we have taken a variety of actions to address price gaps on shelf for our food spread business.
These include price declines on selected items and increased promotional activities.
These price adjustments appear to be achieving their intended results as volume for Smucker's food spread was up 9% in the quarter.
In addition Smucker's Uncrustables achieved another strong quarter with volume up 38% supported by distribution gains and product introductions.
In the bake aisle volume for our Crisco brand was up slightly for the quarter.
As anticipated we saw a solid holiday performance at a number of key retailers helping offset the impact of not participating in the bake center of our largest customer.
Finally Pillsbury brand volume was down compared to a strong third quarter in the prior year.
As expected part of the decline is due to the ongoing effect of our cake mix downsizing as well as a change in our promotional strategy we employed.
Both impacted year-over-year volume comparisons for our cake mixes but continued to improve the overall profitability of this business.
Let me now turn to International Foodservice and Natural Foods segment.
Much of the net sales increase in the quarter was attributed to the nearly $60 million of incremental sales associated with the foodservice acquisition which lapped in early January.
We remain pleased with the performance of the liquid coffee concentrate business as we enter the second year of ownership.
We are executing on our plan to exit the private label roast and ground portion of the acquired business and anticipate this process will be virtually completed by the middle of next fiscal year.
Overall the acquisition has delivered better-than-planned segment profit for the first 3 quarters of 2013.
Excluding the impacts of the acquired business net sales and segment profit were up for the segment as the base business also performed well during the third quarter.
While overall volume was down this was primarily driven by a decrease in our Canadian flour brands.
Our coffee business in Canada continued its growth behind the strong performance of K-Cups.
The combination of these 2 factors provided a significant sales mix benefit for this segment in the quarter.
Finally natural beverage achieved double-digit volume growth for the quarter continuing their momentum from the first half of the year.
In summary as we enter the final quarter of the fiscal year we are encouraged by the performance of our business and remain confident in delivering another year of growth.
We continue to make great progress on our key initiatives and believe this positions the company for long-term growth.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mark to discuss our consolidated financial results.
Thank you Vince.
Net sales increased $92 million or 6% in the third quarter primarily driven by the 2 months' additional contribution of the foodservice coffee business acquired last January.
Sales mix continued to be favorable in the quarter reflecting volume growth in K-Cups and peanut butter.
This helped to offset slightly lower overall volume and net pricing.
GAAP earnings per share were $1.42 this quarter and $1.03 in the third quarter of last year.
Special project costs as defined in our press release and reflected in GAAP earnings once again declined on a year-over-year basis as the underlying restructuring activities wind down.
Excluding these costs earnings per share were $1.47 this quarter and $1.22 in last year's third quarter an increase of 20%.
Operating income excluding special project cost increased $33 million or 14% for the quarter reflecting a $59 million increase in gross profit.
Overall commodity costs were lower in the current quarter compared to the prior year as declines in green coffee were only partially offset by higher cost for peanuts.
In addition the profit contribution from the acquired foodservice business and mix contributed to the increase in gross profit.
SD&amp;A expenses were up 12% in the quarter.
This reflects higher G&amp;A expenses primarily driven by increased incentive compensation and employee benefit costs.
Marketing expense was also up in the quarter.
For the full year we now expect a low double-digit increase in marketing expense.
While lower than our initial estimate we remain comfortable with this level of spending as we have consistently been on air supporting our key brands with TV advertising and continue to increase our digital marketing activities.
The effective income tax rate was 34.1% in the third quarter bringing the rate for the first 9 months to 33.8%.
We now anticipate the full year effective tax rate will approximate 34%.
Turning to cash flow.
Cash provided by operations was $324 million in the third quarter bringing the full year total to $684 million.
This compares to $469 million through the first 9 months of last year.
The increase reflects the higher current year income and a net decrease in working capital among other factors.
Capital expenditures were $48 million in the quarter for a year-to-date total of $147 million.
We now expect a full year spend of approximately $205 million to $215 million.
Let me conclude by updating our full year net sales and EPS outlook for 2013.
We now anticipate annual net sales to increase over 6% compared to 2012.
Volume for the fourth quarter's expected to be flat with the prior year.
Additionally any impact of anticipated pricing actions for coffee are factored into this guidance.
We are bringing up the bottom end of our previous guidance range for non-GAAP income per diluted share and now expect it to be in a range of $5.17 to $5.22.
We're cautiously optimistic in achieving the high end of this range.
Our guidance is based on approximately 109.2 million weighted average shares outstanding for the purpose of calculating annual EPS.
No shares were repurchased during the quarter and as such the number of current shares outstanding remain at 108.5 million.
Last month our board increased the company's share repurchase authorization by 5 million common shares bringing the total currently authorized to approximately 6.9 million.
And lastly with 9 months behind us we continue to project free cash flow will exceed $650 million for the full year.
In closing let me reiterate that we are pleased with our performance through the 9 months of 2013 which reflects our focus on the 5 key priorities Vince spoke to earlier.
We would like to thank all our employees for their dedicated efforts as we track towards delivering a record year of sales and earnings.
With that we will open up the calls to your questions.
Operator please queue up the first question.
[Operator Instructions] For our first question we go to Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question Vince you talked about the 1% to 2% hit kind of in line with what you thought on Folgers.
Folgers is a very profitable business for you but you said that I guess the team kind of somehow managed that.
So are you saying that profitability wasn't limited at all by the fact that you had a 1% to 2% volume hit on that entry level Folgers? Eric this is Vince and that's correct.
And I would also say that there was some compensation from our supplier that helped to offset that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So they gave you some compensation for the fact that they weren't delivering on target? That's true yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I didn't hear you mention as part of the coffee profitability the productivity initiatives and what's been going on in New Orleans.
Maybe you could -- was there anything there? And how do we think about the savings coming from that piece and how it impacts the coffee line going forward? Sure Eric.
This is Mark Smucker.
The supply chain optimization project in coffee is essentially complete.
And the savings that we expected to realize we have realized and we are basically through that project.
Eric this is Mark Belgya just to add to that.
We have not defined of the total $70 million that we've assigned to the overall restructuring no we've not went in to how much is coffee how much is food spreads.
But as Mark suggested most of the savings have come through for coffee.
There probably a little bit of a spillover but most of those will be realized by year's end.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question I'll pass it on.
Richard I guess we've heard from 2 companies now in the industry Kraft really early this morning about some inventory -- trade inventory issues and de-loading and McCormick they're a little more specialized obviously but they also talked about it.
You didn't mention it at all.
Are you seeing anything from retailers maybe in categories that you're not in? Or are your categories just somehow performing better in terms of consumption so the retailers didn't need to cut back? Maybe you could just help frame that a little bit for us.
Yes sure.
Eric this is Richard.
Your answer was really right.
We haven't seen it in our categories this year.
We actually saw it the prior year but not this year in the categories that we're in.
Now I'm not -- I can't speak to their categories maybe the retailers have some de-loading on their categories but we did not see it this year.
And our next question comes from Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask about the Dunkin' Donuts brand.
Obviously the volumes were down 2% this quarter.
Are you seeing increased competition in the premium end of the roast and ground space how's the shelf space and distribution developing on that brand? And yes maybe some comments around that.
Sure Alexia.
This is Mark Smucker.
Yes I would say generally the category is very competitive right now.
And we are again competing in all tiers of that segment if you will.
We are of course pleased with the results that we've seen for the year.
And I think as both Richard and Vince mentioned in the formal remarks we're encouraged by the latest 4-week trends.
Obviously it's only 4 weeks but we're encouraged to see that some of that consumer takeaway is picking up a little bit and so we believe that that bodes well for the Dunkin' brand.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then maybe as a follow-up there wasn't much mention in the press release around what's going on with Crisco.
I was just curious about where that is in the input cost cycle and how that's developing.
Alexia this is Paul Wagstaff and we had a decent Fall Bake for Crisco.
We were not participating in one of our key retailers our largest key retailer in the Fall Bake.
But that being said we were able to grow the business by 1%.
So we feel it's pretty decent.
And our next question will come from Ed Aaron with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I want to ask about K-Cups sounds like you're kind of outlook hasn't really changed at all but just didn't have a little bit of time to assess changes in the competitive landscape.
And I'm wondering if it's all played out kind of right as you expected or if there have been sort of any surprises in kind of what you've seen from your competitive set there so far.
This is Mark Smucker again.
I would say it's played out generally as we expected.
We talked in the last couple of quarters about the deceleration of the growth and that has been more or less as we've expected.
As you can imagine there are more players in the category than there were say 1 quarter ago.
And -- but really we've held our share.
If you look at our dollar share on K-Cup versus the prior quarter although we may be down slightly on the year-over-year versus the prior quarter we're actually up slightly.
So bottom line we're very pleased with the -- with our results there.
And we think that the category is still trying to settle out in how that will affect the total business going forward.
This is Vince.
I guess I would add a couple of points.
First of all specifically it is playing out.
There have been some quality-related issues with the unlicensed participants that probably are affecting those results.
And then I think the other thing we need to keep in mind is as the stores continue to expand their shelf space obviously we hope that we're growing the overall pie but I think there will also be a continual shift of how much of those K-Cups are purchased through what we would call traditional retail channels.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just a quick follow-up for Mark.
The corporate G&amp;A number this quarter was a little kind of higher than where it's generally running and where I was expecting.
Was there anything sort of unusual or nonrecurring that might have played into that? Yes.
This is Mark.
Yes.
The most specific item was -- and we -- it was in my comments it was around incentive compensation.
As you know our original guidance this year we had it $5 to $5.10 and of course we've taken it up for a second time.
So we're running ahead of where we expected.
Conversely last year it was sort of the opposite situation.
So that range of adjustment to incentive-based compensation was the primary driver.
LLC Research Division</strong> And so just to be clear there was basically a true-up from -- relative to kind of Q1 and Q2 where you had to catch up on your accruals? That's exactly right.
Next we go to Farha Aslam with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> My question is regarding your commentary that volume trends in grocery and your business have been improving and particularly last 4 weeks were strong.
What do you think is driving that? Is that consumer confidence? Your ability to offer better value to consumers with commodities coming down? Could you just give us more color? And is there something that you've noticed that's particularly stronger in your business versus the overall industry? This is Richard.
A couple of things.
One is we are actually seeing the consumer being a little more confident and therefore spending a little more.
If you look at the actual numbers for the last 4 weeks the industry was up about 2.8% in tonnage which is one of the biggest increases we've seen in a 4-week period.
And we're trending that way also.
Also our pricing actions.
Last year we thought some of our pricing points were not where they should be versus our competition and we did a lot to adjust that in the last 12 months or so and that has certainly helped our volume.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as my follow-up we've seen a lot of M&amp;A happen in the industry over the last few weeks.
Could you just comment on what you're seeing in the M&amp;A picture? Have you seen kind of brand opportunities come to market recently? Well this is Richard again.
We -- I can't say we have seen brand opportunities come to market in the last few weeks but certainly there is more activity in almost every industry.
You look at the low cost of interest today people could go out and borrow really low rates and put that money to work.
So we're going to -- we're expecting to see more M&amp;A activity.
We think that's positive for us because that helps us -- has helped shake brands loose when those transactions take place.
So we see that as a positive for our long-term acquisition strategy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as one addendum to that.
At kind of the pricing you're seeing are you -- with the funding cost we've seen sort of an inflation of multiples are you comfortable with the multiples things you're trading at? You have an amazing balance sheet.
So we're just trying to figure out your kind of efforts to put your cash to work.
Farha this is Mark Belgya.
We've talked historically for transactions sort of that 7 to 10 8 to 10 times EBITDA.
Obviously some of the transactions that have occurred recently in the food spaces run north of that.
I think it just reinforces the importance of strong brands.
So I think you have followed us a while and understand our diligence as we look at brands and we still think that's a reasonable range.
We'll continue to challenge ourselves particularly when we're looking at strong brands.
But we realize that right now you're seeing some higher multiples and that may play out.
But we still -- I think as Richard mentioned we're still very comfortable with our acquisition strategy long-term.
And for our next question we go to Ann Gurkin of Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> I want to follow along that same line of discussion.
And I'm curious if you're still reviewing products lines in your portfolio for potential disposal.
This is Richard again.
We always look at that although right now we're pretty comfortable with the categories that we have and the brands that we have.
That doesn't mean we'll never make a transaction if it makes sense.
But right now we feel pretty comfortable.
We'd rather add than detract from our brands.
So hopefully we'd have an acquisition sooner than we'd have a divestiture.
LLC Research Division</strong> Perfect perfect.
And then I don't know if you care to comment at all where you've had a change in ownership in the peanut butter category and are there any implications? You certainly have the dominant share any strategy change we should look for or any comments at all on peanut butter? Ann this is Paul Wagstaff.
And no I don't think there's any strategy change from our perspective we respect Hormel very much.
They seem to be a very good manager of brands and we would hope to see that continue.
So we feel no change in our strategy.
And our next question comes from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So first question just on your guidance for the fourth quarter implies a deceleration and growth across-the-board.
So what -- can you just help me understand like what's happening sequentially that makes EPS growth slowdown from the level that we've seen so far this year especially the last 2 quarters? And similarly I mean what -- why should margins not continue to go up especially given what we're seeing on the commodity side on coffee and peanuts? I'm just -- I know there's probably some level of conservatism which you usually always have.
But I'm trying to understand I mean you're making a lot of positive comments but fourth quarter guidance seems obviously relative to consensus below what we were expecting.
Yes.
Akshay this is Mark Belgya.
A couple of things.
First of all I think we have -- the last couple of quarters we've been pretty specific in our discussions around where we are in terms of the long-term peanut costs so we think that that will have some effect in the fourth quarter.
Overall commodity costs of coffee are stabilizing as well.
We still expect a very strong gross profit margin percent but we see those 2 things sort of affecting the gross profit side of things.
In terms of the SD&amp;A I think as Ed and I mentioned earlier on the call the dollars were up in absolute measures for the quarter.
That level of spending for the most part is a bit of a fixed overhead amount.
So because the fourth quarter top line is a smaller dollar amount versus the second and third quarter SD&amp;A as a percent will be up as well.
So -- and then the tax rate of course we're expecting to be a little higher and sort of below the line.
So in summary I'd say it's just 3 or 4 things that are probably driving our guidance.
So Rich I don't know if you have any...
The only thing I'll add is that the third quarter was an easier comparison than the last year's fourth quarter which is a very strong quarter so you have that to consider also.
But basically the fundamentals of the business the trends are very good.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And just to follow-up on coffee sort of a bigger picture question.
Being the largest coffee company obviously in the U.S.
I'm curious to know how do you think the category is going to shape up maybe a year or 2 down the road from perspective of the mix of the shelf.
So I believe 2 years ago at CAGNY you had put out 2 charts that I thought were interesting saying roast and ground roughly 47% of the category premium 31% and single serve 22%.
And clearly your -- you are way more indexed towards roast and ground with 66% of your sales I believe coming from that particular category.
That's changed but I'm curious to know how you think of it a few years down the road.
Like where do you think the premium and single serve end of the category will be in terms of percentage of total pie? Okay.
Akshay this is Mark Smucker.
I think you'll see next week at CAGNY we'll comment a little bit more on this.
But generally speaking premium is growing as of course K-Cup is growing and mainstream will probably have modest declines going forward.
But our goal of course is to continue to play in those segments.
And if a segment is experiencing a modest decline we want to make sure that we are holding or growing our share.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up on the single serve side.
We've stocked [ph] -- and you've mentioned the quality issues today one of the major brands that was supposed to compete with Folgers has come into the market.
I mean can you just characterize what you're seeing in terms of the pricing in the single serve category specifically? I mean what are you seeing -- there is some promotional activity right now and what is your expectation going forward? This is Vince.
I think it's playing out as exactly as we had anticipated.
There are basically 3 tiers of pricing.
And we sit in the middle of those tiers.
And we're -- the unlicensed participants are about where we expected them to be.
So it'll ultimately probably be a 3-tier pricing category.
We'll go now to Chris Growe with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of questions for you if I could just to follow up on one earlier.
I want to be clear on the sales growth guidance.
It sounds like you're incorporating some potential moves in coffee and I think the sales growth guidance is a little below where you had it last quarter.
Should we assume that just based -- was if anything based on this quarter or is it more based on what you see in the fourth quarter that led to that slight decline? Well I think it's basically the effect of potential pricing it's the biggest play on that.
We mentioned also that volume is going to be flat year-over-year which I think might be down just a bit from what we directed on the previous quarter.
And then we're going to continue our exit of the private label roast and ground so a combination of all 3 of those.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I have further question for you in -- with regard to your price mix in the quarter.
I guess really I'm trying to break those apart.
U.S.
pricing down in the quarter I would bet across your business.
Mix it looks likes it was pretty positive and then I'm curious about promotional spending as well and how that fared in the second quarter -- third quarter sorry.
Well Chris what I'd say is that pricing was basically down 1 point mix was up plus 4% acquisition would be plus 4% and then volume was down 1% that's how we would get to the 6% growth.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then promotional spending then is that expected to stay higher? And I guess in relation to that with your advertising forecast for the year a little below what you expected earlier is that getting pushed in the promotion? I'm just curious how those 2 are playing together.
Well the promotional spending I don't think is significantly different to what we were expecting.
I think just to be clear we talk about promotions as sort of trade spend versus marketing.
And then just on marketing even though we are projecting sort of low double-digit versus the 20% for the year we do think marketing will be up for the company in the fourth quarter pretty significantly.
We'll move now to Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
Most of my questions have been answered but I was wondering if you could just talk about foodservice specifically within that international and foodservice segment how volumes are trending there and how the consumer's behaving there.
It sounds like you got a little life at food-at-home but let's talk a little bit about "food away from home" from your perspective.
Sure Chuck.
Steve Oakland.
There's a lot of moving parts in our foodservice business.
As you know we doubled the size of that business with the Sara Lee coffee acquisition and then we took on some pieces of the business that we knew we wouldn't have for the long-term.
So let me give it to you sort of by business.
We're very encouraged by the liquid coffee business and we've yet to be able to do what we think we can do this year with our brands with our technology and our agreement with Douwe Egberts.
So we think although roast although it's up year-to-date we think it can get better than that as we go forward.
So that's great.
When it comes to traditional foodservice that business is soft in volume just marginally.
And if we think about the core casual dining customers the places where our brands really work well I think we've seen their macro numbers off 1% or 2% and our business would mirror those industry trends.
So we feel like we're holding or gaining share.
Our margins are doing well and we're doing at least as well as the industry.
And then the coffee will be the platform that we'll grow off of into the future.
For our next question we move to Jonathan Feeney of Janney.
Research Division</strong> Just one question.
You've given the strengths particularly -- you had some significant improvement in operating profit a huge growth in one of your businesses why the decision to shoot a little bit lower? I mean great in marketing spending great growth year-over-year but it seems like you changed the plan a little bit.
Is that -- you just don't think it's as effective or what's behind that? I'll start and then anyone jump in please.
I think as I said in my prepared comments we put 20% out at the beginning of the year and that was based upon the Sara Lee obviously incremental base growth on our marketing and then the reclassification of what was treated the [ph] last year back into marketing.
And as we went through the year we're quite pleased with our on-air activity all our brands are being supported.
Obviously as you go through things some of it is just due to efficient spending quite honestly and we'd bee able to recognize that through the year.
But if anyone else wants to comment on the quality and the amount we're on-air but we feel pretty good about it.
Research Division</strong> I guess just following up I always kind of wondered about this isn't more better? Or do you -- I mean if you -- I guess couldn't you do just that much more if you've been more efficient? Or do you reach a point I guess in the saturation curve where you just make a judgment that says "Hey we don't want to spend anymore right now like just how it lines up with innovation " or isn't that right? So this is Vince.
So I would comment that philosophically we believe that we have to be the supporter of our brands and the categories.
And you know we've talked historically about we have a greater share of our voice in most cases than our share of market.
So we support our brands in those categories for the long-term.
We just think that's the right thing to do.
Now in any one quarter or any one fiscal year the presidents all have levers that they can pull if they need to be sharper on price points or not necessarily.
And so we at time to time can shift funds from marketing to trade if need be but that's not the case.
And as you look at the entire year where our marketing investments are going to go up.
But we haven't reached a point of saturation if that's your question.
If you reach a point of we're out of any TV commercials we obviously produce more and continue to support those brands.
We'll go now to David Driscoll of Citi.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just to talk about K-Cups for a few minutes.
The first observation I would make is that you guys deserve certainly congratulations.
By our data it appears that you have 9 of the top 20 SKUs within the K-Cup market in groceries so terrific job.
My question really is a longer term question.
I sometimes feel like these earnings calls and I'm probably guilty of this myself may be a little too short-term-oriented.
I'd really like to go against that right now and say long-term is this K-Cup opportunity just an enormous opportunity I think you said this is a $300 million business.
In within say a 5-year window what do you think this is? Is this a $1 billion business? I mean could this be fundamentally someone's entire investment thesis on Smucker's given the rate of growth and the profitability of that particular market? David this is Mark Smucker.
We do think it's -- there's significant growth potential in K-Cup.
It's -- we believe that it's here to stay.
We think Green Mountain has done a great job with the system.
I probably wouldn't give a longer term number but I do think that we continue to see significant upside.
Even as we're seeing the growth decelerate we still think with new entrants whether they are licensed or unlicensed that is going to grow the category.
And we just need to make sure that we continue to as we grow the pie that we continue to maintain or grow our share of it.
Research Division</strong> Can you comment on the margin structure of this as related to your overall coffee operation? I believe that you were showing incredible gains within coffee it stands to reason that this is margin accretive to your coffee margins.
Is that correct? I think we've said in the past and it still holds true that the margins in K-Cups are more or less in line with our total coffee business.
And our goal again is to continue to grow profit dollars not necessarily margin.
Research Division</strong> Well maybe my final question on this then is can you just talk about then the factors that caused such an enormous improvement within the coffee margins? From a modeling point of view these giant changes are reasonably tough to deal with accurately.
So can you guys help us out a little bit understand the changes that contribute to the margin improvement? Yes.
I think in the script we talked a little bit about just the timing recall of our price decline in the beginning of the year was ahead of the moderating green coffee costs.
So it really is timing-related as we realized coffee cost versus what our pricing is in the market.
Research Division</strong> So that factor trumps the K-Cup issue is that what you're saying? Yes.
This is Mark Belgya David.
Yes that's right.
I mean obviously with -- K-Cups contributed an incremental $30 million you can do the math on the contribution.
But the cost or price -- the cost and price to position to that probably was the bigger contributor.
We take our next question from Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Yes Richard as you -- you guys tend to think of things in a bit of a longer term time frame.
This question I'd be curious on your perspective on it.
From an industry standpoint we've -- are you surprised that maybe some of these kind of 100-year-old-plus companies are for lack of a better term kind of throwing in the towel if you will in making these large strategic changes whether it's splitting up or Heinz selling itself yesterday sort of doing that when the going gets a little tough on the fundamentals rather than maybe taking numbers down making the proper investment and running these businesses for the longer term? Or has something so fundamentally changed in your view in this broader packaged food space that these more radical structural changes are really needed? I'm curious in your perspective because you've got obviously a longer-term perspective to draw from.
Well that's a very good question Andrew.
And as you know our history and our heritage -- and we do take a long-term view.
And we think that's right for our industry.
We think it's right for the economy.
But that being considered we live in a changing world and a dynamic market which there's a lot more emphasis on short-term goals and short-term structures.
That's why we always talk about why it's more important to think to the long-term because you can make a quick hit on return but -- for one quarter but we think for example at Smucker's if you hold a share of Smucker's stock for 5 years you're going to make much more money on Smucker's over the long-term than if you just took a premium on a very short period of time.
So we think the industry is changing.
We think the dynamics are changing.
But we also think that our strategy of taking a long-term view at Smucker's and using this is an opportunity to take advantage of this change in the marketplace we will see some brands come to the market because of these changes and we think that bodes well for our company.
So we're going to continue to do what we're doing.
If you look at our returns over -- since we went public some 55 years ago I think our average return's 11% over that period of time and that's true whether you look at a 5- 10- 15- 20- 25-year period of time.
So we would rather see a long-term growth rate of 11% a year than get a quick hit for 20% in 1 quarter.
Next we move to John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just with peanut butter.
Just wondering what you're seeing there in terms of the price competition and I guess in particular as it relates to your decision to maybe take prices down there ahead of the cost improvement.
John this is Paul Wagstaff.
And when we -- we see ourselves -- we're the leader in the peanut butter category and we felt that taking the 10% price decline which we did effective January 7 was the right time to do that for the category and to continue to see the growth that we are experiencing.
So we felt it was the right appropriate time.
Our competition did follow which made sense and we typically do lead pricing increases or declines.
So overall we feel it was the right thing to do right timing and we feel positioned well for ongoing growth.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just a follow-up in canned milk can you walk through the performance there? The drop in sales in the quarter and maybe you were thinking about pricing elasticity going forward maybe in light of the dairy inflation.
Yes.
John again Paul here.
Our canned milk business we had a little bit of a struggle overall for the Fall Bake time period.
Some of that is due to the fact that we aren't seeing as much of the baking that's taking place with canned milk.
That being said we have done some things on the pricing side to get a little more competitive with our competition that we've seen and we are very well aware of the high dairy cost.
We don't see the dairy cost coming down anytime soon or at least significantly anytime soon.
So that will be something we'll be working on into next year.
Now we take a question from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I apologize in advance if some of these have already been asked but you guys mentioned the de-stocking effect from last year that you aren't seeing recur this year.
Are you seeing any year-on-year benefit as you lap that de-stock? That -- it's Richard.
Not significantly because I think everybody has tried to take their inventory levels down and keep them at that lower level.
So it's not like they took them down the prior year and then all of a sudden went up 10% this year.
They took them down and they kept them at those levels.
So but we haven't seen another leveling effect.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
One more if I can.
Peanut butter the price/cost mismatch that's resulting from your price reduction ahead of the cost relief is that something we should expect to continue until next year's fall harvest? Yes.
Jason Paul here.
We have -- again I think the answer is yes.
We will be -- where we are priced to now really ties in with where our cost in peanuts are and that will go into next fiscal year.
Research Division</strong> So your price there's not really a mismatch.
You're priced kind of in line with your cost and then after this 10% reduction? It will be.
Going forward it will be.
That's correct.
We've leaned into it a little bit but going forward into next fiscal year we are aligned -- our pricing will be aligned with our cost.
We now take a question from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I share Jason's sentiment that if this has been asked forgive me.
But your numbers on the volume mix side were kind of meaningfully better than what Nielsen data would've suggested.
And I know that Nielsen doesn't represent all of your channels and there's timing issues and so forth.
And also I didn't realize that your volume number is a volume mix number.
But do you think at all that you shipped ahead of consumption even slightly this quarter? I know it's again hard for you to tell but I'm just curious based on your conversations with retailers and inventory levels and so forth do you think your shipments were more or less in line with takeaway this period? Ken this is Vince.
We do not believe so.
Research Division</strong> You think they were in line? We think they were in line and we saw better consumption than last year's third quarter when you look at sort of our key brands and products.
And it's back to some of our better pricing and narrowing price gaps.
But no we would not say that those are out of line during the quarter.
Ken this is Mark.
Just to clarify a point in your question I think you said the mix volume was combined.
It's not actually.
Mix was actually a plus 4 and volume was down negative 1.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a separate question.
Can you remind us -- there's been a lot of talk in the last 24 hours obviously about companies getting purchased in the food space.
Can you remind us what percent of votes not voting stock but actual votes insiders would hold in the event that a potential acquirer was looking at Smucker? This is Richard.
We really don't disclose that.
All that I say is it's a significant amount.
Yes.
Ken this is Mark.
We really don't disclose it for a reason.
It's just because of the time-phase nature of it it's not something that is readily known at any given time.
So thus we don't like to speculate on it.
Research Division</strong> Is it fair to say it's over 50% at any time as a percent of the total votes? Well we really don't comment on it but...
And that concludes our question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the conference call back over to Mr.
Richard Smucker for closing remarks.
Well want to thank everybody for being on the call today.
We feel good about our results and more -- even better about our future and look forward to seeing everybody next week at CAGNY.
Ladies and gentlemen if you wish to access the rebroadcast after this live call you may do so by dialing 1 (888) 203-1112 or 1 (719) 457-0820 with the passcode of 8394093.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to The J.
M.
Smucker Company's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that the conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference over to Sonal Robinson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
On the call with me are: Richard Smucker Chief Executive Officer; Vince Byrd President and Chief Operating Officer; Mark Belgya Chief Financial Officer; Steve Oakland President International Foodservice and Natural Foods; Mark Smucker President U.S.
Retail Coffee; and Paul Smucker Wagstaff President U.S.
Retail Consumer Foods.
Following this introduction Richard will provide an update of fiscal 2013 and initial thoughts as we head into 2014.
Vince will then provide an update on our business segments and Mark will close with additional comments on our financial results for the quarter and our outlook for 2014.
Before I turn the call over to Richard let me remind you that we may make forward-looking statements during this call that reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates and actual results may differ materially due to risks and uncertainties.
I encourage you to read the full disclosure statement in the press release concerning forward-looking statements.
Additionally please note the company uses non-GAAP results for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.
Discussion on non-GAAP information is detailed in our press release located on our website at www.smuckers.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the website.
If you have any follow-up questions or comments after today's call please contact me or Mark Belgya.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Sonal.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
This morning we reported strong fourth-quarter results that capped off another year of growth.
We are pleased with our fiscal 2013 performance as we delivered record sales earnings and cash flow while continuing to return cash to our shareholders.
Vince and Mark will cover specifics of the quarter.
So let me highlight a few of our many accomplishments during the past fiscal year.
Net sales increased 7% to nearly $5.9 billion for the year reflecting solid growth across our key categories and brands.
In the coffee segment volume for the Folgers and Dunkin' Donuts brands were up 3% and 11% respectively while Cafe Bustelo and the Pilon brands both achieved mid-teen percentage growth.
In addition K-Cups continued their strong performance contributing nearly $290 million of the segment's net sales.
Within Consumer Foods volume for the Jif brand grew 8% while Smucker's Uncrustables increased 23%.
Innovation from Pillsbury continued to strengthen that brand's overall positioning.
Finally our fiscal 2012 foodservice acquisition accounted for a significant portion of the sales growth within the International Foodservice and Natural Food segment.
Our Canadian and Natural Foods businesses also posted solid results for the year.
Non-GAAP earnings per share were $5.37 an increase of 14% with profit growth coming from all 3 segments.
We also achieved another year of strong cash performance.
Cash from operations increased 17% to over $850 million for the year with free cash flow increasing over 40% to approximately $650 million.
Other key initiatives in fiscal 2013 included the launch of 70 new items including new varieties of K-Cups in both the U.S.
and Canadian businesses and our Hazelnut Jif brand also Smucker's Natural Foods brands and several new flavors of Pillsbury mixes and frostings.
In addition we increased marketing by 10% including the production of 25 new television commercials and the expansion of our digital marketing activities which now represents over 15% of U.S.
retail marketing spend.
This along with ongoing support of our customers through our category and leadership programs also contributed to the strong 2013 results.
Operationally we completed the $70 million expansion of our 2 coffee facilities in New Orleans and we commenced the fruit spreads operation at our new manufacturing plant in Orrville Ohio.
With 80% of the anticipated volume currently being produced at the new facility the transition is expected to be completed by the end of the calendar year.
Finally while investing in the long-term growth of our business we also demonstrated our commitment to enhancing shareholder value by repurchasing nearly 4% of our shares utilizing approximately $360 million in cash.
This includes 2 million shares repurchased during the fourth quarter.
And we increased our annual dividend by approximately 9% continuing our steady history of dividend growth.
We are proud of our team's accomplishments over this past year.
With these results our 5-year compounded annual growth rates of 18% per sales and 11% for earnings per share exceeded our long-term growth targets of 6% and 8% plus respectively.
This performance is a testament to our long-term focus as well as the hard work of our dedicated employees.
And we thank them for their continued efforts.
As we turn our attention to the new fiscal year we are excited about our initiatives and plans many of which are built on recent investments that we have made to grow the business.
These 2014 initiatives include the launch of approximately 100 new items crossing all key brands and categories.
At the same time we project another increase in marketing support including new advertising and digital investments.
Recently we announced our sponsorship of the 2014 and 2016 U.S.
Olympics and Paralympics teams and we are proud to play a part in supporting these talented athletes.
Related initiatives will span TV advertising retailer and consumer promotions product packaging and digital support behind our participating brands of Folgers Jif Smucker's and Uncrustables.
At CAGNY we discussed our ongoing focus on growing these same key brands.
With the coffee supply chain project complete and the food spreads activities concluding in the coming months we have initiated capital projects to provide capacity necessary to support the additional growth opportunities of our Jif and Uncrustable brands.
This includes expanding our nut butter supply chain footprint including converting our Memphis fruit spreads plant into a peanut butter facility.
In addition we are progressing on capacity expansion initiatives at our Uncrustable facility.
In 2014 we expect to complete the installation of an additional sandwich line.
This comes on the heels of recently doubling our bread baking capacity.
And finally our expectations for continued growth and the ability to generate significant free cash flow provides flexibility to support our cash deployment strategy be it acquisitions or returning cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
In a few minutes Mark will share the details on our outlook for fiscal 2014.
As we look ahead we are excited about the new year and remain confident in our long-term strategy the strength of our leading brands and our employees' ability to execute with the operational excellence that the marketplace and our customers have continued to expect from Smucker's.
With that I'll turn the call over to Vince for an update on our business segments.
Thank you Richard.
Good morning everyone.
As we began fiscal 2013 we outlined several key areas of focus in response to a challenging economy volatility in the commodity markets and increased competition.
These included furthering our brand-building efforts demonstrating price leadership continuing to optimize our supply chain and acquisition integration.
The results we achieved for the year including a strong fourth quarter validate our commitment to these priorities.
Of particular note is our ongoing focus on innovations as products launched during the past 3 years represented $530 million of fiscal 2013 net sales.
In addition share of market remain strong across our businesses with increased dollar share in most of our key categories for the latest 12-week IRI scan period.
Let me now provide some color on each segment's results and highlight upcoming initiatives as we look to carry this momentum into 2014.
Starting with U.S.
Retail Coffee segment.
Our fourth quarter performance was very strong with volume up 6% and profit growth of 18%.
Moderating green coffee cost provided the opportunity to lower prices during the year.
These pricing actions along with our brand-building initiatives contributed to the segment achieving year-over-year volume growth in each quarter of 2013 resulting in a 4% volume increase for the full year.
Ultimately volume growth along with the continued benefits of profitable mix and restructuring savings helped deliver 12% segment profit growth in 2013.
Keep in mind because we took pricing down earlier in the fiscal year before recognizing lower cost our profit was back half-loaded.
Despite the timing impacts this may have quarter-to-quarter we continue to manage the price-to-cost relationship over a longer period.
And on a full year basis the net impact did not significantly contribute to segment profit growth.
Looking at the key coffee categories we are pleased with the ongoing growth of our K-Cup business.
Sales increased 18% in the fourth quarter resulting in full year sales of nearly $290 million.
While as expected the growth rate has slowed we remain bullish on K-Cups.
New users continue to enter the category and our relationship with Green Mountain Coffee remains strong.
This year we will launch 2 new varieties and we project net sales for our K-Cups to grow approximately 15% in 2014.
Our premium coffee business also delivered a strong fourth quarter with volume of Dunkin' Donuts up 29% reflecting a softer comp in the prior year our emphasis on better managing price gaps and our marketing support.
In addition our relaunched Folgers Gourmet Selections bagged coffee performed well with 10% volume growth in the quarter.
In 2014 we'll expand our offerings in the premium coffee by launching Dunkin' Donuts bakery series along with our new 100% UTZ Certified line under the Life is good brand.
Consumer preference in the premium coffee continues to shift away from the bulk segment.
Accordingly we have decided to exit our bulk coffee business by the end of the fiscal year.
In 2013 this business which is primarily sold under the Millstone brand provided $25 million in sales and did not significantly impact segment profit.
However we remain committed to the Millstone brand and will continue to support the Millstone K-Cups and bagged coffee business.
In mainstream coffee we are encouraged by the results for the quarter.
Volume for Folgers roast and ground grew 4% benefiting from recent pricing actions and brand support.
We are also pleased to note that Folgers has been named Coffee Brand of the Year in the 2013 Harris Poll rankings.
This award speaks to the ongoing strength and relevance of the iconic Folgers brand.
Similar to coffee the Consumer Foods segment achieved solid volume growth in the quarter up 4% over the prior year.
Although segment profit declined in the fourth quarter it was up 6% for the full year.
Looking at our key categories.
Volume performance was led by peanut butter reflecting 17% volume growth for the Jif brand.
As noted in our release the prior year volume was challenged due to a 30% price increase earlier in fiscal 2012.
As previously discussed a 10% price decline was taken in January in advance of lower recognized peanut costs.
While our cost decreased somewhat in the quarter the net impact of price-to-cost was unfavorable to segment profit growth and more than offset the favorable amount realized earlier in the year.
We expect peanut cost will show a more pronounced decline as we proceed to the back half of this fiscal year.
Also within peanut butter last month we began to downsize our core 18-ounce Jif item to 16 ounces consistent with the other offerings in the space.
In addition we passed through a price decline that reflects the downside anticipating an improvement in the competitive positioning of the brand.
Continuing our efforts to extend the Jif brand we will also look forward to the upcoming launch of several new and exciting products including Jif Whips along with Jif Almond and Cashew Butter.
Fruit spreads achieved a second consecutive quarter of solid volume growth including the contribution from our recently announced Smucker's natural fruit spreads offering.
Our actions taken earlier in the year to narrow price gaps contributed to these results.
Supported by the expected incremental restructuring savings related to the new Orrville facility we took additional price declines on selected fruit spreads effective late April averaging approximately 11%.
Our Smucker's Uncrustables offering in this segment also achieved another strong quarter with volume up 22%.
And we look for this momentum to carry into 2014.
Combined with spreads our overall PB&amp;J business is well positioned for the upcoming back-to-school promotional period.
In the baking aisle the launch of 6 new summer seasonal items contributed to strong fourth quarter performance of our Pillsbury business.
Volume was up 5% despite the effect of the previously discussed cake mix downsizing as well as a change in our promotional strategy on cake.
While both impacted year-over-year volume these actions continued to improve the profitability of the Pillsbury business.
Let me conclude my remarks for the overall U.S.
retail business by reinforcing we are pleased with the fourth quarter performance.
Combined Coffee and Consumer Food segments delivered the highest year-over-year volume growth in the last 15 quarters.
Let me now turn to International Foodservice and Natural Food segment where net sales decreased 9% in the fourth quarter.
This decline was due in part to the initial impacts of exiting both the private label roast and ground coffee business acquired in last year's foodservice transaction as well as a portion of the school foodservice business.
Expanding on the coffee rationalization volume has been impacted by the loss of the business for other related beverages due to the bundled nature of certain contracts and relationships.
While we anticipate losing a portion of the more profitable business in the transaction the extent is somewhat greater than initially projected and we now estimate a modestly higher impact on sales and profit from this exit.
We expect to complete the rationalization of the private label coffee and Uncrustables by the third quarter of fiscal 2014.
Recognizing these changes we remain pleased with the performance of our core liquid coffee component of the acquisition.
This summer we'll be launching Folgers liquid coffee in the foodservice channel.
As a brand the consumers know and trust we look forward to the growth opportunities this provides.
The scale this acquisition created for our foodservice business provided an opportunity to enter a new multiyear licensing and distribution agreement with Cumberland Packing Corporation.
Next month we'll begin marketing and distributing Cumberland's branded tabletop sweeteners including Sweet'N Low and Sugar In The Raw in the foodservice channel in the U.S.
and in the retail and foodservice channels in Canada.
These products will serve as a complement to our foodservice beverage business while also expanding our tabletop presence.
The remaining portions of this segment delivered a solid 2013.
On a full year basis the majority of our categories in Canada achieved volume sales and market share growth with particularly strong contributions from the coffee business including our K-Cup offerings.
Finally our natural foods category realized a strong fourth quarter.
This caps off another year of solid growth as consumer interest in the natural and organic food space remains strong.
Overall for this segment with the expected contributions from the new products and increased marketing support in 2014 the businesses remain well positioned.
Looking back over the past year we are pleased with the progress on the key focus areas I outlined earlier.
Building on this momentum we are excited about the investments innovation and other brand-building initiatives planned for 2014 especially our sponsorship of the U.S.
Olympic teams.
I will now turn the call over to Mark to discuss our consolidated results for the fourth quarter and to provide details on our outlook for 2014.
Thank you Vince and good morning everyone.
Let me begin with a few comments on fourth quarter results.
Net sales decreased $16 million or 1% reflecting a 5% impact of lower net price realization primarily driven by price declines taken in coffee and peanut butter.
A 2% increase in volume and a favorable sales mix helped to mostly offset the price impact.
Non-GAAP earnings per share exceeded the high end of our implied fourth quarter guidance range by 13%.
This outperformance is attributable to several factors notably stronger-than-expected volume across our U.S.
retail business favorable absorption of manufacturing overhead a lower-than-projected tax rate and the purchase of shares under our buyback program.
GAAP earnings per share were $1.22 this quarter and $0.93 in the fourth quarter of last year.
Special project cost as defined in our press release continued to decline on a year-over-year basis as the underlying activities wind down.
Also last year's fourth quarter included a significant portion of the merger integration costs associated with the foodservice acquisition.
Excluding special project costs earnings per share were $1.29 this quarter and $1.10 last year an increase of 17%.
Operating income excluding special project cost was up 5% reflecting a mix- and volume-driven increase in gross profit.
The favorable impact of lower manufacturing overhead caused by decreased costs and higher production volume also contributed to the higher gross profit.
SD&amp;A expenses increased 9% for the quarter resulting from a 17% increase in marketing along with higher G&amp;A expenses that reflect incentive compensation cost adjusting up.
The income tax rate was 32.1% in the quarter which was below our expectations with lower state income taxes being the largest contributor to the decline.
This compares to a 36.5% rate in the prior year's fourth quarter.
For the full year the tax rate decreased from 34.4% in 2012 to 33.4%.
Cash provided by operations was $172 million in the quarter.
And this brings the full year total to $856 million compared to $731 million last year.
The increase primarily reflects the higher current year income and a net decrease in cash used for working capital.
Capital expenditures were $60 million in the quarter and $207 million for the full year.
This resulted in 2013 free cash flow of $649 million.
Let me conclude our formal comments by providing sales earnings and cash flow guidance for 2014.
As noted in this morning's release we expect non-GAAP income per share in the range of $5.65 to $5.75 compared to $5.37 this past year.
This range assumes weighted average shares of 106.5 million.
Excluding amortization expense of nearly $100 million or $0.62 per share the corresponding guidance would be $6.27 to $6.37.
Much of the year-over-year EPS increase is expected to come in the back half of 2014.
Net sales are anticipated to be comparable to this past year.
On the plus side mix should remain favorable driven by coffee and peanut butter in the U.S.
retail segments.
In addition the new Cumberland distribution agreement is expected to add $35 million of sales all in International Foodservice and Natural Foods segment.
Offsetting these factors is the full year impact of price declines taken in 2013.
We anticipate the overall volume to be flat.
The U.S.
retail segments are expected to increase approximately 2% but the International Foodservice and Natural Foods segment will be down reflecting the incremental impact of the business rationalizations.
Combined these reductions are expected to have a high single-digit percent impact on net sales for the International Foodservice and Natural Foods segment.
Including these reductions the segment volume would be up modestly.
The net impact of lower commodity cost within our basket of goods will be favorable to COGS in 2014.
Lower costs are expected for coffee peanuts and sweeteners.
The flour and milk cost is projected to be slightly higher.
Favorable mix is also expected to contribute to gross profit growth.
Including the effect of pricing actions taken to date we expect an increase of approximately 200 basis points in gross margin excluding special project costs with contributions coming from all 3 segments.
Incremental supply chain savings of approximately $15 million are anticipated as the projects are expected to deliver nearly $60 million in run rate savings for 2014.
This is slightly ahead of our previous projections reflecting higher-than-estimated savings realized in 2013.
A majority of this year's incremental savings are being generated from our new Orrville facility.
And as Vince noted we plan to reinvest these savings in our Smucker's fruit spread business in part through the April price reductions and increased marketing.
Overall SD&amp;A expenses are expected to increase approximately 8% over 2013.
This includes an increase in marketing of 10% along with costs associated with a significant information systems upgrade and other corporate initiatives.
We expect much of the gross profit gains will lead to year-over-year increases in the coffee and International Foodservice and Natural Foods segments.
We expect Consumer Foods segment profit to be comparable to fiscal 2013 due mostly to increased marketing and distribution costs.
Further it should be noted that while peanut costs will be lower versus the prior year the cost-price relationship will negatively impact margins in the first half of the year.
Below operating income net interest expense of nearly $93 million is projected including interest associated with anticipated borrowings on our revolver.
Tax rate of 33.5% comparable to this past year is our current assumption.
Turning to cash flow.
Capital expenditures of $270 million are planned with $45 million related to restructuring projects including our peanut butter footprint expansion.
The increase in CapEx over 2013 reflects these investments to support the future growth of peanut butter as well as our Uncrustables business.
Also this year construction will commence on a new innovation center located on our Orrville campus.
That will enhance our ability to collaborate with customers once completed in fiscal 2015.
Special project costs of just over $30 million or $0.20 per share are expected with most having a cash impact.
The remaining noncash charges primarily represent accelerated depreciation.
Excluding special project costs depreciation and amortization expenses should approximate $245 million.
When factoring all of these in free cash flow of $600 million is expected assuming a slight reduction in the use of cash for working capital.
While free cash flow is expected to be down from the prior year we remain on track to achieve our $850 million free cash flow target for fiscal 2017.
And finally we felt it was important to point out a couple of key factors related to the first quarter.
Last year's results included $20 million in favorable unrealized mark-to-market adjustments and significant timing-related effects from the price-to-cost relationships which negatively impacted coffee and favorably impacted Consumer Foods.
Taking these into consideration and also factoring in our commentary for this year the current estimate for our first quarter 2014 reported non-GAAP EPS is expected to be comparable with the prior year's first quarter.
As I stated earlier we expect much of our reported non-GAAP EPS growth will occur in the back half of the year.
In closing let me reiterate how pleased we are with this past year's performance with record levels of sales earnings and cash flow.
We would like to thank our constituents for their continued support and we look forward to another successful year.
With that we will open the call up to your questions.
Operator can you please queue up the first question? [Operator Instructions] Our first question will go to Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned in the press release that for the year prices were down more than the benefit from lower input cost.
I'm assuming this is primarily because of a mismatch between price and cost in peanut butter and that price and cost were more aligned or even maybe a net positive specifically for coffee in the year.
Is that a fair statement? Andrew yes.
Andrew this is Mark Belgya.
That's exactly correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you talked about over last couple of quarters some of the pricing actions that you were taking for various different reasons in some of the businesses.
And it certainly seems like the volume response anyway that you're getting would be one that sort of bears out the reason for having done some of that.
So as you go into '14 what's the thinking around some of those activities around either promotional price points and things where you made some tactical decisions? Do you keep going with those? Do you expand maybe the scope of some of that given you got more reasonable input cost flexibility just because you're seeing the -- certainly the positive impact on volume? Andrew this is Vince.
I think overall as a category -- or categorically we would say yes.
We'll continue to emphasize managing our price gaps.
It obviously takes into account our position on the commodity in question.
But yes we will continue that activity.
And Andrew this is Richard.
And that being said as you know we don't just sell on price.
And so we're very price-sensitive to not give promotions that are unreasonable.
Yes.
I think it's more -- let me just expand.
I think it's more about applying the learnings that we have on our pricing gaps and our elasticities that we were doing a better job of managing.
We'll go next to Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question on the Pillsbury business is it something in the competitive set that's making you I guess as you put it materially change your promotional strategy there? Eric it's Paul Wagstaff.
Actually when we look at the overall Pillsbury business in the baking aisle we felt that the change in promotional strategy was driven by not so much competitive but what we felt would be an opportunity to improve margins overall and still take some of those margins and reinvest in innovation which we've been able to do and grow that business pretty significantly.
So we think it's a right strategy and so far it's been working.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess on the foodservice coffee the liquid part of it can you just -- you've had the business for a little over a year I guess or close to it and you're finally going to be scaling back to that core business.
Maybe you could just kind of give a bit of detail on how big the business is today and how big you think it can be and what -- how far you're willing to go in terms of being a let's say like a distributor which I guess is kind of what this Cumberland business what that is for you.
Eric Steve Oakland.
Let me take you through a couple of pieces of that.
As you know when we finally closed the Sara Lee deal we ended up with a lot of noise in that business and this private label volume and the customer relationships.
And so yes that's been frustrating to get that all right and get through that.
But behind that the liquid coffee business the core liquid coffee business both in United States Canada and Mexico has grown during that period.
And it's grown with the Douwe Egberts brand on it.
And although well recognizing the great brand in much of Europe and other parts of the world it is unrecognized in North America.
So we're very excited about putting the Folgers brand on it.
And that allows us to take that product the high-volume coffee outlets where it will be front-of-house where the consumer will see the piece of equipment.
So we think that opens up a whole new realm of opportunities for us.
So that will happen in the next month or so but we'll start shipping that product.
And the response to date has been great so excited about that.
Number two the Cumberland arrangement.
And I think if we step back and look at what we did to foodservice we did the foodservice what we did to the Smucker Company years ago with the Jif and Crisco opportunity.
We really increased our scale and our relevance to the customer.
So being in the coffee business it's a key category to every foodservice operator.
And so you take out all of the noise we've done we created a direct sales opportunity.
We have national sales and service so we've got much deeper coverage.
So things like the Cumberland quite frankly is the first benefit you'll see of that new scale.
Cumberland came to us.
They're a wonderful family company.
It's probably more of a sales and marketing agreement.
We think it will have good margins long-term for both parties.
And what's more closely aligned to us in tabletop Sugar In The Raw tabletop Sweet'N Low.
And they've got a great new product line that we think we can take to market over time.
So we're excited about that.
And that's a first look at the benefit of Sara Lee on the foodservice business.
Let me add.
This is Mark Belgya.
When we announced the deal and I know over the last couple of quarters we've talked about the dollar impact on the sale side of exiting the portions of the business that we did not want to keep.
And that number's kind of have been between $75 million and $100 million.
It's probably closer to $110 million.
And most of that will come through this year primarily through the first 3 quarters.
It's probably about $75 million to $80 million would be the current year impact.
Eric this is Vince.
Let me just expand on Paul's answer relative to the Pillsbury.
It's a great example of what Richard was speaking to in the first question.
We actually reduced our trade spend because of learnings that we had relative to our frequency and depth.
And even though it affected some of our share it was a conscious decision because it improved our bottom line and allows us to invest back in the brand.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess on the -- just last question on the guidance and the waiting.
How much of it Mark would you say is due to the timing in peanut butter and costs and the roll-off of the inventory I guess versus the exiting of the rest of this Sara Lee stuff and ramping up of Cumberland et cetera? Like how do we -- like bucket-wise the guidance the waiting and the difference between $5.65 versus $5.75 on the earnings? Yes.
I guess what I would say Eric is that it clearly is heavily impacted by the cost of the peanuts.
We will certainly move into lower-cost peanuts as we progress through the year [indiscernible] compared to the price decline we took.
So that is going to be a heavy back end.
In terms of the exited business in foodservice that's a little bit more radically over to Q2 and Q3.
And we'll go next to Farha Aslam with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question is on volume.
It clearly outperformed your expectations during the current quarter.
If you had to kind of parse out the reasons for that outperformance versus your expectations do you think it was easy comps? Do you think it's your marketing programs and promotional programs? Or do you think it's the consumer is just getting more comfortable with the prices on the shelf now? Farha this is Paul.
I'll start Mark and then you can go.
On some of the categories like peanut butter for example we got pricing back in line to what made sense with the consumer.
And clearly we saw significant increase.
Jif was up 17% for the quarter so that was good.
When you look at our frosting business we were up 17%.
That was also driven by a couple of factors the new product launches that have done very well and we're very pleased with that and some of the promotional dialogue that we talked about earlier.
Fruit spreads was also up 4% and we have taken some pricing action on that as well as launching some new items.
So I think it's a combination of pricing new products and getting back in line from a price point perspective on shelf.
And Farha this is Mark Smucker.
Just on coffee I think it's basically everything that Paul just said.
I mean we did of course have a bit of a soft comp coming off of the last -- the prior Q4.
But given all of our consumer and customer support given the excellent pricing management that we had and just getting our absolute prices as well as those gaps right we really saw good momentum.
And I will daresay that that momentum in the latest 4 looks to be continuing.
So not only were our shipments good but also the consumer pull-through seems to be good as well.
I'll just add to that.
This is Paul again.
I'd say the same thing on momentum.
Our momentum looks like it's continuing through this next quarter so we're in really good shape.
Yes Farha.
This is Richard.
If I had to put a percentage on it I'd say that probably 80% of the actions that we've taken internally and 20% results of consumers feeling a little more confident.
But it was more I think what we're doing.
And we do see the consumer being a little more confident.
But that's the smaller portion of it to.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then my second question is on your cost savings effort.
You saved $90 million this year.
Could you share with us what your run rate is for next year any new initiative? And more particularly your thoughts in how much you longer-term think you'll reinvest back into your business versus just sort of allow to fall to the bottom line? Just your thinking on how you think about those cost savings.
Farha this is Mark Belgya.
Maybe if you wouldn't mind just for clarification I think you said $90 million.
I'm not quite sure we're that -- Research Division</strong> I'm sorry.
Was that your cost savings actions? Did I get the $90 million wrong? What did you save in terms of cost savings for 2013 and what do you expect for 2014 from those pricing actions? Okay thank you yes.
Around our supply chain initiatives? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
What we said is that on a full year run rate basis we're now up to $60 million.
You'll recall when we announced this a few years ago we said that that total would be $70 million.
So we'll hit that $70 million fully in fiscal '15 and that really comes once the Orrville plan is all online and everything's in transition.
And this year we did take the opportunity -- we'll be taking the opportunity to take those incremental savings that sort of first batch of savings if you will from Orrville and putting that back into the fruit spreads.
That was part of our intention all along.
I think we've said that some of that savings overall from our projects would flow through the bottom line but we would also take the opportunity to reinvest.
And specifically as it's related to fruit spreads on price shelfing particularly with private label had widened a bit more than we like.
So -- and we see this as a great opportunity to take those first batch of savings and put that back against the pricing.
There will be more next year.
If all goes well hopefully that will be more directed towards the bottom line.
But we'll wait to see how that plays out.
This is Richard.
I just want to compliment our team in case any of them are listening.
They did a wonderful job of building this $150 million plant to give us even better quality than we've ever had and started it up on a very rapid basis and we've been able to produce product at better quality at lower cost.
So it was a great combination.
The team did a wonderful job on that.
And we'll take our next question from Chris Growe with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just want to ask you first of all on the coffee division.
You've had 2 really solid quarters in part its comparisons to the prior year.
But we've had a persistent decline in the underlying input the green coffee costs.
So my question is as you go into early -- to fiscal '14 it would seem like that benefits should continue to accrue to the company.
I know you've taken a pricing decline but the decline in input cost looks like it's even more dramatic than that.
Would you expect that pricing versus cost deflation benefit to continue into the first quarter? I know you've called for overall flat EPS.
But that division particularly will that see a benefit? This is Mark Smucker Chris.
Yes I think -- a couple of comments.
First of all as you recall obviously we buy both robusta and arabica.
And so robusta price have been firm.
Arabica has seen a -- what I would call a consistently gradual decline.
And as you know when we priced for that in February we did reflect some of that.
And so it is -- there are a combination of factors and as we go forward and look into the next couple of quarters we will take a pricing action when our cost and position dictate that we do that.
So we keep an eye on it.
But again I guess I would just emphasize it's not just arabica.
There are other factors in the prices of the instruments that we trade.
Chris it's Mark Belgya.
Just to add in I think just to underscore a comment that I had in my scripted remarks is that last year's first quarter in coffee too we sort of led with price a little advance the declining coffee.
So last year's profitability was I'd call it a bit of a softer comp as well.
So the combination of 2 will affect the Q1 of '14.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But it also reiterates in a kind of -- a bit to the question that I think Eric answered -- asked earlier about basically trying to keep the pressure on the -- if you get pricing to match cost deflation in this case and trying to keep that volume momentum that seems to be the underlying theme here though.
Is that correct in the coffee division? Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one quick follow-up and that would be that you've called out another pretty solid increase in marketing for the year.
I know it was -- the increase was pretty -- it was strong in fiscal '13 little less the initially anticipated because of some shift to promotion.
So I just want to understand that kind of how you look at promotion in fiscal '14 in relation to that pretty solid marketing increase.
Is there any kind of reversal there or how do those 2 interplay in fiscal '14? Chris Paul Wagstaff here.
A couple of things we're doing on marketing side obviously it's the Olympics is impacting our increase in spending.
Again we're very excited about the opportunity.
And I know on the consumer side it's the Jif it's the Uncrustables and the Smucker's brand and it's in Folgers in coffee.
And then also we have -- we're launching 58 new items I know on the consumer food side and so our marketing is increasing because of that investment spending.
Chris this is Vince Byrd.
Let me just say that the trade spend is one area that we obviously compose a lever versus our other marketing elements and so we clearly are pleased that we increased the marketing in '13.
Our plan is to increase marketing in '14.
Trade spend will ebb and flow a little bit depending upon again our pricing position of our commodities and where we need to be competitive in the marketplace.
So it will -- it'll increase or decrease depending upon where we are our position of our raw materials as well as competitive activity.
And we'll go next to Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can I just follow up on Chris's question about marketing spending? A couple of questions linked to that.
Can you quantify roughly how much marketing expenditure is expected to increase in fiscal '14? And then on the quarter how much is marketing spending in coffee up? Alexia this is Mark Belgya.
For the fiscal '14 round numbers is that 10% increase will equate to about $0.20 of EPS.
And then I think again this is sort of broad brush probably about half of that would be more Olympics related as part of Olympics.
In terms of the coffee we don't really give increases other than I can say it's significant increase in marketing in Q4.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then a quick follow-up your share repurchases have obviously driven a nice bump to the EPS growth in fiscal '14.
Your cash flow is moderating slightly this year but would you expect uses of cash to be broadly the same in fiscal '14 as you've seen this year? Yes.
I don't see a significant change in our assumptions around cash deployment.
Now of course the question will be if that's the case then why are the shares right now basically unchanged for the year.
That's pretty much the approach we take when we plan.
We don't assume buyback because you buy it on day one of the year and has a completely different impact if you buy it on the last day of the year.
But just from an actual use of cash it still plays a very big part of our deployment.
And we'll take our next question from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You're guiding to if my math is right 5% to 7% EPS growth next year.
That's below your long-term guidance and the only time you've been that low since you bought coffee was 2012 when coffee costs were spiking pretty hard right.
So now you have coffee going the other way.
I know you mentioned robusta not being down as much.
But I'm looking at the futures in Bloomberg.
It looks like robusta's pretty straight line down over the last few months.
So I'm just curious if you can highlight some of the strongest headwinds you see into '14 that are going to offset the benefits of those lower bean costs.
And I realize you've outlined some of these right.
I'm just hoping to kind of pick your brain about how we may weigh some of them more heavily than others if we can.
Yes I think -- Ken this Mark Belgya again.
Just to talk to some of the major drivers obviously I just mentioned the marketing impact which 10% is -- although we did it last year I wouldn't it's the normal amount of marketing support.
So you can pick whatever you think the right number is and take that EPS impact.
I think also on some of the exited business between the Uncrustables the out of school that we're exiting consciously as well as the private label coffee and the affiliated items around that that also had -- if you total all together it's probably another $0.05 to $0.10 which I'm guessing you may not have factored in.
So those really are 2 key drivers of maybe what the expectations were versus where our guidance range is directing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question I realize you previously guided to a decline at some point but your prior guidance implied around $300 million in K-Cup sales for the year.
You came in about $10 million below that.
So can you help us understand what happened this quarter that maybe you didn't anticipate? And I guess as a corollary to that your K-Cup growth was lower this quarter than what Nielsen might have forecast as well.
So I'm hoping to get some color from you whether this was an issue of measured versus non-measured channels or more about the timing of shipments.
Ken this is Mark Smucker.
I think generally K-Cup's ended up pretty much where we thought they were going to end up.
I think the guidance that we gave were almost spot on.
And it is -- it does go back to what -- we talked about the law of large numbers and as things grow you're going to see this percent decline decrease.
Having said that if we're talking about a 15% growth for the coming year it's still double digits.
We still feel very good about that and it actually is generally in line with what our #1 partner has guided to as well I think in their most recent call.
So we still feel optimistic.
We've got some new products coming out in K-Cups this year and so we still feel good about our opportunities there.
Research Division</strong> But for 6 straight quarters your incremental sales from K-Cups were at least $30 million and they suddenly dropped to $11 million.
I guess I'm curious that's not a law of large numbers.
That's a pretty sudden drop.
What was -- what really did you see this quarter? Was it competitive activity? Was it the category declining? What did you see that drove the quickness of that drop I guess is what I'm going for? Well Ken this is Vince.
Again I would go back to Mark's initial comment is we're still on a pretty significant steep ramp up.
The other thing of course is we have a number of unlicensed participants that are getting trial during -- over the last 3 to 6 months and so that obviously has an impact on the category.
If you look at the Nielsen or IRI data you will see how much those unlicensed participants have affected the category.
So again I would go back to what Mark said to build a $290 million business in a short period of time we are very very pleased with.
And we'll take our next question from Jonathan Feeney with Janney.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the cash flow both the timing over the course of the year and I apologize if I've missed this but you talked about $600 million for next year.
This year you got some -- about $40 million it seems out of working capital and you made a $40 million pension contribution.
Could you talk about maybe working capital and pension for next year in the context of your $600 million guidance? Sure.
In terms of the pension we would not have that kind of contribution this year.
That was to help support some of the things that we had done around some lump sum payouts that will return to a much lower amount in '14.
I guess my primary comment Jon would be around working capital.
We still feel -- and this is not just a '14 comment this is probably a more longer-term comment that we still can drive that number down.
So we've assumed -- we look at it as a percent of revenues.
So we think we can take it down another point which would be about a $50 million reduction.
So we've got that roughly built into our '14 estimates.
Now -- and you may have missed this so I apologize if you've heard this.
But in terms of just a year-over-year decline from the $650 million to $600 million that really is driven by the capital expenditure increase.
We're going from $207 million this year to $270 million next year.
So -- and as we've said as we move out towards 2017 we've got a couple of years of high amount.
And we really think that at least most of the major capital expenditures will be behind us and we'll see that taper down a bit.
And that should help us deliver that $850 million that we've been talking about.
Research Division</strong> So if you hit your target on working capital reduction I could do this math but -- I mean about roughly how much money would that be? Well it'd be 1% of sales so roughly $50 million to $60 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And D&amp;A somewhere around $260 million? It was $260 million last year? Yes $250 million to $260 million.
That would include special project.
I think without it I think I said that was $245 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So -- but I guess if I put all those things together I would get to a number a little higher than $600 million x the pension piece.
So I -- it's just that you're being kind of conservative there or...
Yes.
I mean obviously it's early yet.
The key about working capital as you know it all kind of contingent on where you sit on April 30.
So our best guess would put it there and hopefully we're a little conservative.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And just one other question is -- both the peanut butter and the coffee category have -- necessarily due to some of your commodity price corrections are going through some price reductions.
And these things do tend to kind of take on a life of their own sometimes.
Sometimes it works and price stabilizes other times it really changes the competitive dynamic quite a bit.
Have -- what -- in both of those categories have declines in price been stimulative to volume? Have they brought volume back to the category you think just that specifically? And I know there's a lot of other things going on.
And is it playing out competitively the way that you would have thought it would the way you were planning for as far as it could be measured with price reductions and managing -- and gross profit? Jonathan this is Mark Smucker.
I think generally the answer to your question is yes.
We have seen it played out more or less as expected.
In terms of coffee declines and the pricing actions we've taken in some cases we've actually seen some of the competitors lag in taking a price decline.
So we are seeing a bit of compression there.
But overall yes I think it has helped volume.
And as you know there has -- there continue to be some speculation in the marketplace.
It sort of messes with the fundamentals.
But overall I think you're generally correct.
Jonathan Paul.
On the peanut butter side I agree with Mark.
It's similar situation.
We feel that -- obviously the pricing action has definitely stimulated the volume growth not only for us but for the category and we'd anticipate that continuing.
Jonathan this is Richard.
I just want -- an overall comment on pricing and how we look at it.
We -- our strategy is to own the #1 brands and because of that we do have some pricing flexibility both up and down.
And -- but the key is responsible pricing.
We want the pricing -- again we don't just compete upon pricing.
So we want responsible pricing.
We don't want to be in a position where we're driving the market down and we're very sensitive to that.
We don't see that happening.
And all the categories that we currently are in have been pretty stable categories in terms of not getting into pricing wars and so that's always been our leadership position.
And I guess one more thing Richard just to add is -- in coffee what we did see if you recall when prices were really high consumers started to trade down to more opening price points.
And so now we're actually seeing that like we've always said it's a smoothing of the hourglass and consumers coming back to the core brands and the important stuff.
And we'll take our next question from David Driscoll with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask a few coffee questions Mark.
First was the positive sales mix in coffee also positive to coffee margins? Yes it was.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question here can you guys discuss a little bit more the full year coffee profit growth? I guess what I'm trying to do is to break away from kind of some of this quarterly volatility that we see.
I think profits in coffee were up about 12%.
I think volumes on the year were up something like 4% or 4.5%.
But if you could bridge this kind of what are the main factors that are driving the profit growth and noting I did hear your comment that green coffee costs were favorable but I'm kind of hoping you can rank this stuff for us and get me a little bit of a better understanding on the full year coffee profit algorithm? Yes I'd be glad to give.
It's Mark Belgya.
It really -- it falls in 3 primary buckets.
It would be mixed volume and then the cost savings from the restructuring projects as well as just ongoing projects around cost initiatives.
But they're fairly well distributed between the 3 buckets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's true for the full year basis.
And then I thought you said to Andrew Lazar's question that green coffee costs were a positive in 2013.
I thought he was asking the difference between the peanuts and the coffee and I thought you said that coffee was a net favorability.
Not on full year basis.
It's pretty -- it might have been up slightly but it was basically attributed to the other factors that Mark Belgya articulated.
It was just -- it did contribute.
It was just one of probably 5 or 6 components volume mix including a couple of others.
Research Division</strong> Final quick question just back to the cash flow.
So -- just so I understand it's something like $600 million in net income for '14.
D&amp;A what was your guidance for D&amp;A for next year? It's around $250 million.
Plus it depends on how you take into account the amortization of the restricted stock which is about $20 million a year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you said that next year you do expect $50 million of working capital benefits is that right? That's what our targeting is.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then $270 million of CapEx and all these numbers are supposed to come together for something around $600 million? Thereabouts yes.
And we'll take our next question from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just first question on coffee and just the overall category dynamics.
I think you guys are consistently hitting $6.99 the $7 price point on your core offering on ground coffee.
And part of that I guess is being funded by lower coffee cost right.
So can you just talk about the sort of movement in the consumer a little bit more in the coffee aisle? On the one hand clearly you're doing a lot more in the premium side with K-Cups doing really well again and you're launching new products there but it looks like the base business is also starting to come back a little bit.
Can you just help bridge that a little bit give us more color on what's happening what's sustainable? And how much of that movement back to the mainstream is really just related to coffee prices being where they are? Akshay it's Mark Smucker.
Thanks for the question.
First of all just on your first point about promoted pricing we are not at a $6.99 level.
I think the lowest you'd probably see us in market on a -- on deals is about $7.99.
And then secondly to your other questions you're absolutely right.
I mean there -- the migration back to core has been fantastic.
If you look at what we're looking at on our share trends through IRI we are seeing -- despite a very modest decline in the mainstream segment we are growing our business as well as obviously share in that segment.
And then premium it's -- again it's what you said.
We are focusing on premium done good things on Dunkin' from a support perspective as well as getting the pricing right.
FGS is doing well and of course as you know we continue to support our K-Cups.
So -- and then of course even our Hispanic brands are also doing extremely well.
So right now we're feeling very good about all the segments.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on K-Cups and your guidance for '14.
I understand the 15% guidance and we appreciate you being specific.
But when you started this year I think you said strong double digits and then you ended up being up over 60%.
So can you just help us with the moving parts there market growth versus market share and perhaps give us your view on competition? And you talked about -- what I thought was interesting is you said new entrants are getting trial.
But my guess is that what you think or what you're seeing is they're getting trial but the repeat rates might not be as strong.
So any color there will be great.
I'm just trying to understand if you're being conservative with your sort of growth assumption for K-Cups or -- and if that's the case whether it's sort of share related or category related.
Okay sure.
Akshay the -- you're generally -- again I think you're correct is a lot of the assumptions that you voiced.
Frankly the category is going to continue to grow and there are -- as Vince mentioned there's a lot of unlicensed entrants and they are generating trial.
I think it remains to be seen whether or not they continue to generate repeat purchase.
I think we feel very confident that we -- over the longer time the consumer will recognize the relative quality that the licensed entrants provide in their cup of coffee and may migrate back there.
But you're going to see a lot of noise in the category over the next couple of quarters.
I don't believe necessarily -- I think the 15% is accurate.
I think that we're pretty comfortable with that number.
And so again there's been -- although there's been a lot of noise there has been some quality issues with some of the unlicensed entrants and a recall here and there.
So I think that noise will continue but longer term our goal is to grow the business even if we may see some slight share erosion in the coming couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just one last one on -- this is maybe for Mark.
But -- you're increasing marketing support which is great to see.
You're launching more new products and you're having more success with new product launches as well.
At what point -- I mean where are you in that journey of sort of solidifying the organic growth of the company or accelerating rather the organic growth rate of the company? And when might we actually see you guys have the confidence to maybe increase your sort of organic growth targets on operating margin -- or operating income? Akshay this is Mark Belgya.
I'll -- let me start and if anyone wants to jump in please do.
I think that -- we do hear you in terms of organic growth.
We've been pretty consistent over the last several years in terms of our -- particularly our top line growth expectations being split between organic/new products and acquisition.
And we've made a lot of investments.
We clearly have exceeded our 1% new product target.
And I think that the emphasis we've put on particularly at CAGNY where we're talking about Jif and Smucker's growth opportunities handheld right now being Uncrustables I mean just the nature of what we're talking about and where we're investing our dollars would drive more organic-based growth.
So that top line growth clearly the contribution to the profit level should follow.
So I think we've been pretty clear of that.
If everything plays out as we hope over the next couple of years I think you'll see that.
And we'll take our next question from Thilo Wrede with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just had a question on the Sara Lee business and the Cumberland acquisition.
I think you said in your remarks that the negative impact from the discontinuation was higher than you initially expected because there were some bundling effects but then you also said the Cumberland is really the first benefit from the Sara Lee acquisition.
How far along are you on the learning curve of understanding or getting the Sara Lee business to say that you can already get incremental business because of Cumberland? Just trying to understand what incremental opportunities could be from Cumberland.
Thilo it's Steve Oakland.
A couple of things.
The contracts that we're exiting I think the -- what you're seeing in the financial statement I guess does not reflect the quality of the work that's going on in the business.
The teams are in place.
The direct sales forces are in place.
We're working through these contracts.
They're coming off the financials just when the contracts end.
And quite frankly some of those contracts were so good for the customer they haven't been able to replace them.
So that's why they're running them to the very end.
And so that's working its way through.
In the interim our team is -- has been able to add the Cumberland business.
And if you think about a tabletop sweetener business there's very few branded tabletop items let alone those that tie in directly with our coffee business.
So we think there's an opportunity for their current business but also to launch their line of their own natural sweeteners over time.
So that's the first one.
We think there are a number and we don't usually talk about specific opportunities.
But we think there are a number of away-from-home branded businesses that we now have the capacity and the organization to support.
So we're working hard on those.
And like every other business unit acquisition is a key part of our growth and we'll work those as they come available.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Would you make any comments when we should expect to see the first updates what these incremental opportunities could be? In the future.
That's hard to do.
As you know those things are lumpy right and you fish and you fish and then eventually one comes about.
So they're lumpy.
But we're excited about Cumberland.
I think it's a great I think we all know Sugar In The Raw.
We all know Sweet'N Low.
And hot -- being in the hot beverage business having that complement is we think right on strategy.
Yes this is Richard.
Just on the whole Sara Lee acquisition that's been a -- it's really been a great acquisition for us and a great fit with our foodservice business and we feel still -- still feel 100% confident that's going in the right direction.
These are basically in the whole scheme of things small integration issues that you get into occasionally and there are whole economics not that big.
But the strategic reason for buying the Sara Lee business is still there.
The base business is still very strong.
It's given us great credibility in foodservice.
And so we don't want to overemphasize just these small changes on a quarter basis but it's still a very solid acquisition.
We'll take our next question from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> We've been going on in the call for a while.
It's a marathon call.
So just -- I've only got a couple of small housekeeping questions left for you guys.
First question for you Paul the peanut butter cost versus price mismatch I thought you were pretty explicit in the last call saying "Listen this is a fourth quarter question issue.
We get into the next fiscal year and this thing is all trued up." It sounds like that's not the case that we still have a bit of a bleed over to the first half of the mismatch.
Is that right? Am I hearing you correctly? And if so what's changed? Jason Paul here.
Actually I recall in the last quarter that we did mention that it was going to impact for next fiscal year as well.
So actually nothing has changed from our perspective.
We knew there was going to be an impact going into the first half of fiscal '14 which it's still is.
I'd say that the part that we're happy about is that the volume is responding we were hoping it would and we would continue to see that momentum continue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Sounds like it was an interpretation issue on my end then.
And then turning to Mark Smucker one other housekeeping for you.
You mentioned price gaps.
You felt like you were in a good place.
We saw Gevalia announced a price cut in May.
We saw Starbucks and Seattle's Best announced price cuts in May as well.
On the premium bag end do you feel comfortable with your price gaps in the wake of those pricing actions from your competitors? Jason.
Yes actually we do.
And again as I think we've said before we think some of those pricing actions by the competition were lagging ours.
So I think we're still positioned very well.
And we'll take our next question from Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
First question for you Mark would be what kind of tax rate you're looking at in fiscal '14? And with regard to -- I'm just thinking about the low tax rate we saw in the fourth quarter.
I'm guessing that's not indicative of next year or the current fiscal year? Yes that's the lower [ph].
We said Chuck it's 33.5% which is pretty much in line with this year on a full year basis.
Okay.
And in looking at the growth rate of K-Cups 18% in the fourth quarter would you be willing to say what it might be for fiscal '14? Could we see a slower rate than that? For the fiscal year we said 15% for the full '14.
All right.
And in looking at the package gourmet coffee there seems to be a lot of new brands in there.
What is helping Dunkin' Donuts grow so rapidly 29%? Chuck it's Mark Smucker again.
Basically it's what we've been talking just in terms of making sure we've got all the right consumer and customer support as well as getting those -- the pricing the absolute pricing and the gaps just right.
And of course we have a new product line action that we're launching this year Dunkin' bakery series which is not a seasonal item.
It is actually a permanent line and so that will help us.
It's flavored coffee.
It's flavored like basically Dunkin's pastries and doughnuts in their shop and we feel very good that that will add to the growth as well.
And we'll take our next question from Robert Dickerson with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
I guess -- you said I guess for Q1 you expect EPS to basically be flat relative to last year.
Should we be expecting the volumes to now be down in the first half or at least in Q1 just considering the fairly easy comparison we've seen in Q3 and Q4? Rob it's Mark Belgya.
No I wouldn't say that because what you're going to see is the volume -- overall the volume decline is due to the exit of the businesses and that's more of a Q2 and Q3 event as opposed to the first quarter.
So I would not make that statement.
LLC</strong> Okay perfect.
And then also on the K-Cup side I mean there's obviously a lot of questions around the K-Cup business.
If we see this -- we've seen decelerating growth obviously in the category for some time now.
It's still good.
It's still double-digit growth.
But as I said as we think forward really I guess in the first half or into the holiday season and with coffee cost down as much and with increased competition now in the market I mean should there be an expectation that maybe not just for you but that we could -- overall can start to see a bit more price decline in K-Cups? Because you really haven't seen much.
But as you talk about the unlicensed competitors when you think about what's happening on the Kraft side et cetera would you expect more price competition to come over the next 2 quarters? Rob this is Mark Smucker again a little bit.
I mean I think with some of the new entrants we have seen some tiering in -- price tiering in the category.
So you've got at least 3 if not 4 different pricing tiers in the category.
Again I think we go back to just our relative brand strength and quality to continue to drive repeat purchase in our brands as well as some of the license.
So it's typical to what we would see basically in the broader category.
So I think we feel pretty comfortable where we are today.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And then the last question if you actually can comment on this I'm not sure but we heard obviously that Green Mountain and Starbucks that their contract was renewed.
We're not hearing it from you.
I don't mean that that implies anything.
But I am curious like within the given contract are you able to add as many SKUs and as much capacity et cetera as you want or are there restrictions et cetera? Sure.
Two things first of all we don't comment on the specifics of the agreement with Green Mountain but we are adding SKUs.
We're actually launching 2 new items this year.
And as it relates to the other partners that Green Mountain has we feel that we're on a level playing field.
And we'll take our next question from John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> More specifically in terms of the K-Cups there seems to be a little bifurcation here between Folgers where you're still getting some reasonably good growth but Millstone looks increasingly weak calendar year to date.
So just wondering if you can elaborate a little bit on the dynamics for Millstone what can you do to stabilize that brand going forward? Sure.
Again Mark Smucker here John.
Yes we've seen a little bit of softness on Millstone.
Obviously the Folgers brand is doing very well.
I think 2 things I would just say that that -- the softness you've seen right now is probably driven just by again some of that trial that we've seen and the number of entrants in the category.
But I will -- we are very confident that although we're exiting the Millstone bulk business we are going to remain committed to that brand and continue to support it both in the bag format as well as in the K-Cup format.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a follow-up in terms of the Rowland brands.
Those also seem to have slowed a little bit in terms of the roast and ground.
Anything there you can call out maybe consumers trading back to the core with prices coming down? Just elaborating on that and then your thoughts on distribution growth for that portfolio going forward.
Yes.
I think as we go forward we're still very comfortable with that and we're going to continue to drive that.
There is plenty of opportunity for both Bustelo and Pilon to grow the brand with distribution as well as with new consumers.
So I -- we're still very bullish on that.
In the end and as we said -- we've also said we're going to double that business in 5 years and we're on track to do that.
Well thank you very much for your call today.
We appreciate it.
And we have a solid plan in place for next year and look forward to executing it.
So have a great weekend.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen if you would like to access the rebroadcast after this live call you may do so by dialing 1 (888) 203-1112 or 1 (719) 457-0820 with a passcode of 2721955.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to The J.M.
Smucker Company's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference call over to Sonal Robinson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Ms.
Robinson.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our first quarter earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
On the call with me are Richard Smucker Chief Executive Officer; Vince Byrd President and Chief Operating Officer; Mark Belgya Chief Financial Officer; Steve Oakland President International Foodservice and Natural Foods; Mark Smucker President U.S.
Retail Coffee; and Paul Smucker Wagstaff President U.S.
Retail Consumer Foods.
Following this brief introduction Richard will provide an overview of our first quarter performance Vince will then provide an update on our business segments then Mark will close with additional comments on our financial results for the quarter and our outlook for the full year.
Before I turn the call over to Richard let me remind you that we may make forward-looking statements during the call that reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates and actual results may differ materially due to risks and uncertainties.
I encourage you to read the full disclosure statement in the press release concerning forward-looking statements.
Additionally please note the company uses non-GAAP results for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.
Discussion on non-GAAP information is detailed in our press release located on our website at smuckers.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the website.
If you have any follow-up questions or comments after today's call please contact me or Mark Belgya.
Let me now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Sonal.
I really appreciate everybody joining us this morning.
Let me begin by saying that we had a very very good first quarter following the momentum that we gained from last year's results and that resulted in record earnings for our first quarter.
I want to share with you some of the highlights that began the quarter.
Volume was up driven by performance of our U.S.
Retail business.
Net sales decreased slightly due to price declines taken over the past 12 months.
In Coffee volume was up 4% behind solid gains for the Folgers Dunkin' Donuts and Cafe Pilon brands.
Volume gains were also realized across the majority of the brands within Consumer Foods resulting in an overall 4% increase in that segment.
And within the International Foodservice and Natural Foods segment volume was down for the quarter but as expected due to the planned rationalization that Vince will expand on in a moment.
Excluding these volume was flat for the prior year -- for this year compared to the prior year.
Non-GAAP earnings per share increased 6% to $1.24 despite prior year results that included a significant positive impact from mark-to-market adjustments and also higher SD&amp;A expenses in the current year.
And finally we continued the responsible use of our strong cash flow.
During the quarter we announced a 12% increase in the quarterly dividend rate and repurchased 1.5 million shares.
Solid execution of the plans and initiatives that we outlined during our year end call including brand building and supply chain investments contributed to these first quarter results.
Our teams continue to perform with excellence and we thank them for their efforts.
Looking ahead to the upcoming holiday period and the balance of the fiscal year we remain confident in our ability to achieve another year of earnings growth and deliver on the updated earnings guidance that Mark will share with you in a couple of minutes.
This belief is supported by several factors including a solid lineup of quality marketing and merchandising programs across our various brands and categories to support the Fall Bake and Holiday periods the additional growth from innovation and new products lower commodity costs compared with last year and the continued execution of our pricing and promotion strategies and finally the anticipated contribution from acquisitions and new businesses.
To this last point let me briefly comment on the announcement that we released earlier this morning regarding our latest transaction the acquisition of Enray Inc.
This enabling acquisition provides added scale for our Natural Foods business adding an on-trend line of organic gluten-free ancient grain products to our portfolio.
We're very excited to welcome the Enray employees to the Smucker Company and add the truRoots brand to our family of brands.
And we look forward to sharing more about this acquisition in the coming months ahead.
With that I'll turn the call over to Vince for an update on our business segments.
Thank you Richard and good morning everyone.
We are pleased with the start to the new fiscal year as these results reflect our commitment to brand building and other key initiatives we identified leading into the year.
Let me now provide further color on our segments' quarterly performance beginning with U.S.
Retail Coffee.
Volume for the segment was up 4% led by our Folgers Dunkin' and Cafe Pilon brands.
During the quarter Folgers Gourmet Selection K-Cups and premium bagged coffee realized significant volume growth.
In addition momentum in our mainstream Red Can business continued.
Red Can results were driven by growth within our Folgers Colombian product line reflecting the pass-through of lower green coffee costs through our recent pricing actions.
Increased marketing support also contributed to the performance of the Folgers brand.
This included the completion of the third installment of The Best Part of Wakin' Up jingle contest in June.
This very successful event continues to utilize digital platforms to expand the reach of the Folgers brand among millennial consumers.
The Dunkin' Donuts brand also realized a good start to the fiscal year up 6% in volume for the quarter.
This increase was achieved despite a very strong comp in the prior year's first quarter.
Our strong merchandising and pricing strategy combined with ongoing brand support led to the quarter's results.
The overall coffee volume gains in the quarter were a key contributor to the segment profit growth.
In addition our price-to-cost relationship had a significant positive impact on the first quarter results compared to the prior year.
As a reminder the first quarter of 2013 was negatively affected by the price declines taken in advance of lower green coffee costs.
These lower costs were recognized later in 2013 and resulted in strong period-over-period growth during the last half of that fiscal year.
This is in contrast to the front half loaded segment profit growth expected in fiscal 2014.
Keep in mind these price-to-cost timing impacts will continue to periodically affect quarterly year-over-year comparisons.
Our focus remains on managing profitability over the fiscal year and on a long-term basis.
Green coffee costs have retreated from their record highs of 2 years ago and arabica coffee futures have traded in the range of $1.15 to $1.35 over the last several months.
While this has lowered our overall coffee costs at this point they have not declined to the level at which we would implement a list price decline.
Instead we will use other pricing strategies to pass along the benefits of the lower green coffee costs to our customers and consumers.
Let me conclude my comments on coffee with an update on our K-Cup business where sales grew 14% in the first quarter in line with our expectation of 15% growth for the full year.
As expected the K-Cup environment continues to be competitive with new entrants coming into the marketplace and we anticipate they will garner trial of their products during the upcoming key holiday periods.
Let me briefly comment on the relationship with Green Mountain.
We recognize there's been significant press recently regarding their contractual arrangements with other partner brands.
We believe the recent extension of certain partnership agreements supports our view that Green Mountain is the highest quality and most efficient producer of K-Cups in the industry.
Specific to our company we typically do not discuss details related to our contracts.
However let me assure you that we are pleased with our contractual arrangement.
We have a multi-year agreement in place that has been periodically amended to take into consideration current and future opportunities that are expected to provide additional value to both companies as well as to our customers and consumers.
Similar to coffee the Consumer Foods segment achieved solid volume gains in the quarter also up 4% over the prior year with growth realized across most of our key brands and categories.
This volume performance was once again led by peanut butter as the Jif -- momentum for the Jif brand continues.
Our price declines the successful execution of our jar downsizing the contribution of new products and the ongoing brand-building support all contributed to Jif's performance.
Turning to the Smucker's brand.
Volume for food spreads was flat for the quarter.
This reflects a positive response to our Smucker's Natural Fruit Spread launch offset by declines with 1 major club store customer.
Sales of Smucker's Uncrustable in U.S.
retail channel achieved another strong quarter with volume up 22%.
This marks the third quarter in a row where Uncrustables has grown in excess of 20% in this channel.
We are currently in the midst of our key back-to-school promotional period and are encouraged by the programs we have in place and look forward to a successful conclusion to our overall spreads and uncrustable businesses.
Turning to the bake aisle.
Pillsbury volume was up 2% driven by flour and frosting including contributions from the successful launch of our new seasonal varieties.
Profitability for baking mixes continued to improve due to the previously discussed change in our promotional strategy on cake.
In the oils category Crisco achieved a strong start to the fiscal year with volume growth of 11% reversing recent downward performance in this price-sensitive category.
A continued focus on managing price gaps drove the first quarter performance.
Let me conclude my remarks on Consumer Foods with a brief discussion on segment profit which was down 11% from the prior year.
Approximately 1/2 the decline reflects the reduction in favorable mark-to-market gains this quarter compared to the same period last year for this segment.
Much of the remainder was the result of the 10% price decline taken earlier in the calendar year on peanut butter during a period of higher recognized peanut costs.
As we noted on our year-end call we expect this trend to reverse as we proceed through the back half of the fiscal year and this will be a key contributor to the company's earnings growth during that period.
Looking at all the key commodities across our Consumer Foods portfolio we have essentially locked in our cost structure for the upcoming Fall Bake and Holiday season.
At this time we do not foresee taking any action in our key categories through the end of the calendar year.
Further with good merchandising programs in place and solid support at all key retailers we believe we are well positioned for this promotional period.
Let me conclude with the International Foodservice and Natural Foods segment where strategic business decisions designed to align the portfolio for long-term profitability continued to have a significant impact on our reported results.
Volume declined 6% in the quarter primarily reflecting the impact of 3 such decisions.
First and most significantly for the quarter was the planned change of promotional strategy to support our Santa Cruz Organic lemonade product line.
Now that the product has been established within the marketplace we were able to reduce our aggressive promotional activities resulting in reduced volume and yet improves profitability.
Due to the seasonal nature of the lemonade sales the majority of the anticipated volume decrease for the fiscal year occurred in the first quarter.
Second the previously announced exit of the private label coffee business in Foodservice continues to impact our year-over-year volume comparisons and remain on track to complete this rationalization by the end of the calendar year.
Lastly we saw a step-up in the effect from exiting a portion of the school Uncrustables program.
We anticipate the volume impact will increase further in the second quarter given the ordering pattern associated with the start of a new school year.
The impact will then moderate as the year progresses.
Excluding these planned rationalizations volume was flat to the prior year.
Segment profit grew 7% for the quarter reflecting the net benefit of lower commodity costs the enhanced profitability of the Santa Cruz Organic line and favorable mix.
Excluding mark-to-market adjustments segment profit increased $7 million or nearly 20% compared to last year's first quarter.
Lastly as Richard mentioned we are very excited about the enabling acquisition of the Enray business.
As a leader in the natural food space we believe this $45 million on-trend business has the potential to deliver significant growth for the foreseeable future.
In summary we are pleased with our start to 2014 and look to continue this momentum into the rest of the year.
Our consistent performance is a testament to the company's strategy the strength of our leading brands and the commitment of our dedicated employees.
I will now turn the call over to Mark to discuss our consolidated results.
Thank you Vince and good morning everyone.
Net sales decreased $19 million or 1% in the quarter reflecting a 4% reduction in net price realization partially offset by a 1% increase in volume and 2% from sales mix.
GAAP earnings per share were $1.19 this quarter and $1 in the first quarter of last year reflecting a reduction in special project costs which are defined in our press release.
Excluding these costs earnings per share were $1.24 this quarter and $1.17 last year an increase of 6%.
Last year's results included a $20 million benefit from unrealized mark-to-market gains on derivative contracts.
This compares to a $5 million positive contribution this year.
Operating income excluding special project costs was up 1% for the quarter behind a 4% increase in gross profit.
Lower commodity costs this year compared to 2013 caused gross profit to increase by $21 million and gross margin to improve by approximately 200 basis points.
The gain in gross profit was largely offset by an 8% increase in SD&amp;A expenses.
Higher administrative expenses were driven by an increase in compensation costs as well as expenses associated with an upgrade to the company's Oracle IT systems.
This major upgrade was implemented seamlessly by our team during the first quarter.
Marketing was up 6% over last year in line with our quarter expectations.
We continue to expect marketing to be up 10% for the full year with much of the costs related to the Olympics sponsorship occurring in the back half and total SD&amp;A to be up 8% also in line with our original guidance.
Turning to cash flow.
Cash provided by operations was $82 million in the quarter compared to $177 million last year.
This decline primarily reflects the higher current year use of cash to support inventory and other working capital need compared to the prior year.
Capital expenditures were $36 million in the quarter resulting in free cash flow of $46 million.
Due to the timing of the start for certain projects CapEx spend was less than expected in the first quarter.
However we continue to anticipate a full year total of approximately $270 million as the CapEx related to key 2014 initiatives is expected to ramp up later in the fiscal year.
And at this point our 2014 free cash flow target remains at $600 million.
As Richard noted we acquired 1.5 million shares during the first quarter borrowing $145 million against our revolver to help fund the repurchase.
Some of the borrowings were repaid by the end of the quarter as there was $85 million outstanding at July 31.
We anticipate borrowing further in the second quarter but expect to pay down all revolver borrowings by the end of the fiscal year.
Let me conclude by updating our full year sales and EPS outlook.
We continue to expect volume for our U.S.
Retail segments to increase approximately 2% over the prior year with overall company volume flat reflecting the planned rationalizations within International Foodservice and Natural Foods.
We now anticipate 2014 net sales will decrease approximately 1% from the prior year compared to our initial guidance of being flat year-over-year.
The decrease reflects the net sales impact of passing through commodity cost declines in coffee.
Sales of approximately $40 million associated with the Enray acquisitions are included within our guidance.
We have increased our non-GAAP income per share outlook to a range of $5.72 to $5.82 up from our previous guidance of $5.65 to $5.75.
The increase primarily reflects the share repurchase activity in the first quarter as the range now assumes weighted average shares of approximately 105.5 million shares along with a modest EPS impact in 2014 from the acquisition of Enray.
Based on our first quarter results and plans for the rest of the year we're cautiously optimistic about achieving the high end of this range.
In closing let me reiterate that we are pleased to have delivered a solid first quarter.
With good plans in place for the upcoming promotional periods we look forward to continuing this momentum as we proceed through the fiscal year.
With that we will open up the call to your questions.
And operator please queue up the first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess Richard maybe or Vince you could comment just more broadly on kind of the consumer and the environment.
It seems like a lot of the food companies focused in the U.S.
were getting a little bit more optimistic as the spring unfolded and then it seems like some of the retailers out there along with some of your competitors have kind of noticed a bit more I guess weakness sequentially as kind of the year has unfolded.
Maybe you could ask or answer that and I'll have a follow-up just on the company.
Yes Eric this is Richard.
That's a good question.
The way we look at it I think we've mentioned this before we kind of put the consumers into 3 buckets: the top 1/3 the middle 1/3 and the bottom 1/3.
And I think we still see that the top 1/3 is doing fine.
The middle 1/3 is doing fine although sometimes they don't know it don't feel it.
But the bottom 1/3 of the consumer is still very challenged and we've seen that.
The way we've responded to that is to make sure we have the right pricing in each level to provide them with the right products and pricing for each group.
But I guess consumer confidence is still up as far as you look at the Michigan consumer confidence trends.
But I have to admit on some of our retailers we're seeing that lower 1/3 being challenged and we think that's going to continue throughout the year but I think we're well positioned because of the product lines that we offer and the product categories that we're in to do pretty well in this environment.
Eric this is Vince.
I would only support exactly what you said and I think that's probably what's leading a little bit to our cautious optimism about the back half of the year.
We feel we're in a very good place as we head into the holiday bake period but you can't ignore the results of some of our key customers and some of our peers within the consumer industry.
So we're certainly -- we believe we're in a good place as Richard mentioned but we just can't ignore the -- some of the trends that we're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as I guess kind of a follow-up to that.
You've been pretty consistent across I don't know maybe 70% of the business that's a little more pass-through oriented.
I guess you mentioned you've kind of locked in through the calendar year but it seems as if there's some deflationary pressure out there.
Do you see retailers pressuring you to lower pricing further particularly in coffee? And I'll pass it on.
Eric this is Vince again.
Yes there has been pressure from time-to-time on making sure that we pass those costs on.
I think we are consistent in our approach of being as transparent as we can.
In some cases over the past 18 months we've leaned forward into some of our pricing which is evident by say peanut butter.
But also as we said in the scripted remarks we need to keep in mind that we can pass those pricing on through other mechanisms other than just maybe list price decreases or increases or decreases that the teams have other levers whether it be through trade strategies or marketing activities.
Our next question comes from Andrew Lazar of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> This may relate to the answer -- part of Eric's first question but I guess your -- the U.S.
Retail volume where both Coffee and Consumer volume was up a healthy 4% in the quarter you're holding your full year volume guidance for U.S.
Retail at up -- I guess up 2% essentially.
So I'm trying to get a sense of is something specifically expected to change in the back half of the year that you kind of see already in your business or is it just related to can't ignore some of the broader industry factors that you talked about? Andrew this is Vince.
Let me just start and I'll turn it to Mark and Paul.
But basically in the first quarter we did get the benefit of a couple of things: First of all innovation and new products contributed significantly to our growth which of course some of that would be pipeline fill.
Secondly we had a very solid quarter on oil and flour business which we're excited about but on the other hand that typically doesn't occur quarter-after-quarter.
But as I said earlier we don't see anything in our business given where we are on our pricing and our promotional strategies to be pessimistic.
It's just that again the nature of being somewhat conservative given what we see in the marketplace.
So I'll ask Paul or Mark if they have anything they would like to add to that.
No I think that's right.
Research Division</strong> And then there aren't -- I guess that many U.S.
food companies are getting sort of a kind of positive mix impact that you have been getting quarter in and quarter out.
I think this quarter mix was a 2% positive contributor.
And then trying to get a sense of the sustainability of that maybe we can talk about the couple of key buckets right that that mix is coming from and which ones you think are kind of structural going forward.
So one bucket is obviously the faster growth of the K-Cup piece.
One would be some of the SKU rationalization or business rationalization maybe you're doing in specific segments.
And then what's going on in sort of the core business whether it be new higher-margin products or what have you but trying to get a sense if you can sort of dimensionalize those for us to give us a sense of sustainability of mix going forward? Andrew this is Mark Belgya.
Couple of comments on mix.
Yes we have really last probably 2 or 3 years have benefited.
A lot of that was driven by coffee and as you mentioned particularly K-Cup.
This quarter I think we continue to benefit from peanut butter as well.
Even with the impact of higher peanut cost it's still a good margin business and obviously volume was very strong.
I think the other thing too and this probably is more of a comment in the baking area and we talked about this over the years is that as we have grown Pillsbury from sort of a traditional cake business to more of a seasonal they tend to be a higher range -- higher margin business.
So as we've grown that and really that probably applies even to new products across-the-board they do tend to be a little more stronger margin because they're delivering on whether it's convenience or good good-for-you type attributes which just obviously presents a better mix opportunity than just what I would say are more traditional products.
Our next question comes from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You guys pride yourself on being a transparent company.
I think most of the time you deserve credit for being just that.
But when you raise your guidance in a press release and you don't mention that one of the main reasons for the increase is an acquisition and you don't mention the acquisition until the press release that comes out later that's maybe the opposite of transparency.
So before my question I just wanted to give my -- get up on my soapbox so forgive me for that for a second.
Ken this is Mark.
let me just address that just to quantify.
It really was not material and had it been we would have addressed that in the release and in both releases.
But that was not the key driver of that guidance move.
Research Division</strong> So the main driver was more about the share buyback then? Yes and then obviously the discussion around the higher end is just an overall view of the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Why didn't you mention that in the press release? And forgive me I guess it's soapbox day for me but why not just mention that? Because there is a little bit of confusion this morning among the investor base as to whether the acquisition was meaningful or not.
And when you don't mention that it's accretive or not you don't mention the margins you don't mention the growth people kind of assume the worst.
Well yes I'll just address that as well.
We have a lot of discussion around how we wanted to handle the announcement of Enray.
And we felt because of the importance of that business to our Natural Foods and just the overall importance of the acquisition internally we wanted to do it separately and again because this year's contribution is not material we did not think that we were misleading anybody by adjusting the guidance and not referencing it with the intent of obviously covering it during the call.
Ken this is Richard.
I would hope that the people on the call and our other investors don't feel that there's any sleight of hand here.
We've have been -- always been transparent.
And it's a small acquisition very important acquisition in the long run but its sales are $45 million.
We're only going to have it for about less than 3/4 of the year.
So the actual add to earnings is very small in the first year.
We expect it to be in fact very small.
So as Mark mentioned the increase in the earnings guidance is because of the share buyback and the positive nature of our momentum which is continuing through last year and this year both.
So I just want to make that clear.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that and I'm sure I'm annoying people by asking this so I'll let it go from there.
Just one quick question Mark.
You cited higher inventory and other working capital needs.
Maybe you mentioned this and I missed it but can you talk about why inventory was up at a time when costs are down? I might have expected the opposite.
Yes a lot of it Ken had to do with last year actually.
It was probably in certain categories it was lower than we would have liked.
So -- and I think we might have commented on this earlier this calendar year but we thought we would be building inventory.
And then we actually -- we're probably building a little bit earlier on some of our upfronts around business continuity and Fall Bake.
But last year's was what I would say was abnormally low compared to where we would feel more comfortable from both a customer service and just inventory levels in general.
Our next question comes from David Driscoll of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just wanted to ask a little bit about the K-Cup business.
You mentioned in your prepared script the quarter comes out at 14% growth.
Your guidance for the year 15% growth.
Can you develop this a little bit and just talk about what you're seeing kind of category trends? How strong are the private label offerings? How much is that affecting your growth? And then why the confidence in I guess is just a slight pickup but I think you made some comments about the seasonally strong periods for K-Cups coming up and your expectations of how you're going to perform.
But can you just talk a little bit more about the environment itself and these types of growth rates? Sure David this is Mark Smucker.
I guess I would start on the confidence side and that is that if you look at consumer takeaway in the quarter it was still very strong.
And although we did report 14% in shipments when you look at consumer takeaway it's still in the 20% range.
And so maybe a little bit of the softness that we saw would have come from a couple of our Millstone items but our Folgers brand is extremely strong with 30-plus percent consumer takeaway.
So I think we still feel pretty obviously very good about the category in general.
The other comment just more broadly about the segment is that sure private label and some of the unlicensed participants are garnering a good amount of trial.
We think that that noise and just the number of new brands and players that are in the market will continue through the fall and holiday period.
But again as we've said many many times just the relationship with Green Mountain the relative cost and quality advantages that we believe we enjoy by being partnered with them some of the commitments that some of their other partners have made as well just point to the fact that it's still great growth and we still feel confident about it.
Research Division</strong> One follow-up on coffee.
I believe and just to confirm that what you said is that the front half of the year is where the profit growth is weighted to and that is simply because -- or the driving factor here isn't necessarily K-Cups it's really related to the cost and pricing favorability.
That lower coffee costs combined with the decline in pricing not being as much as the decline in costs shows up much more favorable in the front half of the year than the back half of the year.
First off is that correct? And then in the back half of the year is profit growth just really a function of volume growth? Yes I think all of that is correct David.
David I would only add that if you look back to last year you will see that we're going to be facing some very difficult comps as it relates to profitability in the third and fourth quarter in particular.
So that's why the comment about it being more front-loaded than back loaded.
Our next question comes from Jonathan Feeney of Janney.
Research Division</strong> I noted in your press release the marketing spending variance between the 2 businesses.
You have a little bit of a different trend and it surprised me.
It looks like marketing was up for the Coffee business and down for the Consumer business where the volumes -- it seemed like the Consumer business maybe needed a little bit more investment at this stage.
What do you think marketing and advertising will be for the full year across those 2 businesses? And what should we expect for the second half as far as the sequential change? Hey Jonathan this is Paul.
Regarding the Consumer Foods business for the full year our marketing spend is going to be up and that's what we plan and actually we're excited about that with the launch of all of our new items and the support of the Olympics initiatives.
So we feel good about our marketing spend and we feel it's going to be up versus prior year.
Research Division</strong> And the same for Coffee? Yes essentially it would be the same for Coffee.
It will be up versus the prior year.
Research Division</strong> And I know this is not necessarily your direct bailiwick but do you get the sense in your categories I know this is a broad question that your competitors are raising marketing and advertising spending because what we see is it seems like over the past couple of years somewhat of the opposite and maybe that having a negative impact on category.
So if you can just comment on that category level marketing and advertising how that's driving the categories? That's all I have.
Yes this is Paul.
And I know in the Consumer Foods categories we have seen some increase in marketing spend on some of our competitors in some of the categories so it's a little bit of a mixed bag.
But we feel people have been a little more responsible and actually pushing some marketing to drive the categories which we actually feel is good overall.
Yes this is Mark Smucker.
I agree with Paul.
I think that it's a mixed bag in terms of the competitive spend.
There are some isolated incidents or it's by brand.
But overall we continue to be the leader in share of voice and just consistent communication with the consumer.
So I would think that we lead in that area.
Our next question comes from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just one follow-up on the inventory.
Mark if you can get into a little bit more details.
I mean with costs coming down; inventory days even on a year-over-year basis I think were up at least 6 days.
Is this -- is this strategic and should we expect this every year now given your plans have also moved to an area that's exposed to some more weather risk if I may or can you just help us understand what's going on because it does seem -- I know you talked about year-over-year there's a difference but seems like this is related to where your plants are located and it's affecting how you sort bought things of this year? Sure Akshay.
This is Mark Belgya.
I think a couple of things.
I think the comment that you're discussing is around coffee and obviously our location is in New Orleans area.
The practice there -- and Mark please add in here.
But I think the practice that started with Procter's ownership and we've continued.
It's just a prudent way to manage that business.
I think the other thing that you got to just keep in mind is in addition to the hurricane preparation we also lead into a Fall Bake so we've kind of got 2 big working capital needs.
So fundamentally I don't think there's anything different.
You'll recall last year in our second quarter we spoke to an issue we had with our supply chain as it related to canisters.
So that was a driver as to why our finished goods inventory was just lower than normal.
So as I said on the year-end call internally we feel that there's continued opportunity in managing down working capital from a free cash flow.
And although we don't speak to it we don't have any major initiatives in place we still think it's an opportunity.
So it's more just the explanation for the quarter but I wouldn't really read anything into that beyond.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just on single serve your comments regarding your relationship with Green Mountain honestly I don't know exactly what to make of it.
It seems like your support you're very happy with the relationship but the fact that you're not announcing anything specific like most other large guys have is that just a function of your own company policy where you like to keep things private? Or is that a function of different terms or that you're playing it a little bit closer to the vest? Or I don't know what should we make of the fact that other large companies have publicly extended their relationship with Green Mountain and you're not doing it publicly but it seems like you're still being supported so I'm a little bit conflicted trying to understand that a little better.
Akshay this is Vince.
Let me try to reinforce what we said in the scripted remarks.
Obviously the investment community has raised a question about the term of our contract and relationship with Green Mountain and other branded partners had press releases about extending terms and number of years.
So first of all it is our style not to necessarily disclose any contractual arrangements with a partner.
But what we were trying to assure the community is that we are very comfortable with the agreement that we have in place with Green Mountain and the fact that it is a multi-year agreement so you should not be worried about the term of that relationship as we go forward.
And that's nothing more nothing less.
That was the key message we were trying to deliver.
I might add to that just to give some additional comfort is that I think when we first made our agreement with Green Mountain we recognized and believed that they were going to be the long-term key winner in this category.
And so our initial negotiations with them was for a long-term agreement.
And I don't know what the other partners did in their initial agreements but we didn't have to adjust because of that because we had faith I guess from the beginning.
Research Division</strong> So in other words I mean the relationship has gone as good as you thought it was or better and it's just status quo.
You're very happy with that business is that a good way to characterize it? Yes the relationship has far exceeded I think either one of our expectations.
Again and I think if you recall we evaluated the entire single serve landscape when we acquired the Folgers business from Procter and concluded that Green Mountain was probably going to be the winning partner.
And I think at this point -- well I don't think we're very pleased with the results that we've achieved.
We've helped grow the overall pie as we said.
We've strengthened our position of single serve at retail.
And as we said before we have ongoing dialogue of projects that we'll continue to look at that relationship going forward.
We've already had a couple of amendments and we're looking at other opportunities.
So we feel very solid with the Green Mountain team.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one on just overall sort of your feel going into the year.
I heard Ken's question I'm coming from the opposite side which is you usually don't raise guidance in the first quarter and just judging from the brief commentary that you had seems like you're seeing something that's more positive than I thought.
So can you just help me -- I mean you're going into the Fall Bake season and obviously you're getting ready with a little bit more inventory and volumes came in much better.
I mean is it shaping up to be a better year generally? Am I wrong in thinking that typically you wouldn't raise guidance in the first quarter and the volume trends are looking positive.
Am I reading that incorrectly that it's actually looking pretty better for you throughout the year.
It seems to have gone off to a better start than expected.
And if so can you just give us some other tidbit than what you've already mentioned that made you feel good about demand from the consumer for your products? Is it just that price points on an absolute basis are coming in where you think demand is better or just help me understand that? Let me try to do that Akshay.
This is Mark Belgya.
A couple of things.
One is you are correct about the timing.
We don't typically adjust or address a guidance.
I think part of that was driven by what we said in our scripted comments around the share repurchase.
I know that we were partway through the buyback when we did our 10-K.
So there were some indications.
So we felt it was appropriate to adjust for that.
And then I think that the first quarter exceeded our expectations and for all the reasons I think Vince probably said it best is that everything -- we got a lot of good programs in place and there's really no negatives.
We still have to get through Fall Bake and we've lived that the last couple of years where it's been very positive and then less than that.
But things are great.
I mean we've got good Fall Bake promotional plans in place.
We're very excited about the sponsorship in the back half of our fiscal year with the Olympics and new products.
Yes I guess to some degree when you get 1 quarter down it probably does make you feel a little stronger and thus we felt that it was appropriate to raise guidance.
Our next question comes from Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask about the peanut forward contracting practices.
I know that you ended up with taking pricing down 3 or 4 quarters ahead of when those higher priced peanuts rolled off.
As you look forward into when the peanut prices get lower would you think about changing the way that you do that going forward? Or do you plan to have the same kind of practices in place out through fiscal '15? Alexia this is Paul.
And as far as our peanut purchasing process we have looked -- taken a step back and looked at how we've done that over the years and is there need to make any adjustments.
And I'd say it's fair to say that we have kind of looked at all sorts of different alternatives.
We feel comfortable with our approach going forward.
We have made some slight adjustments to it and I think we'll be -- feel better positioned as we go forward overall with how we purchase peanuts.
But again it was a very unusual about a 1.5 years 2 years that we had with peanuts with a couple of really bad crops and followed by a huge crop.
So it was kind of unusual circumstances.
But overall we feel good about what we're doing and we've made some slight adjustments but we feel strong in our position.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a quick follow-up.
On the Enray acquisition do I gather from your earlier comments that there'll be no margin impact from that at all? Alexia this is Mark Belgya again.
We didn't quantify but just to put some numbers out there.
For a full year it's probably about $0.05 and obviously the ownership this year is going to be less than a fiscal so something less than $0.05.
This is Steve Oakland.
I want to make sure we talked a little bit about the transparency comment about this business.
I don't want to misrepresent it.
To Mark's point we're clearly going to have it for a very short period of time.
But it's a wonderful business and we think it's got great growth potential and we talked about that in the scripted remarks.
And we just want to get ourselves a marketing team get their hands on this thing and we think there's opportunities for distribution.
They've done a great job on supply chain and innovation and we've got a much larger go-to-market organization in the natural channel.
So when we put the 2 of those together literally the announcement meeting with their team is going on as we speak right now in California.
So let us get our hands on this thing and we feel great about it.
We did want to send the message though that it is a profitable business.
It's just small at the current time.
Our next question comes from Rob Dickerson of Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Just to come back to the free cash flow and the buyback for a second.
So can you just kind of walk me through the thought process of why now? Like why be purchasing $165 million worth of stock now when the free cash flow in Q1 was down substantially relative to Q1 last year; and last year in Q1 you didn't really buy back stock.
I'm just trying to get a sense if you do any acquisitions now and you're increasing your buyback early on in the year why is that different than what you would have done last year when you technically should have had more cash and inventory wasn't an outflow? This is Mark.
A couple of things.
One is we're obviously looking at our cash generation over the course of the year recognizing that the first half is typically a use of cash.
And I don't want to mislead folks by saying that we just went out and borrowed money to do the stock repurchase.
We're going to be in a borrowing position regardless which is typical for this time of year.
Just as why in the first quarter we bought the shares probably about $101-plus so we still felt that was a good value to go out into the market and buy and we're comfortable with the cash on the back half of the year that as I said earlier we're going to pay down all our revolver.
We're still fine from a leverage perspective if the right opportunity came up from acquisitions.
So I don't really see there's any hindrance.
Obviously the cost of borrowing on a short term is extremely low.
So all in all we just didn't view it negatively and we think it sends great message with the investment in our own company's stock.
LLC</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then for the new guidance that I'm assuming that now is based off of the current diluted shares as of reported this morning.
It's not off the 106.5 that you did before but it's off the new number.
There's not an embedded continued buyback occurring for the rest of the year that you've put into guidance? That's correct.
The next question comes from Thilo Wrede of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I think on the last quarter call you talked about the plan to increase marketing spending this year by 10%.
Is that still the plan? Or has that number come down because it sounds like you're planning to shift more into promotions at least for the coffee business? Okay.
Thilo this is Mark Belgya again.
Yes we have not changed our guidance.
You might not have caught it a little bit earlier but we still expect total marketing to be up 10%.
I think what you're going to see is in the first half of the year as you saw in the first quarter it's below that 10% but that really is because of the planned spend related to our U.S.
Olympic sponsorship obviously tied-in closer to the February Winter Olympic Games.
So it will ramp up -- so by year's end it'll be around 10% total company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I must have missed that in the beginning.
Sorry about that.
And then are you seeing a change in your price elasticity that how consumers are reacting to the price reductions that you've had so far? Sorry I didn't hear the last part -- we didn't hear the last part of your question.
Sorry.
Research Division</strong> Sorry.
Are you seeing an unexpected price elasticity or volume response to the price reductions that you've had or is that all coming in as planned? Let me just start.
I think the key learning was probably 2 years ago when we were in a very high inflationary environment and given where the economy was at that particular point.
It was a combination of the absolute price point as well as managing gaps.
But then our teams have done -- I think we've commented in the last several quarters our teams are doing a much much better job of managing those gaps.
And then clearly the absolute price points have benefited us and our brands and whether they trade up or trade down within some of our categories.
I think in Coffee -- this is Mark Smucker the elasticity is as expected.
But Vince is right that when we're in a more normalized pricing scenario it's just having that discipline of managing our absolute and relative prices to our competitors.
And I would agree.
In Consumer Foods very similar comments to what both Mark and Vince said.
We feel the consumer takeaway is being reflected based on our price points and getting them right on shelf.
So we feel good about that.
Our next question comes from Farha Aslam with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> When you look at Olympics this is the first time you've participated.
So could you just give us some color on what the timing and costs we should expect in terms of do you expect a volume benefit or pickup from the Olympics? If so when? And then also how should we model costs that would be related to the Olympics? Farha I'll start and then we can talk -- Mark Belgya maybe can talk about the financial impact.
But we're not public with the amount of our commitment to the USOC but it's fair to say that the increase in marketing spend a lot of that is driven by our overall support as well as we have shifted some of the existing marketing spend to support the Olympics.
And so I guess the key point though is that it's a holistic view and in terms of almost every element of the marketing mix including new television advertising in-store displays digital and social media et cetera.
The other comment that is probably relevant is that in terms of the volume impact we obviously hope by aligning with the other 6 or 7 key major sponsors which are some very significant consumer brands we're able to leverage that and work with them as well and hopefully getting some very significant display activity.
And so it's public knowledge relative to some of those other partners but the Kelloggs and Procter &amp; Gambles and Coca-Colas et cetera.
So we feel very very good about where we are.
But most of that impact of course will be the first Winter Olympics coming up in Russia.
I don't really have much more to add to that.
We might -- let's add the brands.
So Paul you want to speak to the brands? So on Consumer Foods we're going to have the Jif band the Smucker brand and our Uncrustable brands be part of the sponsorship.
And I don't really have much more to add on to Vince he was right on.
Yes and on Coffee it's Folgers and since it's our first time going through that.
It is going to be a learning experience but we do expect benefit.
I just don't think we've quantified that at this point.
And it's a 4-year relationship so it will go through the Summer Olympics in Brazil.
So as Mark said I think we'll have some very key learnings through this Olympic period and then hopefully it'll build and do better in the next.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-on to your top line growth.
So it looks like Enray is going to benefit your top line by about 60 basis points this year but you've guided to lower sales for the year.
Clearly you're anticipating a lot more coffee promotional activity in light of the declines in robusta costs even though you're not cutting your list prices.
Could you just tell us how you plan to manage pricing going forward? Do you have -- have you built capabilities that'll help you respond? How quickly can you respond to competitive activity in coffee and the rest of your portfolio because it's clear that we should expect more promotions going forward.
Yes Farha.
It's Mark Smucker.
You're absolutely right.
We can respond very quickly.
And as Vince pointed out in the script although the green coffee costs have come down at a very gradual but generally consistent rate and that of course benefits us we have not crossed a critical threshold at this point where we would take a broad list price decline.
And so as we are always transparent with our customers we want to share and it's appropriate to share in that benefit with the trade and so a lot of that is done by planning additional promotional activity responsibly of course to make sure that we continue to manage as Vince said the relative gaps to our competitors.
So bottom line we're transparent and we're sharing some of those costs by passing them through in the form of promotional activities.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe of Stifel Financial.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just -- I had 2 quick questions for you.
I just want to ask first off on the -- in the first quarter you did have a good amount of new product activity and you cited that as a factor that mid-helped [ph] revenue a little bit.
I wanted to just get a sense if you can talk about how much you think that benefited the revenue? And I guess more importantly what divisions was that the biggest benefit such that year-over-year there was an increase in new product activity? Just from an overall perspective of our 4% growth in U.S.
Retail it was approximately 1% of that 4% was driven by new products.
And Mark and Paul can speak to their respective areas.
Chris Paul here.
In Consumer Foods we had about 60 new items that we launched or are in the process of launching.
And as Vince said 1% of our volume growth was -- for the quarter was due to the new products.
So we feel good about those.
And in Coffee again number of new products.
In the quarter it was north of $70 million that were related to new products obviously a lot of that was K-Cups.
But I think you'll see that going forward in the subsequent quarters some of the items that we're launching in Dunkin' Bakery Series as well as the Life is good brand we'll start to see those sales come through in the second and third and fourth quarters.
So at the beginning of the year not a lot but we'll see that pick up through the holiday period.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just to be clear on that Mark the $70 million of new products that's an absolute number or is that the change year-over-year? Because you have more new products coming in it sounds like in the division as well which could be very incremental? That's absolute.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Absolute okay.
And then just a quick follow-up would be just to understand the input costs and really I'm more interested in it sounds like you're pretty well hedged through Fall Bake and Holiday.
Could you say that about the full year that you feel pretty good about your input cost estimates for the year? Chris Paul here.
Yes you said that correctly.
Through Fall Bake we're very well positioned and everything's locked in and we're good to go.
I'd say based on how we're seeing the commodity market react here we feel good about the full year as well.
Again we watch that on a regular basis so as things change we can react to it.
But overall we feel pretty good about where costs are coming in.
I agree with Paul.
In Coffee we don't comment specifically on our position but we are comfortable with where we're sitting now.
We do believe that arabica markets are going to continue to probably trade within the range that they are just because there's plenty of arabica supply out there.
The demand for robusta is a little stronger so we might be a little more bullish on robusta.
But really I think it's what we said in the script that those commodities will continue to trade roughly in the ranges that they are.
Our next question comes from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to pick up the last questioning right where we just left off.
Mark you were talking about the path forward for coffee costs.
There's been some headlines coming out of Brazil that there the prices are below the cost of production.
The government stepped in to intervene.
Clearly there's adequate supply today.
What do you see the path forward there? And then secondly sticking on coffee you mentioned the shipments below the rate of consumption on K-Cups.
I'm curious what you think drove that destocking by retail and whether or not we should be concerned that it foreshadows some sort of distribution or shelving changes.
Jason this is Mark.
We haven't seen any significant destocking and it may just be timing related.
I think again there will be some noise in the period or in the holiday period rather as it relates to a lot of the new entrants and so forth.
So obviously we're going to watch that very carefully.
But again we're encouraged by the performance of the segment and in particular our Folgers brand.
So I think that's why we still have some optimism.
And then back to your first part of the question Brazil tends to operate in a big crop and then a smaller crop rotating year-over-year.
This was technically an off year and it's been probably the largest -- I think it is the largest off crop that they've ever had.
And so again you're exactly right there's a lot of supply out there and the forecast for the next crop is also large and so I think that's what's driving the arabica markets from a fundamentals perspective.
Our last question will come from John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just in terms of Retail Coffee wondering if you can speak to the Millstone brand? I know the scanner data has been quite weak there.
So just wondering if you can walk through your positioning and strategy around that brand and particularly maybe in K-Cups? Sure John.
This is Mark Smucker again.
If you recall we made a -- well the consumer I should say made the decision that bulk coffee is not something that they're interested any longer.
And so we are actually exiting the bulk coffee business.
And so a lot of what you're seeing is related to our exit of the bulk coffee.
But we are committed to the brand both in K-Cups as well as in bagged coffee and so we will continue to support it.
But you will see at least over the next couple of quarters you're going to see continued declines in that brand due to the bulk exit.
Well with that that seems to be our last question.
So we thank you for your time today and we look forward to a good year.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen if you wish to access the rebroadcast after this live call you may do so by dialing 1 (888) 203-1112 or 1 (719) 457-0820 with the passcode of 7507809.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to The J.M.
Smucker Company's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
At this time I'd like to remind you that this conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I'll now turn the conference over to Sonal Robinson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Ms.
Robinson.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our second quarter earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
On the call with me are Richard Smucker Chief Executive Officer; Vince Byrd President and Chief Operating Officer; Mark Belgya Chief Financial Officer; Steve Oakland President International Foodservice and Natural Foods; Mark Smucker President U.S.
Retail Coffee; and Paul Smucker Wagstaff President U.S.
Retail Consumer Foods.
Following this introduction Richard will provide an overview of our second quarter performance.
Vince will then provide an update on our business segments and Mark will close with additional comments on our financial results for the quarter and our outlook for the full year.
Before I turn the call over to Richard let me remind you that we may make forward-looking statements during the call that reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates and actual results may differ materially due to risk and uncertainties.
I encourage you to read the full disclosure statement in the press release concerning forward-looking statements.
Additionally please note the company uses non-GAAP results for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.
Discussion on non-GAAP information is detailed in our press release located on our new corporate website at jmsmuckers.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the website.
If you have any follow-up questions or comments after today's call please do not hesitate to contact me or Mark Belgya.
Let me now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Sonal.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
We are pleased to have delivered another record quarter in earnings per share.
This is a result of our commitment to our long-term strategy the strength of our brands and the passion of our employees.
Let me begin with a few key highlights for the quarter.
First non-GAAP earnings per share increased 5% to $1.52 with lower interest expense and a lower share count benefiting our year-over-year growth.
While second quarter EPS slightly trailed our expectations by 1% we remain pleased with the company's performance through the first half of the fiscal year particularly in light of the strategic decisions to exit parts of our business combined with the uncertain macro environment.
As we look ahead to the balance of fiscal 2014 we remain confident in our ability to deliver on the earnings guidance that Mark will share with you in a few moments.
Second solid volume results were achieved across much of our business including Folgers and Dunkin' Donuts coffee Smucker's Fruit Spreads Jif peanut butter and Crisco oils.
While up in most of our key categories volume continued to be impacted by the planned product rationalization in our International Foodservice and Natural Foods segment.
This combined with pricing actions taken over the past year continued to result in expected deflation on the top line.
Third segment profit growth in the U.S.
retail segment was closely in line with our expectations reflecting our previous commentary that the coffee segment profit growth would be front half-loaded with consumer foods expecting to see strong segment profit growth in the back half.
Segment profit for International Foodservice and Natural Foods was down in the second quarter primarily reflecting our planned rationalizations.
As the impact of these activities begins to decelerate profit growth in this segment is also expected to be positive in the back half.
In addition some unplanned manufacturing expenses did impact the quarter's results as Vince will discuss.
Lastly our brand investments remain strong.
Marketing will continue to ramp up as we kick off activities in support of our sponsorship of the 2014 Winter Olympics.
In addition we remain on track to launch 100 new products this fiscal year.
Let me now take a moment to share a more macro look at the economy and how it's affecting our industry.
The U.S.
consumer has demonstrated extraordinary resilience over the past 12 to 18 months.
The news regarding the fiscal cliff sequester debt ceiling and health care has taken a toll on consumer confidence causing shoppers to take pause before spending.
However for the latest 12-week scan period which included the government shutdown total U.S.
edible dollars and volume were up slightly compared to the prior year.
We remain focused on our strategy of providing value to our consumers across our portfolio and ensuring our products can be found in all the channels that consumers shop and at a fair price.
As we enter the back half of our fiscal year we are in the midst of the important fall bake and holiday period.
We are encouraged by the activities to date and continue to be optimistic for a solid conclusion to the holiday season and delivering a strong third quarter of profitable growth.
This conviction is supported by several key factors including the quality marketing and merchandising programs in place across our brands and categories the ongoing contributions of our strategic growth drivers of innovations and acquisitions and the continued favorable impact in overall commodity cost which supports our ability to execute on our pricing and promotional strategies.
Let me now take a moment to speak to the FDA's recent announcement related to partially hydrogenated oils or PHOs.
For the past several years the food industry in general and our company specifically have been responding to changes in consumer preference in this area.
We have been actively working toward transitioning PHOs out of the limited number of our categories where the ingredient is still used and anticipate that these will be reformulated prior to the FDA implementing any new rules.
As such we do not anticipate the FDA's recent announcement will impact our business.
So in summary we believe our first half performance combined with our plans for the back half of the fiscal year have positioned us to deliver another record year of earnings growth.
As always we want to recognize the dedication of our talented employees and we thank them for their continued efforts.
With that I'll turn the call over to Vince for an update on our business segments.
Thank you Richard.
Good morning everyone.
We remain committed to our key initiatives for fiscal 2014.
These include building our brands through investments in marketing and innovation enhancing our pricing strategies improving our supply chain and ultimately managing the business for the long term.
Let me provide some commentary on the performance of the segments focusing on those areas that impacted the quarter and those that will drive our ability to deliver another year of earnings growth.
I will begin by summarizing a key few points for U.S.
Retail Coffee.
We are pleased with the overall volume performance for the segment as the 2% growth came against a strong comp in the prior year.
The growth reflects the continuing momentum in our core Folgers business along with another strong quarter for the Dunkin' Donuts brand with volume up 11%.
Turning to K-Cups.
As we have referenced the category is very dynamic with many new competitors and offerings.
It is our view that consumers are using this time period to experiment with new flavors and brands.
With that said the performance of our K-Cup business was below our expectations for the quarter with volume up 4% and sales flat to the prior year.
We are seeing an increasing disparity between the results of our 2 K-Cup brands.
Folgers Gourmet Selection which represented approximately 80% of our 2013 K-Cup sales were up 9% in sales for the quarter.
In addition we are pleased that the repeat purchase rates for this well-known and trusted brand remain strong.
Conversely we are seeing sales decline for our Millstone K-Cup offerings.
As a brand that is less widely recognized we believe Millstone has been impacted more significantly from the influx of competitor entries into the category.
Given these dynamics we are lowering our full year K-Cup sales expectation to mid-single digit percent growth for 2014.
However we continue to believe that ultimately K-Cup brands that invest in the consumer and the category and offer a high-quality product will be the long-term winners.
To that end we remain positive about our K-Cup business and our relationship with Green Mountain Coffee Roasters over the long term given innovation yet to come.
In addition we will begin distributing K-Cups in new channels including the dollar class of trade and the e-commerce channel by the end of the fiscal year.
We also have plans in place to launch 3 new varieties in fiscal 2015 all of which are expected to support further growth.
Turning now to the coffee segment profit.
Our price-to-cost relationship continued to have a positive impact on both the segment and the company's financial results compared to the prior year.
This is consistent with our expectation for the front-loaded segment profit growth in fiscal 2014.
We expect to continue to utilize various pricing levers to pass along the benefit of lower green coffee cost to our customers and consumers.
The impact of these actions in combination with record profits in the last 6 months of fiscal 2013 is expected to result in segment profit being relatively flat over the remainder of fiscal 2014 in comparison to the prior year.
As we have indicated previously these price-to-cost timing impacts will continue to affect quarterly year-over-year comparisons.
Our focus remains on managing the profitability over the fiscal year and on a long-term basis.
To that point we have delivered year-over-year segment profit growth each fiscal year since owning the business.
Let me conclude my comments on coffee with a brief update on the supply chain.
During the second quarter we acquired the lease rights and certain other assets associated with the Silocaf operation located in the Port of New Orleans where the majority of our green coffee purchases are received.
The previous owners will continue to operate the facility on our behalf.
We believe the Silocaf operations provide a competitive advantage for our coffee business and this strategic investment allows us to solidify our control over this important component of our green coffee supply chain.
Let me now shift to the consumer foods segment and start the discussion with fruit spreads and peanut butter.
During the key back-to-school promotional period we saw volume gains for Smucker's Fruit Spreads Jif peanut butter and Smucker's Uncrustables frozen sandwiches with new products contributing to the growth.
While volume was up across our PB&amp;J business profitability was down.
Much of this decline was anticipated reflecting our previously -- decisions to lean into price declines in advance of recognizing lower commodity costs within peanut butter and the anticipated supply chain's savings within fruit spreads.
In addition temporary incremental costs were also incurred during the second quarter related to the final phase of our startup of the new manufacturing facility in Orrville.
However we believe these costs are now behind us as we remain on track to complete this project by the end of the calendar year and realize the incremental targeted cost savings.
Further in peanut butter we expect to realize the benefit of lower peanut cost for the remainder of the fiscal year.
We anticipate this will be a key driver for consumer foods recognizing segment profit growth in the back half of the fiscal year mostly offsetting the declines realized through the first 6 months and stabilizing margins for the coming year.
In the bake aisle volume was up for Crisco oils reflecting the brand's return to a key retailer's bake center this holiday season.
Offsetting these gains were volume declines in flour baking mixes and private label canned milk where we either changed our promotional strategy to improve margin or chose not to meet aggressive competitive pricing.
Overall for the consumer foods segment our focus on brand building and innovation continued to be a key contributor to the quarterly results.
This includes a strong initial performance of our recently launched Jif Whips product line as well as ongoing contribution from Pillsbury Baking items and Smucker's Natural Fruit Spreads.
As Richard indicated the company is on track to launch approximately 100 new items this year with nearly half of those products coming from consumer foods.
Let me conclude with International Foodservice and Natural Foods where a number of planned and unplanned events primarily in our Foodservice business impacted comparability for the segment.
Most notably for the quarter was the planned decrease in Uncrustable sales resulting from last year's strategic decision to exit the USDA commodity peanut butter program for schools.
The volume and profit impact of this exit was relatively higher in the second quarter as it reflects the seasonal ordering patterns associated with the start of a new school year in addition to the strong comps a year ago.
While our retail Uncrustables net sales increased 25% in the quarter it did not fully absorb the lost volume associated with schools.
The profit impact resulted from the net decline in Uncrustables volume along with startup costs associated with the new bakery at our Scottsville facility caused the overall Uncrustable business to negatively impact the company's results for the quarter.
Uncrustables accounted for more than 1/2 of the year-over-year decline in the segment profit for the International Foodservice and Natural Foods segment while also contributing slightly to the decline in the Consumer Foods segment.
However with continued growth anticipated for this product and retail channel and our cost structure expected to improve we remain confident in the long-term profitability of our Uncrustable business.
As you know we continue to invest in the capacity of our Scottsville facility including the new bakery which will support the expected growth for this product line.
The other key area in the segment that impacted year-over-year volume and segment profit comparisons was the previously announced exit of the private label coffee foodservice business.
The second quarter impact was in line with our expectations and remain on track to complete this transaction by the end of the calendar year.
Importantly liquid coffee concentrate the key product acquired from Sara Lee realized volume gains during the quarter including the initial contributions from the launch of Folgers liquid coffee in foodservice.
Related to this business during the second quarter both Smucker and D.E Master Blenders mutually exercised their right to terminate our multiyear innovation partnership due to a change in control of D.E Master Blenders.
We have a transition in place and the parties continue to collaborate as we look to reframe the partnership as we move ahead.
We do not anticipate any significant P&amp;L impact from exiting the innovation partnership.
Let me also comment on the results from the Cumberland distribution agreement that began in the first quarter along with the recent acquisition of Enray Inc.
We are pleased with the initial performance of both businesses which are modestly contributing to EPS results.
Specific to Enray a significant focus over the short term will be on the integration of the sales and distribution network.
We expect to complete this work by the end of the fiscal year allowing us to further push out on the potential for this business.
Finally within this segment as we entered the third quarter the profit impact from Uncrustables rationalization is expected to decelerate due to the seasonality of the business.
In addition the unfavorable manufacturing variances that impacted our second quarter results are not expected to repeat.
Combined with the strong fall bake anticipated in our Canadian business we expect the segment to achieve strong profit growth in the third quarter.
In closing with the events that negatively affected our second quarter results mostly behind us we are proceeding through the holiday season with robust brand-building activities in place across all of our businesses.
These include great new advertising product innovations and support behind our Olympics sponsorship.
In addition these initiatives will be complemented by our merchandising plans and pricing strategies all of which makes us optimistic for solid conclusion to this period.
I'll now turn the call over to Mark to discuss our consolidated results.
Thank you Vince and good morning everyone.
Net sales decreased $69 million or 4% in the quarter primarily reflecting a 4% reduction in net price realization.
Excluding the impact of the planned rationalizations in our foodservice business volume was down 1% in the quarter.
Favorable mix added 1 percentage point of growth as did acquisitions.
GAAP earnings per share were $1.46 this quarter and $1.36 in the second quarter of last year reflecting the ongoing decrease in restructuring costs.
Excluding special project costs which are defined in our press release earnings per share were $1.52 this quarter and $1.45 last year an increase of 5%.
Included in our EPS for the quarter was approximately $0.04 of temporary incremental cost.
Last year's results included a $10 million loss from unrealized mark-to-market adjustments on derivative contracts compared to a $2 million loss this year.
This contributed to gross profit excluding special project costs increasing $11 million or 2%.
Gross margin improved 220 basis points compared to the prior year.
Operating income declined 1% for the quarter as the gain in gross profit was more than offset by a 5% increase in SD&amp;A expenses reflecting a 10% increase in general and administrative expenses.
The majority of this 10% increase was the result of the prior year's costs being favorably impacted by our cost savings program.
Marketing spend was up 2% in the quarter.
We now expect marketing to be up in the mid to high single-digit percent range for the full year with much of the cost related to the Olympic sponsorship occurring in the back half of the year.
That said we're very pleased with where we stand to date with our Olympic marketing activities.
During the second quarter we entered into an interest rate swap related to $750 million of our long-term debt allowing us to effectively convert a portion of our fixed rate debt to variable while benefiting from favorable market conditions.
As a result we now anticipate full year net interest expense of nearly $80 million compared to our original projection of nearly $93 million.
A portion of the benefit was recognized during the second quarter.
Turning to cash flow.
Cash provided by operations was $86 million in the quarter compared to $183 million last year.
This decline primarily reflects a higher level of accounts receivable collections in last year's second quarter along with a decrease in certain accrued liability balances in the current year.
Current assets also increased reflecting a swing in the mark-to-market value of certain derivatives.
Capital expenditures were $47 million in the quarter.
This resulted in free cash flow of $39 million for the second quarter bringing the total to $85 million for the 6 months of 2014.
Due to anticipated shift in timing related to certain capital projects we expect CapEx for the year in a range from $250 million to $270 million based on project start dates.
Our full year free cash flow target remains $600 million with a significant amount of the full year estimate being realized in the third quarter.
Let me conclude our prepared comments by updating the full year sales and EPS outlook.
We continue to expect volume for our U.S.
Retail segments to increase approximately 2% over the prior year with volume for International Foodservice and Natural Foods expected to be down in the mid-single digit percent range resulting from the planned business rationalizations.
We expect 2014 net sales will decrease approximately 2% from the prior year compared to our recent guidance of being down 1%.
The lower guidance is driven in large part by our reduced outlook for K-Cups second quarter sales coming in short of expectations and the impact of foreign exchange.
We are maintaining our outlook for non-GAAP income per share in the range of $5.72 to $5.82.
The range now reflects the benefits of the interest rate swap offset by slightly lower expectations at the operating income level.
We anticipate essentially all the back half EPS growth will fall into the third quarter with EPS for the fourth quarter expected to be relatively flat compared to the record fourth quarter in the prior year.
In closing let me reiterate that we're confident in our ability to deliver another year of earnings growth.
With that we will open the call up to your questions.
Operator can you please queue up the first question? [Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Farha Aslam with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> When we look at the Canadian Thanksgiving that's already occurred I think you really sold into that Thanksgiving.
And then as you enter this fall bake could you describe to us the competitive environment and where you think Smucker's is doing particularly well and where you think that the competitive pressure is more difficult? Sure.
Farha Steve Oakland.
We did start off great and it's interesting because this year our Canadian Thanksgiving shipped mostly at the end of our first quarter and then our Christmas shipments in Canada are going to ship early here in our third quarter.
So a couple of key events with Canada's largest retailer on our canned milk business and our Robin Hood Flour business are all set and ready to ship here in the third quarter.
So we think shares and quite frankly sell through for Canadian fall bake had been great.
They just sort of jumped over the second quarter.
They hit the first quarter and they're heading now in the third quarter.
Farha Paul Wagstaff here.
Just from the U.S.
retail perspective on fall bake we're actually optimistic on how things are going so far.
Our pricing is better this year than it was last year.
The oil business continues to do well.
We're in one of our key retailers on the bake center so we feel good about that.
We have a lot of new items that we've launched in the baking side and those seem to be going -- doing very well.
So overall we feel good about our merchandising in place for fall bake.
Farha this is Mark Smucker.
I'll chime in.
Basically I think we feel very good.
Again it comes back to the merchandising activities and the price points that we've got in place through the fall period.
And I think we're very well positioned and our share results are decent.
And so I think even looking at some of the shorter periods we're feeling very good about the next couple months.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And my follow-up is as of I believe the last quarter you said that the decline in coffee costs wasn't significant enough for you to take another pricing cut but you'd pass along the savings to consumers via promotions.
Coffee costs have continued to decline.
Do you still plan to keep price points on shelf and just promote or do you anticipate a need for a decline in coffee costs on shelf? Farha this is Mark Smucker again.
I guess I'll frame it in.
I think you said it very well yourself.
As we've looked and we've talked about this the last couple quarters the green coffee costs have come down reasonably significantly but also gradually.
And so as a result rather than waiting for some of the costs to cross what we would consider our key thresholds to take a meaningful more broad list price decline we have chosen in the sphere of transparency to invest in promotional spending to get to those key price points through this period.
And normally I -- we wouldn't comment on any of our future pricing actions.
But I think that as we've said we're very well positioned where we are today.
And next we'll go to David Driscoll of Citi.
Research Division</strong> You had an interesting comment in your press release the benefit -- I just want to read it -- the benefit of lower commodity cost has provided us with the flexibility to further support our value proposition.
Can you just expand on that and just talk about -- a little bit about price volume elasticity? How favorable do you see this going forward? And then maybe just a specific comment about consumer foods related to lower input costs.
David this is Vince Byrd.
The comment specifically is if you go back a couple years ago when our commodity costs were rising I think at that time we were reaching price points that were probably beyond some consumers' reach as well as our gaps were growing significantly.
And again about a little over 1.5 years ago we really tried to work on closing those gaps leaning into pricing and make sure we're doing a better job of managing those and hence why we believe our U.S.
retail branded volume was up 2% for the quarter and basically year-to-date.
And so it is all about managing and passing on those costs so that we can reach those consumers where maybe they had not been able to afford some of our product offerings in the past.
And then I think Paul has already spoken to but he can speak to a number of his categories.
Yes David Paul Wagstaff here.
And looking at the consumer foods area as Vince mentioned we did lean into a lot of -- into pricing on some of our key categories.
So for example we took pricing down on peanut butter back in January of last year.
We leaned into that ahead of some of the commodity cost decline.
We're just going to -- we're anticipating on peanuts.
We did the same thing for fruit spreads leaning into that.
And then also on oils we've been more aggressive on the pricing and getting ahead of that commodity cost decline that we've seen overall.
So we feel as Vince mentioned we're very well positioned where our pricing is today and the commodity costs are getting back to the more normalized position relative where our cost is.
Research Division</strong> One follow-up on fall bake.
So I think I understood the Canadian piece of it.
But in the U.S.
piece of the fall bake story was there a shift of some of the shipments from second quarter into the third quarter? Not a whole lot frankly.
We see most of that staying within the second quarter.
So there'll be some bleed over into the third quarter but primarily the second quarter is where we anticipate it.
We'll take our next question from Robert Moskow with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was just looking at cash flow and it's down significantly from last year.
And I just wanted to know how you're thinking about cash flow for the balance of the year.
Is this going to be a down year? And why would that be if -- since commodities are down quite a bit I would've thought that the working capital would be a benefit to cash flow.
It's Mark Belgya.
Understand the question.
I think there's a couple things.
In terms of the cash flow for the year free cash flow for the year we're still staying with our $600 million.
And at the beginning of the year we explained that that was down from last year and that was due to an increase in our CapEx spending.
Specific to the commodities what we saw last year in the second quarter is we were facing a situation with our coffee canisters supplier where we actually were running very thin on finished good inventories and actually were also running a little thinner that we'd like on peanut butter.
So we saw this big benefit in the second quarter of inventories being below what we would say our normal run rate levels.
So we're back to where we would -- or are much more comfortable from a service level.
And so some of what you have seen in the cost savings side if you will coming from lower commodity costs have been offset in the volume side as we've rebuilt these inventories.
But the big picture I think is is that we're still holding to the free cash flow amount of $600 million.
We're still holding to our target that we put out for 2017 of $850 million.
And I think as we might have commented on the last quarter last 2 calls we still think there's some opportunity to pick up in working capital and we'll continue to work on that on a go-forward basis.
Couple things.
This is Richard.
Just to let you know we're looking very closely we always do at working capital.
And we're going to continue to make sure that it's the right levels.
And so we have a number of initiatives to make sure we keep that at the -- where we want it to be.
So as we go forward I think we're going to be scrubbing that a little harder.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Maybe a quick follow-up since it's my first call so I'll take advantage.
On the K-Cup guidance coming down what do you think your next steps will be with relation to Keurig? I understand they're coming out with a new system next year.
Will you develop capsules or pods that are adaptable to it? And as you look into fiscal '15 do you think you can reaccelerate and get closer to a growth rate that's similar to the growth of that category? Okay.
Robert this is Mark Smucker.
Thanks for the question.
First of all let me just comment on the dynamic of the current environment in the category which is that as you know many unlicensed participants have impacted the share of all of the licensed participants in the category.
And a lot of that is generated by just the trials that the consumer is looking at new products that there is some pipeline fill of some of those unlicensed brands getting new distribution.
And so we are not surprised by that dynamic but I guess we were -- obviously our results were below where we would expect them to be.
Going forward we do still highly value the relationship with Green Mountain.
And any new innovations that they would bear to market we would participate in and that would be our assumption.
So whether it's any new machine or whatever it is that they're thinking about we would be confident that we would be participating in that.
And then further I think we're not going to get back to probably the growth levels that we had seen.
Even this quarter if you recall our prior year comp was almost double.
And so we are coming off of a very big comp.
But as you look forward the combination of our brand support the strength of our Folgers brand the fact that we're launching 3 new items our participation in these new channels including an imminent Millstone brand relaunch all of those things coupled with the collaboration and participation in Green Mountain system I think gives us confidence that we're going to continue to lead in the category.
And now we'll go to Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask about competition in the non-K-Cup part of the coffee segment maybe breaking apart mainstream coffee from the premium segment? It looks as though some of the competitors have got maybe a little bit more aggressive on pricing on the premium side.
And I'm curious about what you're seeing in competitive dynamics in mainstream as well.
Alexia this is Mark Smucker again.
Thanks again for the question.
Actually we're feeling very good as well about our roast and ground business.
In the mainstream segment really the areas that have – you've seen some of the declines both in private label and in our opening price point offerings which is driving of course consumers back to the core branded business.
Our share trends x K-Cup are actually pretty solid.
And although in the period we didn't grow quite as much of the category we were up over the prior quarter so the Q1 numbers and the very short 4-week period gives us some hope as well that our pricing and merchandising strategies are right.
So I think it is a competitive segment.
We feel we're very well positioned.
And then on the premium side I think it's just as good if not better of a story.
Just on Dunkin' we're up 11% on Dunkin'.
And so that again validates our merchandising and pricing strategy.
It's a noisy space right now but we feel confident in the number of brands we have and the different tiers that we're doing very well and will continue to.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And a quick follow-up on the foodservice business I know it's smaller but do you anticipate getting back to profit growth in that segment by the fourth quarter when you anniversary some of those exits or is it a longer-term issue? Alexia Steve.
Actually I think we'll see some in the third quarter.
Much of what we saw both the Uncrustable startup if you look back at last year we had a huge Uncrustable quarter in the second quarter last year.
So the seasonal nature of that the fact that we announced it to our customers in the third quarter that business started to drop off.
So we've got a much bigger hump to climb on -- or a much smaller excuse me hill to climb on the Uncrustable in the quarter.
We've got the results from both the Orrville startup which quite frankly hit us in the early part of the second quarter the operating rates and the end of the quarter and early in this quarter look great.
So we feel like our foodservice business will bounce back in the third quarter actually.
And just before we go to the next question this is Vince Byrd I think we need to try to clarify David's question relative to any potential shift between the second third quarter as it relates to the holidays.
As we all know there's one less week between Thanksgiving and Christmas this year.
But to Paul's point there was not a significant shift in our products between the second and what we anticipate for the third quarter because a lot of those merchandising programs were basically set or pulled in by the retailer sort of consistent with last year.
So not a significant shift between our shipments this year compared to the prior year.
Thank you.
Okay.
Next we'll go to Chris Growe with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just had a question for you in relation to -- there's been a wider practice across the industry from the retailers of reducing inventory levels.
We've seen it sporadically from other food companies.
So I just was just curious if you saw any change in inventory levels in some of your key businesses? It sounds like to your point there Vince there was no real change in shipments around seasonal merchandise but I'm curious overall in inventory levels at retail if those have changed.
Yes.
Chris this is Vince.
And although we have seen that historically we did not see that occur in this particular quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just had a question and maybe a question to Mark about the gross margin.
And you've been talking about a more aggressive level of gross margin increase maybe as much as 250 basis points.
And so I wanted to understand if that was still a good number to use.
If you said that I'm sorry I missed it.
And then in relation to that just the phasing of input costs across the second half of the year and how that could influence say Q3 versus Q4 if there's anything unique to the gross margin performance in those 2 quarters? Yes.
Chris this is Mark.
In terms of the 250 basis points that still is a good number or growth rate to consider.
I guess I would just point out in the spirit of transparency it is a combination of the sales going up -- down 2% versus the 1% so a lower top line number and then somewhat an offsetting profit number.
But the overall gross profit margin growth is 250 basis points.
In terms of the cost there's nothing significantly different.
I mean I think as Mark mentioned earlier the commodity costs in coffee have gradually come down.
And then in peanuts where we're obviously realizing the lower costs.
So between the Q3 and the Q4 costs alone aren't having a significant impact one versus the other quarter.
But that said and just to reiterate one of the scripted comments is our third quarter will be the driver of the last 2 quarters.
Next we'll go to Thilo Wrede with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> First question I have for you was more of a housekeeping question.
Are you still expecting to increase your marketing spend 10% this year? And also with the trans fat decision at the FDA does that have any impact on your R&amp;D spend going forward to get these trans fats out of your products? Yes this is Mark Belgya.
Again I think we might have mentioned it earlier but we're going to come in probably mid to upper single digits on the marketing for the year which obviously will put a significant amount in the second half but we're going to be just a little bit lower.
But we're really pleased in particular around our Olympic spend to date and the advertising and marketing activities associated with that.
So even though we're going to be down probably a couple of percentage points from the 10% we still feel very good about the marketing support across all lines of business.
Thilo this is Paul Wagstaff.
And on the PHO question the FDA announcement no that's not going to have an impact on our R&amp;D spending.
We've been working on getting those -- that product that ingredient out of our products for years now and so it's really no impact to us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the other question I had was this was the second time that you lowered the top line outlook for the year.
How does that jive with the comment that the consumer is resilient? I'm a little bit surprised by your description of the consumer there.
Well this is Richard.
A couple of things.
We have -- if you look at our core categories we're actually up in tonnage.
But the biggest impact on our top line is just the deflation that we've taken this past year.
And so we are taking down 1 percentage point from what we originally said last time.
But most -- majority of that is the deflation and where we stand in pricing and promotions as opposed to our business is very solid.
This is Mark Belgya again.
And just I guess specific to the company then of course we've taken down our K-Cups some so that's affecting us and sort of setting the resiliency of the consumer side.
And now we'll take a question from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Question on cash flow.
I was surprised to see that you didn't repurchase any shares this quarter.
Can you talk about the rationale behind that? Sure Jason.
This is Mark Belgya.
Well I think as we are consistently around buybacks would say a couple things.
One is we sort of target roughly a couple percentage points a year which is roughly 2 million shares.
We bought back 1.5 million in the first quarter.
And quite candidly our stock price hit an all-time record in the second quarter.
So we do look at it and then -- as it relates to the stock price.
But I think certainly then as we've put in our cash flow we've spent over $100 million in our acquisitions of Enray and Silocaf so there were some specific cash needs as well during the quarter.
Research Division</strong> M&amp;A ambitions.
I think coming out of back-to-school a lot of people were speculating that you could be more active in M&amp;A going forward.
Can you talk about your appetite today and maybe what you're seeing out there in the potential deal flow? Well this is Richard.
And you're right we have -- we continue to have an appetite.
As you know acquisitions are lumpy.
We have a number of brands out there that we'd be very interested in.
We've made a number of contacts which we have all the time kind of keep our lines in the water.
But none of those have hit except for Enray in the last quarter.
But that was actually a very nice acquisition.
It's an enabling acquisition and it's actually doing very well for us.
But I think as we go forward you're going to see especially at interest rates this low more acquisition activity and probably higher prices.
So we want to make sure that we are doing the right acquisitions at the right price.
So there have been a few that we've walked away from because the prices have been too high.
And we think a great brand at a bad price is still a bad acquisition.
So we're going to continue to be in the market out there.
And I think in the next hopefully 18 months or so we'll have something else in our portfolio.
And we'll take our next question from Jonathan Feeney with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about price elasticity particularly one would think with the -- certainly you saw the reversal of those significant increases in peanut butter pricing result in major category recovery.
Are -- now that coffee prices are coming down is that stimulating the category and should we expect that to continue to? And just an update on that phenomenon in peanut butter which is still -- you're still growing Jif but at a little bit of deceleration sequentially.
Yes.
John this is Paul Wagstaff.
No from a peanut pricing perspective again as I mentioned earlier we leaned into pricing trying to get the price right on shelf which we believe we have.
It's the right thing to do.
We feel comfortable where pricing is right now and the results and the volume that we've seen the growth we've seen on the Jif business is solid.
And so going forward we don't anticipate taking any more pricing action in the near term.
And Jonathan this is Mark Smucker just on coffee.
I think you need to separate K-Cups just for a minute and think about the core category.
I think generally speaking there is a little bit of stimulation in the -- just in volume because of the pricing being more in line with some of the historical as well as the fact that because the costs have moderated gradually competition is more or less on a level playing field we believe and that creates healthy competition and growth.
And this is Vince and maybe one other data point that might help you think about the elasticities.
But as we go back to those price gaps that we referred to earlier if you look over the latest share of market report basically private label is actually down in 7 of the 9 categories that we participate.
So again an indication that those gaps and those elasticities are working in this case in our favor as the brand leader.
Research Division</strong> I get you.
But I guess as a follow-up you saw some significant volume headwinds right as you had -- were forced to take prices up.
And I'm just thinking here particularly of the peanut butter category.
So are you -- it looks to me like you're not really back to your sort of high watermark there nor is the category.
So I guess maybe the question is from this point on does the category just grow at a population level? Or are we still in this kind of volume recovery mode where a lot of the stock up activity you'd expect in this category that came to a complete halt and reversed itself say 18 months ago is now kind of happening a little bit more at the margin and we've seen -- you a saw very strong result? Are we now back to like below single digit category outlook from that perspective? Well Jonathan Paul here again.
I think peanut butter from a long-term growth perspective it's been pretty much in single-digit growth for a while now.
It's low -- we grew 2% roughly.
Again keep in mind we had a downsize of our 18 ounce to 16 ounce so that impacted what you're seeing in some of the volume numbers even though cases were up closer to 8%.
But bottom line we're also having a lot of new products enter the category from our perspective and I think those are doing well.
So we should see some continued growth on the peanut butter category and we feel comfortable with the growth level that we've seen so far.
And now we'll move on and take a question with Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I may have missed this in your prepared remarks.
Can you help us quantify the impact of the one-time investments in Uncrustables and fruit spread plants in the quarter? Yes Ken it's Mark Belgya.
We did say that it's about $0.04 and that would be manufacturing-related overhead absorption-related activities at those facilities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on green coffee costs Starbucks -- or a representative from Starbucks recently said they think green coffee costs were close to their [indiscernible] because they're below the cost of some farmers' production.
I'm curious to what extent perhaps I guess you share that view? Sure Ken.
It's Mark Smucker.
It is true.
Let me start with the -- your latter comment first.
It is true that coffee production costs in several countries are below.
I would say that's maybe not true across the board but that is the case.
And then you may have seen there have been -- some governments have actually provided some support for farmers.
Obviously we continue to work on our sustainability initiatives as well a few of which definitely helped some of the farmers in some targeted areas.
So I think that is true.
As to whether the coffee is at its low point I think our view is that it is probably relatively close.
And having said that there are -- there's a lot of coffee out there.
Just fundamentally there's just a lot of arabica in the market.
There's a reasonable amount of robustas out there.
And so we would -- our view would be that relatively in this range within a $0.20 range or so we're going to probably remain for some time.
And now we'll go to Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
I'd like to revisit from a different perspective the idea of consumer resiliency and these declining prices in some of your categories.
What are you seeing and what can you manage in terms of the customer trading up as overall cost structure comes down say in coffee or the nut butters and how's that expected to influence your margin over the next 12 months? Chuck this is Vince.
I'll start and look to the team to provide color.
But I think if you -- a very good example is when we had the run up of coffee costs 2 years ago when arabica topped off at over $3 we saw a significant shift in our roast and ground business from the core holders to what we would call our opening price points.
So again that was a shift to a lower-cost offering for our consumer.
At that time we're asking our consumers to pay over $14 for a can of Folgers where the OPP might have been say 75% or 50% of that.
Today with the decline in the pricing that Mark spoke to earlier we're able to get those core prices back down and consumers can now I'll say trade back up to or get back to where they were previously to some of the core Red Can and our OPP for example would be down right now compared to where it was 2 years ago.
So I think that's a great example of where the consumer has responded to our offerings.
The good news is we have offerings in all those spaces for them to make their choices.
So with that I don't know if -- I'll look to the team to see if they have any more additional to add.
But again I think I will say one other thing on peanut butter.
We were actually very pleased that the overall category where the volume remained 2 years ago when we had the run-up of the peanut costs and that -- we would suggest that that was resilient at that point.
So now that we have some of the price declines that Paul spoke to we feel very good that the category is going to continue to grow in the future.
Yes.
I might just add and this is kind of tangent to what Vince said.
But we've had probably more deflation in our company than a number of other food companies because our 2 largest categories coffee and peanut butter had huge declines in the commodity costs which we reflected.
And so maybe some other food companies haven't had as many of their commodity costs come down.
It shows up more in our top line than it might in other companies but I think we've protected it on the bottom line.
Do you need to use [ph] promotion and new product intros to nudge the customer up into call it more upscale products? This is Vince.
Well sure I mean all of our new products -- so we're not necessarily trying to trade them up.
In some cases we may be trying to give them an offering that fills the void that we may not have within the marketplace so we look at all ends of the spectrum.
But I think back to your original question Chuck about why we feel going forward if you look at where we grew some of our core items where we didn't grow were very conscious decisions about managing the bottom line like on a promotional strategy around our cake or we just chose not to meet a very competitive pricing such as flour during the period.
So the teams are clearly focused on driving the volume and managing our price point and promotional strategy is the key to that.
We're also seeing -- this is Richard again.
We're also seeing Chuck that there's a group of consumers out there that are willing to buy the premium gourmet products.
And this is the split between kind of the haves and the have-nots.
And so higher price products continue to do well and specialty products continue to do well and then the value products continue to do well and we participate in both and want to have the right price points for all those levels of consumers.
So we're seeing growth in both those -- both categories.
And next we'll go to Akshay Jagdale.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk a little bit about the current dynamics in the single serve space and how you might -- how you see it playing out and sort of what you're hearing from the retailer because I mean you are the largest coffee company in the United States so I assume you get a very good understanding even from the retailer as to what's going to happen.
So if I could ask it in like 3 parts.
One is shelf space overall single serve.
What do you expect the shelf space allocation to go to from where we are today? I mean is it still going to grow and perhaps by how much? Secondly on share.
Share largely is a function of trial and repeat and it seems like the repeat rates for licensed brands are much higher much higher than the non-licensed brands.
One is that correct? And two will that result in share gains over a period of time once consumers revert to just trying what they love and trust? And then the third thing is just on pricing.
I mean how do you view the pricing dynamic to play out in single serve? Okay Akshay.
Mark Smucker here.
Thanks for the question.
So let me start with your second question first which is around share.
You're absolutely right.
We mentioned that earlier.
We do have data that supports repeat rates on licensed brands being above those of the unlicensed.
We do believe there will be a settling out.
So what I mean by that is the shelf space is -- it depends on the customer or the region.
There are some customers that probably have much less shelf space allocated and there's a few customers that have actually acknowledged that they have gone maybe too far and have actually allocated too much shelf space.
So I can't answer how much shelf space is right generally because every store is a different size and so forth.
But I think you are seeing customers continuing to experiment with that set as well as consumers continuing to experiment with the new brands out there.
So I believe -- we believe that as we go forward there will be some settling out and we do believe that our share although we may not get a share that is equivalent to a roast and ground share we do believe that over the next year or 2 with this settling out and the strength of our brands some of the things that I spoke about earlier that we will be able to maintain and even come back to some share growth.
But right now there's just so much noise in the category that we think that we have to sort of weather through this key period and we'll see what happens in the springtime.
And then finally on pricing the unlicensed folks have come in generally speaking where we expected them to and the price gaps that we are seeing in the marketplace are equal to or better than what we're seeing in the roast and ground space.
So again still feeling optimistic about the category.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up.
I mean what are -- in terms of where this -- in the dynamics of somewhat being different than you expect obviously your sales numbers are a little bit lower.
Is it just that the trial meaning the number of non-licensed participants coming on to the shelf has been much larger than you expected or is it something else? If you could explain that.
And what's the retailer thinking? I mean how do you think -- what are the retailers telling you in terms of the licensed versus non-licensed dynamic? Well I think that quite frankly we did expect a very large influx of unlicensed folks.
I don't think that was surprising to us.
I think maybe what we underestimated a little bit was the amount of noise and trial generation that exists in the marketplace.
I think the retailer quite frankly is still learning as well.
I don't -- I think I sort of already spoke to that but I think I really couldn't add anything to that other than it's a period of trial and we're all learning.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last one on M&amp;A.
Related to your Sara Lee foodservice acquisition can you just give us a snapshot and time right now? There's a lot of moving parts that the private label business you were going to exit it right away then you held onto some and now you're exiting again.
Where -- when do we expect the $0.10 in accretion from that business? And can you just give us a snapshot as to the mix of that business today and what it was when you bought it? This is Steve Oakland.
Let me comment on the mix of the business today first of all.
First of all the jewel in that business was its liquid concentrate coffee business right under the Douwe Egberts brand.
And that business where -- what I'm pleased to say is is up year-to-date in volume.
Obviously the net sales are down a little bit because of the pricing dynamics we've talked about on coffee.
But we feel that business is in great shape and we have just this summer launched the Folgers brand.
As you know although Douwe Egberts a well-recognized global brand was not a well-recognized North American brand.
So we brought Folgers liquid into the foodservice space.
Quite frankly and I think we talked about this a year or so ago along with that business we felt it was our really responsibility to our customer base to transition that private label business properly as Sara Lee went away.
And so yes that's taken us longer.
The largest customer quite frankly of that business is on a calendar year contract which ends here in December.
There was a dedicated sales force with that business that has been adjusted somewhat and has been reorganized into our core foodservice business and those people will now be selling our core foodservice and branded items.
That all happened in October November.
So we feel good about both the cost structure and the core business.
We feel comfortable that we'll -- we worked our way through the private label transition.
And then the margins from there I guess I'll look to Mark as far as how we want to announce the timing of those.
Yes.
Akshay it's Mark.
We continue to make progress as Steve suggested.
I mean we lost some profit quite candidly through the exit of some of these business.
I think initially it was viewed as pretty much a 0 margin business on the private label.
But as we've talked there was some interconnectivity with some of the other products.
Obviously there's some overhead that's got hung up.
So that's being drawn out.
But I think the liquid business is good business.
We will see that profit increase going forward.
Clearly as we roll out the Folgers brand we'll see growth.
So we'll probably be more specific of the timing as we move through the year into next fiscal but it certainly is tracking more or less in line with where we expected originally.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next go to Jon Andersen with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I have a question.
I know it's a small acquisition but as it relates to Enray how are you thinking about the gluten-free food opportunity? Is this a niche? Is it a kind of a longer-term trend? And then I guess as it relates to Enray what are your ambitions kind of in that space and how might that manifest itself with how you approach Enray going forward? Jon I'll comment first and then maybe Paul can comment on our core businesses with gluten-free.
Enray is a wonderful complement to the scale we have in natural foods.
Our Knudsen and Santa Cruz Organic brands are some of the largest shelf stable businesses in the natural organic space but they are mature categories.
And so to bolt onto that team a smaller but high-growth enabling business to allow us to do sort of what we've done in U.S.
retail which is become a center-of-the-store branded player of natural foods much more so we thought was a great opportunity.
Much of that business today is quinoa but they have a lineup of wonderful ancient grains and they have a technology on sprouting those grains that we think is unique in North America.
And many cultures as well as many people who shop in the natural food space understand the benefits of sprouted grains and what you can do with those.
So we think there's a lot of runway.
It's a very immature product in its life cycle going from a very limited number of customers in the natural space to the broad natural sections across U.S.
retail.
So we think that our resources and our footprint can take advantage of Enray's great product mix broad product mix and take those across the retail space.
So that's the exciting part.
Now with regard to gluten-free in general the Canadian business probably is the farthest ahead and we've launched a number of Robin Hood products in the gluten-free area and they're doing really well.
And then maybe I'll turn it over to Paul.
But honestly gluten-free is a trend in the United States.
Enray will help us and enable that.
But quite frankly it's a business that's going to grow quickly in the natural food space.
John this is Paul.
And just to add onto what Steve said clearly the gluten-free trend is continuing to grow and we are -- we've been watching it very closely and we've been -- our R&amp;D team has been focused on how do we come out with new items that are gluten-free.
So I would expect you would see some Pillsbury products and some of our other brands to have gluten-free items or offerings in the near term.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And one quick follow-up on -- just on the Uncrustables business at retail.
I think that was up 25% in volume terms in the quarter.
Can you talk a little bit about just kind of what you're seeing there in terms of the strength? Is it new products? Is it new distribution? And how do you think about piece of the Uncrustables franchise growing going forward? Sure John.
Paul here again.
And Uncrustables you're right grew about 25% and it's kind of 2 parts.
First is we did have some distribution gains that -- they are contributing to the high number -- high sales growth number but that product continues to do well.
And over the previous year we just haven't had the capacity to really push out on that business in the retail side.
And with the exiting of the school business as well as the new bakery that we -- that Steve's team put in the Scottsville facility we're now in the position to be able to really push that product going forward.
So will we see 25% growth rate? I'm not sure about that but we'll definitely see likely double-digit growth going forward.
And next we'll go to John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you can speak a little bit to the fundamentals in jams and jellies right now? It looks like the category volumes have been soft since mid-summer pricing is coming down.
So how are you thinking about the competitive dynamics here and maybe the potential for a more promotional environment going forward? John this is Paul again here.
A couple things in jam and jelly.
First off when you look at our what we call our strawberry and varieties or our core traditional business we actually grew that around 4% this year.
We were up 5% on our traditional business and our squeezed fruit spread business was up 7%.
So some of the core business in what we call our jam jelly or JJP category actually has done pretty well.
A couple of the areas that we're struggling with or down a little bit further one is on grape jelly which is an area that we really don't focus on as much because it's a no-profit business for us or a low-margin business.
And so we always try to monitor and make sure we get enough of that but not too much so to speak.
The other area that we're struggling a little bit with is the better-for-you category so that would be our sugar-free our low sugar and our Simply Fruit businesses and that has struggled here for I'd say the last year or 2 couple years.
And we're working on trying to bring some new news to that category and hopefully with the Olympics we think that's one area that's going to bring some new news to the total Smucker jam jelly category.
But we also launched a new product in our Smucker's Natural that has -- we've seen some nice growth with and that's a new product so we're going to hopefully see that continue to pick up some share growth and continue to contribute to the category.
So overall we feel like we have some good momentum on fruit spreads and we'd hope to see that continue.
And our last question will come from David Driscoll with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Mark I just wanted to ask you a little bit more about the premium end of the K-Cup market.
You mentioned in one of your responses the imminent relaunch of Millstone.
But could you number one just say roughly speaking what's your company's share of the premium K-Cup market? And then talk a little bit about this Millstone relaunch.
Why is this going to work? What's the real hook for the consumer given that there's such strong brands in that premium end of the business? David this is Mark Smucker.
Quite frankly we don't look at the K-Cup category in the tiers yet because they're not clearly enough defined in order to do that.
They're developing so I guess I should say that to lead off.
And then just with Millstone we think that it is possible to reposition that brand as a more premium.
So if there is an upper tier in roast and ground we think that's where Millstone plays.
I do think it remains to be seen how the tiers in the K-Cup category separate out.
And we can't even slice share in that -- in those segments yet.
Research Division</strong> And is there any update you might be able to give us on Dunkin' Donuts and the ability to sell K-Cups through that partnership? Right now it's only the bag.
So is there any movement here to actually get Dunkin' in the K-Cup? David this is Vince.
The answer is we continue to have dialogue with Dunkin' but there's nothing to report.
No that was our last question.
So thank you all for joining us today and we look forward to delivering our results for the year.
Appreciate it.
Ladies and gentlemen if you wish to access the rebroadcast after this live call you may do so by dialing 1 (888) 203-1112 or (719) 457-0820 with a passcode of 9167122.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the J.M.
Smucker Company's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) I will now turn the conference over to Sonal Robinson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Ms.
Robinson.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our third quarter earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
On the call with me are Richard Smucker Chief Executive Officer; Vince Byrd President and Chief Operating Officer; Mark Belgya Chief Financial Officer; Steve Oakland President International Foodservice and Natural Foods; Mark Smucker President US Retail Coffee; and Paul Wagstaff President US Retail Consumer Foods.
Following this brief introduction Richard will comment on highlights and the challenges we faced in the quarter.
Vince will then provide an update on the dynamics occurring within our business segments.
And Mark will close with additional comments on our financial results for the quarter and our updated outlook for the full year.
Before I turn the call over to Richard let me remind you that we may make forward-looking statements during the call that reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates and actual results may differ materially due to risks and uncertainties.
I encourage you to read the full disclosure statement in the press release concerning forward-looking statements.
Additionally please note the company uses non-GAAP results for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.
Discussion on non-GAAP information is detailed in our press release located on our new corporate website at jmsmucker.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the website.
If you have any follow-up questions or comments after today's call do not hesitate to contact me or Mark Belgya.
Let me now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Sonal.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
My commentary today will focus on three key messages: first a solid performance in the quarter; second the change in our outlook for the year; and finally that the fundamentals of business remain sound and that our expectations for continued earnings growth beyond the fourth quarter are positive.
When we last spoke to you in November we outlined our plans for the holiday quarter including our expectation for a solid merchandising support and the significant increase in third quarter earnings per share over the prior year.
As we reported this morning we're pleased to have delivered another quarter of record earnings per share.
We had a good fall bake and holiday season and we're pleased with the quality of merchandising achieved.
Non-GAAP EPS increased by 13% to $1.66.
While these results were strong they were below our expectations.
Before I discuss the key highlights for the quarter let me also comment on our revised outlook for the year which was included in our press release this morning.
We adjusted non-GAAP earnings per share guidance for the fiscal year from the prior range of $5.72 to $5.82 to the range revised to $5.55 to $5.60 forcing a soft fourth quarter against the strong prior year where earnings per share were up 17% over the prior year last year.
Let me comment on two factors that softened our EPS growth for the third quarter and are contributing to our adjustment of annual guidance.
First weaker than expected topline results within our peanut butter and fruit spreads businesses.
As you may recall we have previously indicated that peanut butter was expected to be a key growth driver for our total company results this quarter.
Vince will elaborate on why this fell short of our high expectations.
Second profitability within the foodservice hot beverage business that we acquired from Sara Lee was lower than expected reflecting an on-planned adjustment of approximately $10 million in our trade spending accrual balance.
Additionally as we enter our fourth quarter our outlook incorporates that our US Retail volume is expected to fall short of a very strong fourth quarter achieved in the prior year.
Additionally competitive pricing in a number of our key categories is expected to continue.
And lastly while our business in Canada had a very strong third quarter we continue to face foreign currency headwinds.
We view these issues as near-term challenges.
And in our 117 year history we've faced similar challenges before.
We have the ability to adjust quickly where needed while still maintaining a long-term view of the business.
I want to emphasize that our business fundamentals remain strong and our prospects for ongoing earnings growth continues.
Our confidence is supported by aggressive innovation plans strong brand support and a more stable raw material cost environment and the strategic deployment of our strong cash flows.
For these reasons we're confident that our company is well positioned for growth in the coming year.
Let me now return to the third quarter and provide an overview of the highlights.
We are pleased with the volume growth in our largest business Coffee and the performance of our Folgers and Dunkin' Donuts coffee brands which both had a very strong quarter.
In addition Crisco enjoyed a very strong holiday merchandising season as did our overall Canadian baking portfolio.
The company sales were impacted by volume planned product rationalization and competitive pricing.
These factors combined with our pricing actions and recent trade activities resulted in lower net sales compared to the prior year.
Innovation remained key to our performance behind contributions from recently launched items such as Dunkin' Donuts Bakery Coffee Series Jif Whips and new varieties of Pillsbury baking products.
Our seasonal business for Dunkin' Donuts Coffee and Pillsbury baking continues to be a real strength for us.
For the current fiscal year we have achieved our target of introducing 100 new products and we're excited about our initiatives planned for fiscal 2015 some of which Vince will preview in a few minutes.
To further support our brands we continue to maintain a consistent ongoing advertising presence.
We're actively engaged with consumers as we speak.
In connection with our Olympics sponsorship of Team USA new television advertising digital and media support and in-store merchandising.
Consumers continue to demonstrate their excitement and our involvement with Team USA and retailers have provided exceptional merchandising support.
With the fall bake and holiday season complete we saw a strong cash generation from operations during the quarter.
While we anticipate full year cash from operations to come in slightly lower than originally planned we believe our fiscal 2014 free cash flow target of $600 million is still achievable aided by constant shift in timing for certain capital spending.
As the company continues to generate significant cash flow levels we remain committed to utilizing this cash to enhance shareholder value.
While we've achieved our target or repurchasing 2% of our shares annually each year we're giving strong consideration to continuing repurchasing outstanding shares under the current Board authorization.
Let me close my comments by reinforcing that we are confident in our ability to navigate and address the current short-term challenges we are facing while remain committed to the long-term growth goals of the company.
We acknowledge the outlook for the fourth quarter is down from our previous guidance and are working diligently to minimize the impact.
We believe we have the right strategy in place and will make the tactical adjustments as we go.
Our team is the best in the industry and we're confident in their ability to drive ongoing profitable growth.
With that I'll turn the call over to Vince for an update on our business segments.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
As Richard indicated we were encouraged by our results in a number of areas during the third quarter while other areas of our business were more challenged.
Let me provide some additional commentary on this performance as I discuss our three business segments.
Beginning with US Retail Coffee the momentum experienced in the first half of the year continued into the third quarter as volume in this segment grew 2%.
Highlights for the quarter included sound execution of our holiday marketing and merchandising plans including new advertisement for several brands of our portfolio; volume gains for the Folgers brand which grew 4% driven by roast and ground coffee; and for the Dunkin' Donuts brand which was up 8% behind growth in the base business; and contributions from innovation.
Share of market gains within both the mainstream and premium coffee segments for the latest 12-week IRI scan period.
And finally third quarter coffee segment profit grew 4% year-over-year.
Performance for our K-Cup business continued to be mixed as sales grew for the Folgers Gourmet Selections was offset by anticipated sharp declines with Millstone reflecting the continuation of the competitive dynamics discussed last quarter.
As a result we now anticipate full year K-Cup sales to be up slightly for 2014.
Looking forward we remain optimistic about the business over the long term with a number of initiatives expected to provide growth in fiscal 2015.
These include first commencing distribution of our K-Cup offerings in new channels including the dollar class of trade and the e-commerce channel.
Secondly introducing three new K-Cup varieties are continuing to provide marketing support to the platform and to our brands.
And thirdly continuing to expand our relationship with Green Mountain.
This includes participating in their latest innovation the next-generation brewer platform expected to launch later in the calendar year.
In addition during the quarter Green Mountain began marketing and selling Folgers Gourmet Selections K-Cups in the Foodservice channel under a distribution agreement further extending the brand's footprint.
Looking to the fourth quarter we anticipate the favorable benefit of green coffee cost year-over-year to continue albeit at a lower amount.
While costs are expected to decrease we anticipate segment profit will be down from the record level in the prior year due to the timing of our net price realization to cost that occurs from quarter-to-quarter and a softer volume outlook.
We continue to manage the business on an annual basis and these price to cost timing impacts are expected.
For the full fiscal year we expect to deliver a solid year and record coffee segment profit.
Let me conclude my coffee remarks with a brief update on the recent news in the commodity market.
As you are likely aware Arabica futures have climbed over 20% since the beginning of the calendar year.
While we do not comment on our specific hedge position we feel consummate in our ability to adjust pricing when warranted.
Let me shift to Consumer Foods where overall volume for the third quarter was flat and below our expectations driven by shortfalls in peanut butter and fruit spreads.
This was partially offset by the strong performance of our Crisco oils business along with volume gains for Pillsbury frostings.
Expanding on peanut butter although we faced a difficult comp of 17% growth for the Jif brand in last year's third quarter we were optimistic entering the period as a result of strong merchandising programs and better pricing versus the prior year.
Although we executed this plan we believe our competitors in the category maintained a temporary cost advantage and their adjusted frequency of merchandising were significantly greater than anticipated resulting in the number two brand regaining share they had lost in the prior year.
Ultimately this dynamic impacted our volume performance in the quarter.
We anticipate that pricing level of competitive activity will continue through the fourth quarter.
Yet given our expectation that we'll no longer have a peanut cost disadvantage versus our competitors as we enter the new fiscal year we expect to be well positioned to compete responsibly in fiscal 2015.
Additionally we remain optimistic about our brand building efforts behind Jif.
Innovation in particular continues to be a key contributor.
Jif Whips continued to perform well with 12-week ACV of 80% and strong repeat purchase rates.
Additionally during the quarter Jif Hazelnut was relaunched showcasing new packaging along with a new variety.
Both the Whips and Hazelnut product lines are being supported by robust marketing campaign including TV advertising.
Turning now to fruit spreads there are two key issues affecting our business and share trends.
First we faced a competitor that was dealing extensively to levels that were unprofitable for us and we chose not to meet them.
Secondly there is a segment of consumers that are shifting away from artificially-sweetened products that is impacting what we refer to as our better-for-you line of fruit spreads.
Reflecting this trend we are focused on ensuring we have the right product offerings to meet the needs of our consumers.
This is evidenced by our recent launch of Smucker's Natural Fruit Spreads and we are encouraged with early results of this offering.
Our innovation efforts include the opportunity to expand the Smucker's brand into categories beyond fruit spreads.
To that end we are excited to announce the launch of Smucker's Fruitables a new line of fruit pouches providing consumers a convenient and great casing on-the-go snack option.
This all-natural offering will be available in four blended fruit flavors with shipments beginning early next fiscal year.
I will conclude with a few comments on the International Foodservice and Natural Foods segment where the integration of a foodservice beverage business acquired from Sara Lee continued to have a significant impact on the segment results for the third quarter.
Let me address three key points related to this business.
First expanding on the $10 million adjustment that Richard spoke to during the last several months we transitioned the trade spending management activity and other back-office operations to our teams at Orrville.
The complexities inherent in the foodservice channel contracts and the transition in processes and systems acquired from Sara Lee all contributed to an under-accrual of certain trade liabilities.
Going forward we have addressed the underlying issues and do not expect further significant adjustment.
Secondly we finalized the planned exit of the private label coffee foodservice business during the quarter.
We're encouraged to have completed this transition allowing us to move forward with a focus on growing the branded roast and ground and the liquid coffee concentrate business.
Lastly we recognize that the profitability of this acquired business to date has fallen short of original expectations.
However with the integration and the rationalization activities now complete our teams are focused on ensuring this business meets its full potential.
As a result we anticipate profitability within the business will improve as we enter the new fiscal year.
Turning briefly to the rest of the segment a key highlight for the quarter was the strong sales and profit performance of our Canadian business with volume and market share gains achieved across nearly all categories in the portfolio.
Lastly within Natural Foods we remain pleased with the performance of the recently acquired Enray business including the truRoots brand and we look forward to completing the integration activities by the end of the fiscal year.
In summary we continue to navigate through a challenging operating environment and remain confident in our ability to do so all the while remain committed to our strategy and the key initiatives we have spoken to previously.
These include building our brand through investments in innovation and marketing including support behind our Olympics sponsorship improving our supply chain capitalizing on acquisitions and ultimately positioning the company for long-term growth.
I will now turn the call over to Mark to discuss our consolidated results.
Thank you Vince and good morning everyone.
Net sales decreased 6% in the quarter reflecting lower net price realization.
Excluding the impact of planned rationalization in our Foodservice business volume was slightly up in the quarter.
Acquisitions added 2 percentage points in growth while exchange rate and mix each reduced sales by 1%.
The weaker Canadian dollar will continue to negatively impact results in the fourth quarter and next fiscal year.
GAAP earnings per share were $1.59 this quarter and $1.42 in the third quarter of last year.
Excluding special project costs earnings per share were $1.66 this quarter and $1.47 last year an increase of 13%.
The growth in EPS was partially driven by gross profit which excluding special project cost increased $11 million or 2%.
And lower commodity costs were only partially offset by pricing.
This resulted in gross margin improving to 37.4% an increase of nearly 300 basis points over the prior year.
The positive impact of the lower tax rate a decrease in interest expense reflecting the company's interest rate swap and a reduction in average shares outstanding from a year ago all contributed to the year-over-year EPS growth for the quarter.
Turning to cash flow cash provided by operations were the strong $421 million in the quarter compared to $324 million last year.
The increase primarily reflected greater reduction in our overall inventory dollars during the quarter as it compared to the same period last year.
We're adjusting our 2014 CapEx estimate to $240 million from the previous range of $250 to $270 million.
This lower CapEx guidance reflects actual spending to date and the decision to defer spending of certain projects until next fiscal year.
Reflecting this shift in timing our initial projection for fiscal 2015 is to maintain CapEx at around $240 million level.
We will confirm this estimate in June during our year-end call.
While the current year projection is lower than the guidance we provided at the beginning of the year total CapEx spend over the two fiscal years is in line with our original expectations.
This CapEx guidance includes a revised estimate relating to expanding our Memphis facility to support peanut butter production.
The initial $70 million estimate increased to $90 million reflecting scope changes to the significance of project.
Free cash flow was $355 million for the third quarter bringing the total to $440 million for the first nine months of 2014.
As Richard indicated our full year free cash flow target remained at $600 million.
As of January 31 we had no borrowings outstanding against our revolving credit agreement.
Let me conclude our prepared comments by updating full year sales and EPS outlook.
We anticipate 2014 net sales will decrease approximately 5% from the prior year which equates to approximately 7% decline in fourth quarter.
This revised sales outlook reflects the impact of list price changes and other pricing levers to primarily reflect lower cost recognized throughout the year including coffee.
A note we took an 8% list price decrease in oils earlier this month.
US Retail volume declines were approximately 2% to 3% for the quarter due to strong prior year comps and expected competitive pricing in certain key categories.
Continued headwinds from foreign exchange in Canada were offset somewhat by sales contribution from [ph] active business.
From an SG&amp;A perspective we're actively managing our costs and now expect full year SG&amp;A to increase slightly less than the 4% increase realized in the first nine months of 2014.
Given our fourth quarter outlook and third quarter actual results we're adjusting our annual non-GAAP income per share guiding to a range of $5.55 to $5.60.
This range is based on approximately 105 million shares outstanding for the purpose of calculating annual EPS.
The range forces the fourth quarter EPS estimate below the prior year.
As a reminder the prior year's fourth quarter benefited from a number of factors including stronger than expected volume performance across our US Retail business favorable absorption of manufacturing overhead and lower tax rate.
Let me conclude reiterating the key points that Richard made at the beginning of our call.
We had a solid third quarter performance resulting significant year-over-year EPS growth.
Yet recognizing these results were below our aggressive expectations and anticipated soft fourth quarter we have lowered our full year outlook.
However our business fundamentals remain sound and we're optimistic as we look forward to fiscal 2015.
Specifically to this last point while we provide our 2015 guidance when we release our year-end results in June I would like to preview some of the key reasons for optimism as we head into the new year.
Recognizing the competitive environment and foreign exchange will remain headwinds we expect to benefit from the following: our robust innovation pipeline additional supply chain cost savings particularly related to our fruit spreads operations further reductions in our recognized peanut costs that will improve our competitive positioning.
The last thing is the product rationalization that significantly impacted our International Foodservice and Natural Foods segment and the full year impact from any 2014 share repurchase activities.
And as a reminder we should mention we will be looking at share repurchase opportunities.
We currently have approximately 2.8 million shares still outstanding under Board authorization.
We look forward to sharing more on these items during our year-end call as we will discuss our plans for delivering another year of earnings growth.
And with that we will open up the call to your questions.
So operator would you please queue up the first question.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
I guess first question has to do with the jam and jelly spread business.
I don't know if you listened to the McCormick call but they dominate their category in spice and seasonings and yet they've seen the consumer change where they're buying or maybe buying some alternative products in different parts of the store.
So is it kind of a somewhat similar situation for you that you've got aggressive competitors on the low end and that maybe the consumer changing a little bit on the higher end? Yeah from this perspective really there're a couple of things that are going on.
First off I would point out that our strawberry and variety products actually have had a very good year overall.
And so we've been pleased with their performance so far.
The great business which is really due to our competitive situation has not done as well.
We've seen some impact there due to competition.
It's really a better-for-you segment which includes some of the sugar-free options that we've struggled with the most and that kind of goes to your comments on the consumer taste and the consumer trends that are going away from artificially-sweetened products.
And so we are looking at ways to address that.
Some of the things we're doing to that end are the Uncrustables business which is a way for moms to give their kids the PB&amp;G sandwich that continues to do very well and it's up double-digit and we expect that to continue.
And then also we're in process of launching a Smucker's Fruitful product which is like an applesauce fruit-based product that we're seeing some nice trending upward with the consumers in that category is growing.
So I think we're looking at ways of how do we expand this market brand to meet some of the other consumer needs.
In coffee Vince I think you said that your market share over the last 12 weeks IRI was up.
And obviously your volume numbers were pretty decent in the business.
Can you explain why like Nielsen would show your share down? Is that the difference the single-serve K-Cup share losses I guess you experienced year-over-year? Eric my comments were that we gained share in roast and ground and premium and actually we gained share in this segment as well.
When you roll it all off though with K-Cups we did not gain share and that's just a matter of the math if you think about our share in the K-Cup and as that becomes a bigger piece of the pie.
We obviously don't have the same 33 share that we have on the rest of the business.
So it's becomes a math exercise to some degree.
But we did gain share in all other segments.
We'll go to our next question from Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Richard I think it was maybe about two years ago where you had expressed a belief that there would not be a race to the bottom with respect to promotional activity.
And I know you've got some specific challenges in businesses that you're addressing.
But would you say any of the recent competitive environments or some of the broader view that you see maybe just changed that view at all or not so much? I would say in general it's changed our view that much in certain categories specifically peanut butter.
Peanut cost came down significantly the last year or so.
We have gained a lot of market share doing that transition.
And because we had kind of higher peanut cost than some of our competitors during that time they took advantage of giving that back during the past couple of quarters.
And even though actually our peanut butter sales were up this year in terms of units they weren't up as much as we thought they were going to be and we lost some share to our competitor.
But in general it's competitive up there.
I can't say that it's not competitive.
And we're running a lot of promotions but if you look at all of our margins in the industry everybody's margin is up over the prior year because commodity costs have come down.
And I think most manufacturers have given some of that back in trade spending but not all of it.
So you'll see a higher trade spending because of that but margins are better overall.
With respect to share repurchase potential it's more a matter of clearing it with the Board and power that more than anything else I guess structural that would perhaps keep you from being more active in the marketplace given where the stock has come down to is that a fair assessment? Just to clarify the 2.8 million shares actually have been approved by the Board.
And so it's just a function of putting your program into places we so choose.
But there is no further authorization.
Now once we got that we would obviously have to go back to the Board.
But there is no limitations for 2.8 million shares.
We'll take our next question from Alexia Howard from Sanford Bernstein.
I think coming back to the peanut butter profitability you mentioned the temporary cost versus another player.
Can you just give us a little bit of a better idea about what that is or why that situation has arisen and how confident are you that that resolves in fiscal '15? Going back to a little bit of history on the peanut cost or peanut market we saw peanut cost go up significantly.
And one of the things that we do as being a large peanut buyer in the market is we went out helped the farmers the sellers to make sure that they had a supplier which was us buy peanuts.
And as we do that again we don't get into the details on how long our purchase will go out but we went out pretty long in that process.
And as the peanut cost came down we went out longer than most of our competitors.
And so as you look at trying to go in the marketplace and price your product based on what your cost is we were just longer than our competitors.
So that's what we're seeing right now in the third quarter.
We'll see that continue a little bit in the fourth quarter.
We also know our peanut percentages going forward and while I'm not going to give you the details on what those are or how long we do feel very confident that by first quarter we'll be getting into our lower cost peanuts that are very similar to what we believe our competitors are.
On the Foodservice side of the business or for that whole segment it sounded last quarter that you expected a rebound in profitability in that segment in the second half.
Clearly that's not come through this quarter.
Do you have any better visibility as to when that business should start to rebound year-over-year in terms of profitability? Yes we did expect that to be better.
And as both Richard and Vince detailed on the call we're disappointed in the transition difficulties we've had with the Sara Lee business.
But we're not disappointed in the strategic value of that business.
That business gave us a couple of things that gave us scale in Foodservice and it gave us a proprietary technology base to away-from-home coffee business.
So we're convinced those things can deliver what we thought.
We are frustrated that we're not there now.
I would say we will have some of that impact in the fourth quarter and we think that the next fiscal year we should see that business start to improve margins and profits.
And we'll go to David Driscoll with Citi.
Richard you said in the release that in the third quarter lower commodity costs were a net benefit to gross profits.
Overall given all your comments do you see this continuing on balance across the company? In general yes although we've been pretty stable at this point in time.
We don't expect them to drop much more.
Coffee is actually starting to get a jump as you know.
So I think we've hit the low point.
And now they're I would call them stable with the exception of coffee but we're in a pretty good market position on our coffee purchases.
Just to add a couple of other comments.
We mentioned that part of the fourth quarter results we accumulated favorable green costs throughout the year and we constantly talk about the timing of this recognition to costs versus price.
And so year-to-date we continue to recognize the overall favorable cost to pricing.
That will flip particularly in coffee in the fourth quarter and that is a key factor which is driving the fourth quarter results.
You made a relatively key statement here in saying that your guidance reduction in the fourth quarter does it overly negatively influences your thoughts for the next fiscal year et cetera.
But you make the statement in print in the release that lower fourth quarter volumes and a more competitive pricing environment in key categories.
I think the big challenge today for all of us on the outside is going to be to understand why those comments would be isolated to the fourth quarter and not something that would percolate into subsequent quarters.
Can you give us some thoughts on that? I guess I would go back to Mark Belgya's concluding remarks as we look at our innovation pipeline we have further supply chain savings.
We're lapping a lot of the Sara Lee integration is behind us.
We'll have the full year impact of the stock buyback.
And I will go back to cost because our cost structure as we go into the new fiscal year with the exception of coffee virtually across the board we'll have reductions in our overall mix of costs.
So we feel very good about what that will allow us to do and maybe be more competitive in certain areas.
But again we'll never be the lowest.
We have very strong brands.
We never feel that we need to be the lowest in the marketplace and that we'll selectively make decisions about where we spend those funds.
But we're very optimistic as we move into the new year.
And our next question will be from Jonathan Feeney with Janney.
When you look at the guidance reduction and really in the context of full year you gave us some factors but how much of it is the peanut butter shortfall how much of it is incremental K-Cup profitability just trying to give us a sense of just where you were beginning in Q3 and then the change in guidance? What segments of the business are the heaviest down and by what approximate magnitude? This is one of the things when we adjust guidance going in fourth quarter obviously forces to the fourth quarter.
But I think it's important to step back and look at where our expectations were at the end of third quarter.
So a big picture I would say roughly whatever number you're working with it's roughly $0.20 of guidance adjustment.
About half of that you can attribute to third quarter and half the fourth quarter.
When we spoke to you in the last quarter we were specifically [ph] citing that Consumer Foods and International Foodservice Natural Foods segments would drive the very strong third quarter.
As you heard this morning primarily between peanut butter and the adjustment in our Sara Lee business that really took away the earning.
Obviously if you add those back we'll be well on our way.
Now if you look at the fourth quarter then the key drivers if you're talking about coffee it shifted cost to price.
That's having a significant negative impact.
Following the quarter it's more heavily skewed in coffee.
We're continuing to be affected by FX.
The Canadian dollar leaked in significantly more than we had built into our plan in the October timeframe.
You're getting down to levels of debt to EBITDA here by market historical standards and you had a lot of success making acquisitions.
Can you comment about the acquisition environment and your priorities? And maybe failing that do you borrow and become more aggressive on the share repurchase side given the low interest rates? Well those are both things that we look at Jonathan.
Obviously on the acquisition side we've said this before we have a number of brands out there that we would love to acquire if they become available for sale.
We've been aggressive in pursuing those.
But those are like fishing.
You don't know if it's good.
As far as stock repurchase I think Mark mentioned back that we have some authorization available right now and we can utilize that if we so desire and we can go back to our Board and I think our Board will be supportive of making more investment in Smucker's.
So both of those we can pursue.
Our next question will be from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
First question is on coffee.
I know you're not ready to comment about '15 but you did make some comments on R&amp;D innovation et cetera.
Coffee has had a really strong year this year and is a big piece of the pie.
So can you just talk a little bit about the expanded relationship with Green Mountain and the new channels that you're entering in dollar and e-commerce? What has changed when did it change and what do you think the opportunity is there? And if you could just talk a little bit about what you think about the 2.0 benefit that was revealed that would be helpful.
First of all we do have a fair amount of innovation a mix of three new items coming into the market in this next fiscal year net.
Two of those are the Hispanic initiatives.
So we're hoping to support Green Mountain's Hispanic initiative in that sense.
So we are optimistic about that.
That's good.
And as you mentioned dollar and online channels we are very optimistic.
I wouldn't give specific numbers about those channels.
But essentially we are just now beginning to shift those channels and we are in the dollar channel a significant player.
And in the online channel we are a rapidly growing player.
And as you know K-Cups in the online channel are a big piece of their pie.
And so that would be clearly good for us.
As it relates to 2.0 obviously we're very excited to be involved in the new system.
And as you can imagine as we said last call we will participate in that system including all of the different pots or cups that it will offer.
And clearly I think the way we think about it is it validates our partnership with Green Mountain.
We are with a great partner and we're optimistic about that.
I think it's going to take some time and this is an aggression more of them as to how long the machine convergence takes and it's going to take some time.
But clearly it validates that we're with the right partner.
And then distribution in Foodservice that started this quarter and also the timing of when these changes or triggered and why? In the Foodservice market K-Cups do really well on a couple of segments in lodging and in office coffee.
And as you can imagine Green Mountain has a large install base in the organizations to support that.
So the opportunity to work with them to access that install base and to get our brands in front of those consumers in those venues makes sense.
We just thought it was a great opportunity.
It's just starting.
So I believe it's just starting in that space and it'll start this summer in Canada.
And we'll very excited about the opportunity but I would expect that to take a year or two to build.
I wanted to make sure we answered your first question.
In terms of innovation in coffee and coffee in general Mark and team have probably over 30 new items that will be launched next year.
He was specific to the K-Cup in talking about the two or three.
And then I think secondly I would just reinforce when you ask about the timing of these things we have a very sound relationship with Green Mountain and that agreement has continued to evolve since the day we signed it three or four years ago and only continues to get stronger as we evaluate opportunities to add value to their company our company and to consumers.
So I think our party movers are we still feel very comfortable with that relationship and it's getting better and stronger by the day.
And we'll go to our next question from Chris Growe with Stifel.
I think there was an earlier question about promotional spending.
And I'm just trying to understand maybe Richard just the view on the consumer and how they're reacting to some of those more aggressive promotional spending? Is it truly looking volumes and is it something that you may have to go down that road a little more heavily to try and fight against competitors? Obviously we want to make sure that we're priced properly and that we don't lose market share.
So when we need to we will meet competition.
And it's been a little more aggressive this fall bake.
But we haven't given up margin too much for doing that.
And so overall we feel pretty good where we are.
If you looked at our margins our margins are better than they were at the prior year.
But I think you find that true with most consumer food companies.
But it really goes by category.
I think peanut butter is probably one of the most competitive right now.
And that's because we've got some good competition in that area.
That being said our peanut butter volume is still up for the year.
So it's going to be competitive out there but it's not that much different than it has been historically.
And we do go through these cycles.
So this is not that unusual.
Just a quick second question on retail inventory levels? Kraft said their inventory levels were high for them at retail maybe even across the industry.
Are you seeing any change in the retail inventory levels maybe in the quarter or something you anticipate? No I can't say that we have seen a significant increase in our customers' inventory levels.
We'll take our next question from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
I guess I wanted to drill down a little bit on roast and ground.
You said you had some market share gains ex-K-Cup.
Where do you think you got those gains from? Maxwell House has been marketing more aggressively and I think that that was a concern that a lot of people had.
Do you feel like you're offending them all in your bigger roast and ground? Really we grew share across as Vince said all of our key segments the mainstream premium and instant.
But as it relates typically to roast and ground we have actually been out-taking the category.
And so the largest share gains from both us and our number one competitor really have come from private label.
And I think that is largely a function of just the price compression in the market that all of our prices are closer together and consumers can't afford to trade up.
The Foodservice business that you bought from Sara Lee it doesn't sound like you have any plans to have an asset right down or anything like that.
Do you think it can come back? Can you talk a little bit from the topline perspective like what your customers are telling you about this technology that you have that's proprietary about the benefits of scale? From a customer standpoint are you getting positive feedback? Do you have any new business wins you can talk about in Foodservice? If you remember this summer we started to brand the Folgers and that momentum is just picking up.
In fact we had the best quarter that we've had since we've owned the liquid coffee business in the third quarter.
Unfortunately liquid coffee is only half of that business.
And the roast and ground and the private label all the things that came with the deal the Sara Lee business.
It had been a difficult transition.
So it's really two different businesses.
Roast and ground has been a very good transition.
Yes there're systems and processes and things that came from Sara Lee that we've had to put on the Smucker's systems.
But the core liquid coffee business has been up.
It's growing a little faster now.
And we think the Folgers brand now that there is a front-of-house brand in that we have an opportunity.
And we believe we're going to bring a new piece of equipment to market this summer.
So we'll have our first new piece of news equipment-wise this summer.
So all of those things together make us feel pretty good about it.
So that's what's driving your optimism for fiscal '15 to get back to growth? Yeah that's correct.
And some of the charts that you saw a little bit of chart is on the business that was discontinued.
Our next question will come from Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
If you comment a little more broadly on private label.
You talked about a few seconds ago in the ground business but across the rest of your categories including specifically K-Cup.
I guess when you think about the K-Cup segment let me talk more in terms of the unlicensed player.
So as talked last quarter we had seen growth there.
We expected to see if that noise has continued in the category.
Again I think it's important to point out that we do have some data that would indicate that licensed players actually get higher repeat purchase rates.
So that bodes well.
But clearly as we look at K-Cup we have some pretty consistent that private label whether it's licensed or unlicensed could still get into that 10% to 15% range of the category which is typical for most of our categories.
Private label hasn't been much of a factor.
Obviously it's still a decent player but there's more of a branded competition that we've been seeing there.
On the oil side of the business again I think we've done very well there and private label is still very large in that category.
And then on the baking side private label really doesn't have much of a presence there.
So overall it's more of focusing on branded competition than on private label.
And I guess they remain in peanut butter as it has been.
Mark a question for you in that trade accrual adjustment.
Do you see all of it flow through the Foodservice segment or International Foodservice segment or was that a cash or non-cash item? How do you think about that? It was all through Internationa Foodservice and National Foods and it would be because these are promotional programs that are offered to our customer base.
They affect the ultimate selling price.
It is cash.
And we'll take our next question from Farha Aslam with Stephens Inc.
Inc</strong> Two questions the first regarding innovation.
One of your reasons for confidence for next year is your innovation pipeline.
Could you share with us kind of how much innovation contributes annually in general and in particular next year how incremental and how much can we expect from innovation? Just the big picture as we said when you look at our organic growth rate within our base the key driver is our target for a long time 1% and we see that.
And even last year I believe I remember the numbers the way we need to find new products which are products that came out of a three-year window.
It made up 10% of our total sales last year.
So that percentage of contribution continue to grow and we feel that will continue.
I believe it was in the scripted comments we have 100 new products for this year.
It was on top of 80 or so of the prior year and that's across the brand portfolio.
So that's going to continue.
That's the kind of metrics that you can think about as we move forward.
And I think you'll see key contributions coming next year which we've touched on a few already this morning.
Inc</strong> And then in terms of supply chain the other reason for your confidence that you're not going to have some of the supply chain integration issues.
What's the total cost do you think that will flow through sort of these supply chain integration issues that are not extraordinary but are impacting earnings? I would say Farha that from the new Orrville facility that comes online so we'll get the full year benefit of that.
And I think what we said publicly that's probably about a $10 million contribution.
And then as Steve discussed some of the costs that we've incurred in terms of the Sara Lee transition will go away.
I don't think we're really in a position to talk about that.
But you can kind of get a sense it's going to three quarters.
There is some opportunity there.
And then there is just the ongoing focus on our cost structure.
We realize the importance of that in today's food space and although we don't have any projects to talk about it's just ongoing efforts just to look at that.
The other announcement that we've made of course is with the acquisition of the Café Bustelo later in fiscal '15 we'll be rationalizing that facility.
And although the benefit will probably be minimal in '15 it will provide some benefit going forward.
Inc</strong> And did you have the Scottsville facility any kind of incremental cost there that was through the P&amp;L? We have invested heavily in Scottsville.
And for the first time we hope this summer we'll have capacity ahead of demand significantly.
So there may be a little bit of overhead weighing on that but it's going to allow us to promote aggressively in both Foodservice and Retail something we've not ever really been able to do in that business.
And so we're excited to see if we can fill that capacity quickly.
But we've expanded the bakery this last year.
We're including new production lines in the next several months.
And that overhead may weigh on that business a little bit in the first three quarters of the year but I would hope we fill it up by the end of the year.
And we'll take our next question from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
I've got a couple of questions for Mark Smucker on coffee.
First in terms of pricing as you mentioned you've seen coffee sort of down a little bit.
As we flash forward and think about the pricing environment clearly K-Cups are much bigger portion of the category today running up close to 40% of ground coffee the competitive dynamics in that set would suggest that price growth in that category is unlikely even in a rising commodity environment.
What does this mean for implications on pricing on roast and ground? First of all I would just remind you that the K-Cup segment if you think about it versus roast and ground the cost component that is coffee is very small.
Now clearly it has an impact.
You can't discount it but there is a number of other packaging components and what have you.
I think you're correct that pricing in that segment moving up is less likely but I also think if you go back to what our friends at Green Mountain said on their call the pricing still seems to be rational.
And even though there has been a little more promotional activity more frequent and so forth that segment obviously continues to grow and we should see the tiering that exists there.
We have some data that would suggest our brands do not support us tiering and we can maintain our price levels at where they're at.
So we feel very good about where we are.
And then as you know in roast and ground clearly we always try to be transparent with our customers and we will move on pricing when we need to.
That said the environment in the roast and ground I don't know that we're ready to commit to saying that the current levels at Arabic are sustained.
There has been some fundamental driven with the giants in Brazil but there's also been a fair amount of speculation in that market.
And so I think we need to wait and see what the coffee markets are going to do.
It's been difficult to get a good feel as to the underlying growth rates of your coffee business given all the price volatility et cetera.
But if I step back and look at the full five-year cycle it looks like your volume CAGR has been around negative-1%.
This quarter we saw an end to (inaudible) of your coffee business is a category that's away from you? And if not then why? Are you saying minus-1% for our business and minus-1% for the category? Minus-1% for your compound volume growth rate over five years? No I would say that minus-1% for the roast and ground in the total category is probably fair.
On our business though there have been some fluctuations.
But of late we've been growing it.
And I would say that I don't think our numbers would match what you're showing.
I think we can continue to grow at and we have continued to actually grow our volume in the past few quarters given all the efforts we put on outpacing that category.
But overall I think we're positioned well to continue to grow in total on coffee.
And I would add that obviously our premium segment has grown fairly significantly with our relationship with Dunkin' Donuts and we acquired it.
It's under a $50 million and I think it's $350 million or something north of that now.
So again our strategy of participating in all segments has proven to be a good one.
Next we'll go to Thilo Wrede with Jefferies.
I had two questions for you and I apologize for making the first one a multi-part question.
But I think the last time you talked about SG&amp;A spending you gave us 8% growth guidance.
Now you talked it down to 4%.
In my math it's about a 25% benefit to EPS.
So the question is is it correct? And what does it mean for your marketing spending in the fourth quarter especially with the Olympics? Just to clarify I think the 4% was representing the increase not a percent of sales.
8% growth versus now 4% growth? Or did I get my numbers wrong there? In part that reduction is marketing-driven.
We did have much higher expectations from a higher marketing spend.
A lot of that reduction is probably due to that.
We've also focused on the last six months obviously with the guidance to look upon controllable spending to bring that down as well.
We can get offline with the specifics of the breakdown.
I think from a marketing overall perspective we feel very good that we've actually had very good execution in our marketing plans the TV advertising that you've hopefully you've seen of the Olympics so far with the Jif Smucker's and Crisco on the Folgers brand.
Again we feel very pleased with positioning and where we've seen.
We've seen and heard some very good mother-in-law research from consumers that they really enjoyed the spots.
So we think it's doing its job and we're pleased with how we've been able to get those in the marketplace and the timing.
And I think on coffee as well same thing.
We have been able to do everything that we felt we needed to do this year and support our brands.
It is true that some of the marketing dollars not a lot has transitioned to more targeted in-store marketing activities that we count at trade.
And just to tie that off our total marketing spending was still up 6% over prior year which has been a good increase for us.
And then the other question I have was on the Smucker's Fruitful product.
I've seen that's an interesting line extension for Smucker's.
My question is I think Smucker's jams by definition are also highly sweetened food products.
So if this product presumably is supposed to be sold to mothers who feed this to their children does this image of highly sweetened food product does that create an obstacle for this product to be successful when you consider what the applesauce products that are out there how they look in terms of added sugar? With Fruitful product actually the Smucker's brand we've done some really good research on how the consumers see this market brand.
And they do see it as a food product.
And we do have obviously with our jam and jelly-based sweetened products come with sugar some with corn syrup and some with artificial sweeteners.
But again we feel that this product that we're launching is that the only ingredient on the label is just fruits.
So for example on the apple version on that it is just apples.
There's nothing that's included.
We don't have any other sweetener that's included.
So we feel that actually does tie in with what we see the consumers just from a research perspective are seeing and giving the Smucker's brand credibility.
So we're actually confident that Fruitful will do well and the consumers see it in the right way.
And the consumers really the main thing that they look at the Smucker's brand is trust more than anything else.
They trust the Smucker's brand.
So that far outweighs the fact that they may see it also in the sweetened product.
But trust is the most important attribute.
Our next question will be from John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
Just in terms of the peanut butter business just to clarify have you increased price promotion or reduced prices since you spoke to us last quarter or is it your intent to continue the volume decline? And do you believe that this cost will improve? We've not taken any of the price declines since the last time we've talked.
In fact we felt very good that our price is better than what it was last year.
Our promotion and our merchandising actually was better than last year.
The competitive nature of that took place in the third quarter going into the fourth quarter.
But overall we feel good with where our pricing is for the time being.
And again our volume has actually increased overall.
And so it just hasn't increased as much as we'd like to see.
In terms of the coffee I think you've expressed that part of K-Cups recovery from here is predicated on shake-out of the unlicensed brand.
But I think we're now hearing a pretty large private little player is bringing new capacity on line (inaudible) distribution of building.
So I guess my question is do you still see the unlicensed shake-out is going to do good and if it doesn't how much that impacts your K-Cup acceleration in fiscal 2015? Yeah there will be some shake-out.
Clearly some of the customers have acknowledged a probably too much space in the stores for K-Cups.
So there's clearly going to be some rationalization.
And the branded players the licensed players rather could feel some impact of that.
That said I think our confidence goes back to the strength of the Folgers brand.
Vince mentioned in his script that Millstone has been impacted.
We're working actively to restate that brand.
Again we got a new brand in [ph] Rustello coming into the system.
And then just overall our Folgers branded K-Cup continues to grow.
And we'll take our next question from David Driscoll with Citi.
Mark this is also for you on coffee.
When you look at the traditional ground and roast in the red can the darn thing is just incredibly iconic.
You see it from the moment you walk into the aisle.
When you look at the K-Cup boxes the Folgers K-Cup box it's not actually red it's red yellow it's got purple on it.
It doesn't have the same iconic nature that the red can has? And I'm just curious about your thoughts on shopability and what your customers would tell you? Could you just be a little bit more specific as to what you're going to do to revitalize Millstone? You're right.
The red can is iconic.
Our core red can business this quarter has been fantastic.
I think some of the growth has been tempered by opening price points.
But as you pointed out the packaging is a little different on K-Cup.
So two responses.
One is that technically our Folgers Gourmet Selections brand.
And so the graphics are a little different.
They're supposed to be a little more upscale.
That said we're going through another packaging iteration with K-Cups right now.
And I think you're going to see several SKUs that are going to convert to core Folgers and you're going to see the other SKUs that are going to have a stronger Folgers presence on shelves.
And then as it relates to your Millstone question we are restaging and repackaging the entire line.
As you know we've gotten out of the bulk business or are just about out of the bulk business.
And so that will be primarily a bagged coffee and K-Cup offering much more premium packaging so it is a packaging but it is also the support that we're going to be providing for that brand going into the next fiscal year that gives us confidence.
And we'll go to our follow-up question from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
I want to ask on coffee as well.
So have you seen the 2.0 machine and why are you excited about 2.0? What do you think it does to the market opportunity? Clearly our teams are very engaged with Green Mountain and they are already working on formulating the products that will go into that 2.0 machine.
So we're doing small pots.
We're going to participate in that.
That's what we're very pleased about.
And then some of the interactive technology and the ability for that machine to only brew licensed cups is obviously very exciting.
I will go back to my prior comment and I think it's going to take some time for that system to come on-stream in a significant way.
But for all the reasons I mentioned we're very excited about it.
And again this partnership with Green Mountain is better than ever and continues to expand.
I would just like to go back just to confirm one number that was on an earlier question about the SG&amp;A.
It has gone from 8% to 4% and as the year-over-year increase and as I suggested most of it's driven by the marketing and also the favorable spending in our G&amp;A areas.
You mentioned a little bit about retailer reactions.
Can you talk specifically about what retailers are telling you? Obviously it's a dynamic category.
So what has happened and more recently a lot more is happening with the lawsuit from Treehouse? Can you just summarize the reaction you're seeing and maybe comment a little further on what you said about shelf space? And looks like you're saying some larger is going to reduce the shelf space and it might impact licensed here is why licensed more than non-licensed but could you just talk a little about the reaction from retailers? I don't think first of all that it's going to impact licensed more than unlicensed.
I don't think that is true.
I think clearly that quality and cost advantage that the licensed players enjoy are a benefit to them.
I can't give you specifics customers that are talking about this.
But as you travel or visiting stores I think you'll notice that there's a difference from one grocery store to the next in terms of how much space they have allocated to the K-Cup section.
So I just think that as there is a lot of brands out there some of the specific items may not be there in a year.
And so I think we just need to wait that out and continue to support our brands and trust that our brands hold.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the conference call back to management to conclude.
I would like to thank everybody for being on the call today.
We think that we obviously gave different guidance for the quarter but feel very strong about that we're going to start the new fiscal year and look forward to answering your questions as the queries go on.
Thank you very much.
And that concludes today's conference call.
Ladies and gentlemen if you wish to access the rebroadcast after this live call you may do so by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 with a passcode of 8975321.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to The J.M.
Smucker Company's Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all participants are in a listen-only mode.
At the request of the company we will open the conference up for question and answers after the presentation.
Please limit yourself to two initial questions during the Q&amp;A session and re-queue if you then additional questions.
I will now turn the conference over to Sonal Robinson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Ms.
Robinson.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
On the call with me are Richard Smucker Chief Executive Officer; Vince Byrd President and Chief Operating Officer; Mark Belgya Chief Financial Officer; Steve Oakland President - International Foodservice and Natural Foods; Mark Smucker President U.S.
Retail Coffee; and Paul Smucker Wagstaff President - U.S.
Retail Consumer Foods.
Our prepared comments this morning will be organized as follows.
Richard will begin with an overview of our fiscal 2014 performance and initial thoughts as we head into 2015.
Vince will then provide additional color on our fourth quarter results and Mark will close with a few comments on 2014 cash flow followed by a discussion on our outlook for 2015.
Before I turn the call over to Richard let me remind you that we may make forward-looking statements during this call that reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates and actual results may differ materially due to risks and uncertainties.
I encourage you to read the full disclosure statement in the press release concerning forward-looking statements.
Additionally please note that company uses non-GAAP results for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.
Discussion on non-GAAP information is detailed in our press release located on our new corporate website at jmsmucker.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the website.
Finally I would like to share that this will be my last earnings call serving in an investor relations capacity as I will be assuming a new role within Smucker.
It has truly been a pleasure working with all of you.
Should you have any follow-up questions or comments after today's call please continue to reach out to me over the next few weeks as I transition my responsibilities to [Aaron] a current mother of our finance team.
Let me now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Sonal.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
We are pleased to have concluded another successful year for the company.
As we overcame a number of challenges to deliver our 13<sup>th</sup> consecutive year of non-GAAP earnings per share growth.
Let me begin by providing a few highlights for 2014.
First volume gains for the year were achieved in both our U.S.
retail segments.
In Coffee the Folgers brand grew 3% driven by mainstream roast and ground.
The Dunkin' Donuts brand continued its strong momentum with volume up 7%.
Within Consumer Foods our largest brands Jif and Smucker's grew volume 2% while key categories including Crisco oils and Pillsbury frostings were also up.
Planned business rationalizations in our International Foodservice and Natural Foods segment impacted total company results.
Overall lower net price realization in our two largest categories of coffee and peanut butter primarily attributed to the pass-through of favorable commodity cost and resulted in a net sales decline of 5% for the year.
Second our strong innovation pipeline enabled us to launch over 100 new items this year spanning our key brands and categories including items such as Jif Whips Dunkin' Donuts Bakery Series new varieties of K-Cups and exciting flavors of Pillsbury mixes and frostings.
Looking back we launched more than 250 items over the past three years which contributed over $425 million or approximately 8% of net sales in 2014.
Third brand building efforts included our inaugural sponsorship of the U.S.
Olympic team.
Our analysis confirmed that our activation around the participating Smucker's Folgers Jif and Uncrustables brands not only resonated with our core consumers but as expected expanding our reach with millennial and other consumers garnering over a 1 billion impressions and relationship key retailers strengthened as we partnered with them for shopper marketing implementation.
Activities around our sponsorship of the 2016 Summer Games are underway applying learning gain through this initial effort.
Fourth cash from operations allowed us to execute on all four components of our cash deployment strategy.
To that end in 2014 we completed the enabling acquisition of Enray and its truRoots brand providing further growth opportunities for our natural foods business and we invested $280 million in capital expenditures including capacity expansion projects at our Scottsville Kentucky and Toledo Ohio facilities.
We completed the new fruit spreads plant in Orrville Ohio and started construction of our peanut butter facility in Memphis Tennessee.
We also increased the annual dividend paid by per share by 11% representing our 12<sup>th</sup> consecutive year of dividend growth and continued payments of dividends for 55 year since we went public repurchased nearly 5% of our shares utilizing approximately $500 million in cash.
Finally we were able to realize record non-GAAP earnings per share of $5.64 an increase of 5%.
Our 2014 results were achieved despite challenges in the current operating environment that included a sluggish economy heightened competitive activity in several key categories and foreign exchange headwinds.
While these challenges are expected to continue into the new fiscal year history demonstrates our ability to manage near-term issues while continuing to be position the business for long-term success which is why we remain confident that 2015 will represent another year of profitable growth.
Mark will provide details on our guidance for the year but before he does I will briefly summarize the key areas of focus for 2015.
These include furthering our brand support with continued innovation.
We anticipate launching over 225 new items this fiscal year capitalizing on growing opportunities within the digital social media and e-commerce space continuing to support supply chain and growth initiatives including expanding the operational footprint for the Jif brand responding to consumers' needs for transparency of information and the desire or simple ingredients and clean labels lastly focusing on cash flow generation to support our cash deployment strategy.
In summary we were pleased with our 2014 performance.
Our results would not be possible without our employees' perseverance and commitment to aggressively pursuing new opportunities for growth.
As always we thank them for their efforts.
Looking ahead we remain confident in our long-term strategy in the strength of our brands and our ability to deliver ongoing profitable growth year-after-year.
With that I will now turn the call over to Vince to provide additional commentary on our fourth quarter performance.
Thank you Richard and good morning everyone.
We delivered a stronger than anticipated earnings per share result for the fourth quarter primarily due to higher than expected volume in our U.S.
retail segments managing our SG&amp;A expenses and the benefits of one-time non-operating items and share repurchases.
This was achieved while continuing to manage many of the same challenges discussed on our last call.
My comments will provide additional commentary on the quarter as we overview our three business segments.
Beginning with U.S.
Retail Coffee we achieved an eighth consecutive quarter of year-over-year volume growth despite lapping a strong period prior year comp.
Volume gains at mainstream roast and ground coffee led to the Folgers brand being up 1%.
Dunkin' Donuts volume also increased 1% coming on of a 29% volume comparison in the prior year's fourth quarter.
Pricing actions taken in the quarter to reflect lower green coffee cost recognized earlier in the year accounted for the net sales decrease.
The results of our K-Cup business have exceeded our overall expectations since we entered the market in fiscal 2011.
This year this business fell short of expectations reflecting the continuation of a competitive dynamics discussed previously however we remain pleased with the volume growth we experience on Folgers Gourmet Selections K-Cup which were up 10% in 2014.
This was mostly offset by significant declines for the Millstone branded varieties.
As we start the new fiscal year we remain optimistic about the overall K-Cup business for several reasons including our partnership with Keurig Green Mountain which remained strong as evidenced by our recently amended agreement the introduction of three new varieties including our initial launch of Café Bustelo and K-Cups.
The restaging of a few existing Folgers Gourmet Selections items to the iconic Folgers brand name the expansion of our K-Cup business into new channels and the launch of the new Keurig 2.0 system.
Given the rapidly changing dynamics in the short-term we expect her K-Cups to achieve modest volume growth in 2015.
Pricing investments are expected to limit year-over-year sales growth and combined with higher costs are expected to cause margins in our K-Cup business be far below the overall segment average in 2015.
Our focus in coffee remains on competing and growing all key segments.
Turning to coffee costs and segment profit overall we are pleased with the 6% segment profit growth achieved for the full-year driven by higher volume and the price to cost relationship during the fiscal year.
We continue to manage the business with an annual perspective and the price to cost timing impact have and will continue to occur from quarter-to-quarter.
As noted during our last call fourth quarter segment profit declined from the record prior-year level primarily due to timing of the net price realization versus cost.
Our ability to effectively manage this business through periods of significant commodity inflation or deflation has enabled us to deliver segment profit growth each year since acquiring the business and we expect to continue growth in 2015.
Earlier this week we announced a 9% price increase on the majority of the coffee portfolio reflecting sustained increases in green coffee cost.
Lastly within coffee we expect to complete the consolidation of our Miami coffee operation into our New Orleans footprint later this year.
We anticipate modest cost savings from this transition mostly beginning in fiscal 2016.
Shifting to Consumer Foods the segment had a strong finish with fourth quarter volume up 3% and segment profit growth of 6%.
Looking at our key categories peanut butter volume was comparable to the strong prior-year fourth quarter.
While we realized somewhat lower peanut cost we believe our competitors maintained their temporary cost advantage during the quarter resulting in continued competitive activity.
As we enter the new fiscal year we believe we are no longer at a cost disadvantage and our peanut butter business is positioned to compete responsively.
Our optimism going into the year is further supported by the expected contributions from innovation.
We look for momentum to continue with Jif Whips and we are introducing Jif to Go a convenient snacking option which pairs our popular Jif to Go product with pretzels.
While peanut butter is expected to be the key contributor to segment profit for the Consumer Foods in 2015 profitability will be somewhat impacted by overhead costs related to the capacity expansion in our peanut butter facilities.
Our fruit spreads business continued to be affected by the factors discussed on our last call.
Our focus remains on growing our fruit spread business through innovation while also extending the reach of the Smucker's brand into new categories.
To that end we are pleased with the initial performance of Smucker's Fruitables and all-natural line of fruit pouches.
Volume for Smucker's Uncrustables frozen sandwiches grew 23% in the quarter completing a second consecutive year of U.S.
retail volume growth in excess of 20%.
While growth rates are expected to moderate slightly we anticipate another strong year in 2015 particularly given our expanded manufacturing capacity.
For our overall PB&amp;J business we have solid programs in place for the upcoming back-to-school promotional period and expect to be well positioned to compete in these categories.
Lastly within this segment our baking and oils business had a solid year and we look forward to continued growth driven by innovation.
Turning to International Foodservice and Natural Foods a weaker than anticipated fourth quarter concluded a challenging year for the segment primarily in our food service business.
The three key drivers of segment profit underperformance in the quarter were first increased rate spending in Foodservice including an additional $7 million adjustment this quarter.
Second while our Canadian business had a solid quarter and year the weaker Canadian dollar remained a headwind.
Third the lapping of our Foodservice beverage and Uncrustable business rationalization continue to impact top and bottom-line performance.
As we move into fiscal 2015 we recognize some of the headwinds will persist yet overall remain optimistic about this segment and expect to achieve sales and segment profit growth for the year.
Looking at some of the key opportunities and challenges beginning in Foodservice we acknowledge the coffee trade spending will be higher than originally estimated when we purchased the business impacting run rate profitability.
Cost saving opportunities to mitigate this impact are being pursued.
Also while lapping the recent business rationalization is expected to reduce the 2015 net sales by approximately $40 million we are encouraged to have the related activities behind us.
This allows us to focus on growing both branded roast and ground and the liquid coffee concentrate business along with our portion-control and other Foodservice categories.
Turning to our Canadian business based on our current outlook we expect currency will negatively impact profitability in 2015.
This primarily reflects approximately $15 million of higher cost of goods sold expected next year as a significant portion of our Canadian products are sourced from the U.S.
However the underlying business remained strong and we look forward to build on volume and marketing share gains achieved across most of our categories in our Canadian portfolio in '14.
Lastly within Natural Foods the Enray acquisition and its truRoots brand provides entry into the rapidly expanding ancient grains category.
Behind our scale and go-to-market capabilities we are gaining new distribution and anticipate strong growth for truRoots and our overall Natural Foods business in 2015.
In summary we are encouraged with the overall performance for the year and are positive about the initiative lined up for the new fiscal year.
While we expect the challenging operating environment to continue we remain confident in our team's ability to navigate through this environment and deliver another year of growth.
I will now turn the call over to Mark.
Thank you Vince and good morning everyone.
I will begin with a few comments on the 2014 cash flow.
Cash provided by operations was $856 million for the full year.
Free cash flow of $577 million fell short of our target of $600 million due to higher CapEx in the fourth quarter as the substantial work commenced on the Jif capacity expansion project and the consolidation of our Miami coffee operation.
This resulted in a full year CapEx spend of $280 million.
At year-end we had nearly $250 million borrowed against our revolving credit agreement.
Proceeds were used to fund over $280 million in fourth-quarter share purchases.
We will further borrow against the revolver in the first half of fiscal 2015 as we repaid $100 million in long-term debt earlier this week in accordance with the required maturity and to fund seasonal working capital needs.
Excluding any acquisition or share purchases we expect to pay down revolver borrowings by the end of the fiscal year.
Turning to our 2015 outlook we anticipate volume growth and commodity-driven pricing actions to result in net sales growth.
This along with incremental productivity savings is expected to offset higher commodity costs and marketing investments resulting in operating income growth with all three segments expected to deliver increases in segment profit.
Combined with lower interest expense and reduced share count we expect non-GAAP EPS in the range of $5.95 to $6.05 for the year.
Excluding amortization expense $100 million or $0.65 per share the corresponding guidance will be $6.60 to $6.70.
The combination of segment profit growth in fact lower interest expense and reduce your account primarily benefit the first two quarters we expect EPS growth to be mostly front-half loaded.
Specific to the year we expect net sales growth of nearly 5%.
This includes the impact of the coffee price increases announced earlier this week and modest volume growth anticipated in U.S.
retail segments.
In International Foodservice and Natural Foods volume growth in the core business is expected to be more than offset by the impact of lapping in 2014 business rationalizations.
These numbers also include 125 new items for next year to be introduced not 225.
Overall commodity costs are expected to increase the significantly higher costs on coffee offset declines in peanuts oils and sweeteners.
The weakness in the Canadian dollar results are expected to result in higher cost of goods sold.
Incremental supply chain savings of nearly $10 million are expected reflecting the consolidation of our fruit spreads operations in Orrville.
This would bring the total run rate savings associated with our supply chain initiatives to just over $60 million for 2015.
While this is slightly behind our original schedule we continue to anticipate total annual savings of $70 million when fully realized.
For SG&amp;A we anticipate an increase of 4% with all major components increasing at approximately the same rate.
The low operating profit net interest expense of $65 million to $70 million is anticipated including interests associated with short-term borrowings and the full year benefit of the rate swap entered into last year.
This range reflects our current expectations of interest rates.
The effective tax rate is expected to be in line with our 2014 rate of 33.5%.
Lastly weighted-average count approximately 102 million shares was used for our guidance reflecting current shares outstanding.
The 2015 guidance range reflects our change in treatment for gains and losses on certain derivative contract beginning in the first quarter of this fiscal year as referenced in this morning's press release.
Later this quarter we expect to issue an 8-K to recast quarterly and full year segment profit and non-GAAP earnings per share on similar basis for the past two fiscal years.
This will not result in a material change to the $5.64 non-GAAP earnings per share reported for fiscal 2014.
Turning to cash flow components we anticipate depreciation and amortization expense of $280 million including share-based compensation expense capital expenditures of $240 million including the continuation of supply chain project we have referenced today.
Lastly special project cost of nearly $25 million with most having the cash impact.
This is expected to result in free cash flow of $625 million to $635 million for 2015.
In closing we're pleased with our 2014 performance and we look forward to delivering sales and earnings per share growth in 2015.
Before I open the call for questions I would like to take this opportunity to thank Sonal for all of her contributions over the past six-plus years leading the investor relations area.
To our Investor and Analysts Day she has always tried to be responsive transparent and fair.
Internally she has provided keen insight counsel and leadership and for all that we thank her: While we will miss her as part of the IR team I know she will continue to contribute to the success of our company in the future.
Best wishes to Sonal in her new role.
With that we will open up the call for your questions.
Operator please queue up the first question.
Thank you.
The question and answer session will begin at this time.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Eric.
My question has to do let's is probably with the pricing on coffee.
It sounds like Starbucks is pretty well hedged.
Our restaurant analyst was out there earlier and didn't sound like they were really interested in moving on pricing not at their stores but in grocery.
Do see the pass-through mechanism as still being kind of fairly efficiently.
I guess last time; we had to raise prices a lot on the back of Arabica costs going up.
The volume elasticity was pretty tough so maybe you can just kind of comment on those two things.
Sure Eric.
This is Mark Smucker.
Yes so the short answer is we do feel that our ability to pass-through is efficient.
I guess maybe by way of grounding just to rewind the clock three-year the last time we took an increase was May of '11.
Since then we took essentially three list price declines.
Then this past year we chose to use another lever which was promotional spending to continue to bring our pricing down to remain competitive.
We did take a 9% increase earlier this week.
We did feel that as we have seen sustained increases our realized cost increases in our costs that we needed to do that and we felt that taking the list price decline in this instance was truly the best lever to pull being more transparent with our customers and you know we don't think there's really any change in how we have managed the business historically.
If you look at green coffee cost versus six months ago Arabica prices are still up about 60% - futures we are at costs are still up.
Eric this is Vince.
I would just build one thing on Mark's point.
When we were dealing with the issue a couple of years ago we were talking about Arabica.
They picked up well nearly over $3 and of course we are not at that level today but your point is well taken.
Then I guess just as a follow-up to either Richard or Paul.
I guess I had heard that from various sources that Easter season really wasn't as strong as a lot of companies had hoped for and it seems like you were - the consumer business did fairly well.
A lot of that came from Crisco.
I am not really sure why but maybe you could just talk a little bit about the environment the Easter season and I guess specifically that Crisco jump of 20% and I will pass it on.
Thank you.
Sure.
Hi Eric.
This is Paul Wagstaff.
Actually for us the Easter season was pretty good kind of across our brands that we promote during that time.
On the baking side we didn't promote as heavily as we have in the past years during that Easter season but our seasonal did actually very well during that time.
The Crisco business actually has had a very solid year overall and we've been up about 11% for total year and we are up 20% for the quarter and we were just frankly hitting on all cylinders with our customers with our promotions with merchandising so frankly we just had a really good season.
We'll take our next question from Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Andrew.
Richard as you mentioned you ramped little bit around some of the promotional programs in the quarter but you seem to get a nice volume lift as a result so trying to get a sense did the volume lift come in as you would have hoped based on some of the programs you ran or frankly did you get a little bit better lift than you might of thought.
I am trying to get a sense whether some of programs were in response to what you are seeing out there and what you have kind of talked about you even on the last call or if you were trying to lead in that regard just may begin where the input cost outlook is and the need to try and get volume moving in the right direction? I'll start with this.
Andrew it's Richard and I will turn it to over to team but we did see better results because of some of the pricing actions we've taken.
We know we pull all the levers we can where there is promotional pricing activities or merchandising activities and they all work pretty good.
I mean we came out of our third quarter we were a little discouraged if you remember at the end of the third quarter and so we basically went back to our teams said we need to do whatever can to make the numbers and both for the short and long-term and I would say the team delivered and we have just seen good merchandise and the trade so I don't know if the team wants to answer that.
Yes.
Andrew this is Vince.
I think also we had good sell-through from a number of our top-20 accounts as a result of our Olympic activity and so since we got big consumer takeaway from those accounts due to our merchandising I think we benefited from some of that in the fourth quarter as well but as you indicated it was declared in our scripted remarks we did have better than anticipated volume in our not only actually in our U.S.
retail but also in our Canadian retail business as well.
Overall we are very pleased.
Then Mark how should we think about our gross margin as we look out for the full-year in 2015 given some of obviously the pricing actions that you are taking and things of that nature obviously impact the percentage but trying to get a sense of expectations around that versus the gross margin dollars trend.
Well I think in terms of the profitability Andrew if you take what we provided and - you are going to see gross profit gains in dollars of about 4% which is pretty much in line with the sales growth.
Obviously our coffee pricing we are covering cost so there is a little bit of slippage there but I think what you will see as you work the P&amp;L and we will get about 4% gross profit.
We will pretty much hold that through in terms of net income and then we take up a couple of points of growth through the buyback.
Okay.
That's very helpful and good luck Sonal and thanks for all your help.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe with Stifel.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Hi.
I actually had a follow-up to Andrew's question and one other if I could.
I want to be clear Mark getting back to the gross margin here.
If I heard you correctly is pricing going to outstrip cost inflation in fiscal '15? I thought I heard you talking about but I want to be clear on that.
Then just to be clear overall do you expect cost inflation in fiscal '15 due to the coffee price will be up so much or peanut cost being down as well is that offsetting that? Yes.
We do expect to see overall cost inflation as the cost of green without striping all the decreases in the sweetener oils and peanuts that I noted.
In terms of margin percentage we will have a favorable price to cost which is contributing to the gross profit.
Then the margins are going to be relatively comparable.
Obviously we are moving the top line a lot so I don't think you are going to see significant change in the margin percentage but just to underscore we will see 4% gross profit gain for the year.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
Maybe just a bigger picture question perhaps for Richard but there has been a while of acquisition activity a lot of press around one in particular but I wanted to get a sense of how you see the acquisition environment today.
It seems like at least for certain assets multiples are up quite a bit.
Then maybe related to that your appetite not only for acquisitions but maybe for share repurchase activity in fiscal '15.
Thank you.
That's a good question and you are right.
There is more acquisition activity than there has been in the past couple of years.
I think that relate to two major factors.
The industry is not going to drop unless we don't like it to grow even though we have had some growth.
We would still like to grow better and so we are looking for like many other companies looking for brands to join and companies to join us and so is everyone else.
The second reason is just a low-cost of the interest rates.
Fed's policy of having low interest rates allows companies cost of capital to be lower and so they can pay higher prices and that's true for us also.
We said before we are going to pay up where it makes sense but we still have very firm discipline and some of the multiples we have seen on areas that we don't think long-term would be good for us and so we have to still have that discipline but with the interest rates where they are our cost of capitals come down also.
We are still out there we are still looking for the best fit for Smucker's and we are still going to pay up their price for it but we are not to go beyond paying the old cost of capital.
We are in Warren Buffett's camp on that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Driscoll of Citi.
Thank you and good morning.
Good morning David.
First off Sonal thank you for all of your help.
You have been terrific over the years and wish you the best on your new endeavor.
I want to start off going back to coffee.
You made some comments here but what do you expect in terms of profitability on coffee in 2015? Typically I believe that operating income profit generation has been around 5% to 6% annually.
Is there any reason to think that that's not going to be about the output in fiscal '15.
David this is Mark Belgya.
I guess the way I would answer your question is as I said in my scripted comments we expect all three segments to garner growth and segment profit.
If you look kind of look at where we are seeing basically 4% profit growth that's kind of spread reasonably equally across the group so you can do your own math.
That will get you some sense.
Okay.
My second and final question would just go to the food service operations or really the entire segment because I think there might be other pieces in here.
Frankly this is a very confusing segment.
There's a lot of things going on here.
Steve maybe I was hoping you could talk a little bit about why was there a trade adjustment again in the quarter? Kind of what's the plan to get this coffee operation going? Why are you guys so positive that this thing will move forward.
I think in the fiscal year profits were down like $30 million on the segment which is an enormous percent decline so just give us some understanding as to why you are confident that this thing will move in the right direction and then please address that trade accrual adjustment.
Thank you.
Certainly.
Hi Dave.
This is Steve Oakland.
Let me talk a little bit about one or two ways.
Let me talk about the trade adjustment and the complexities in the foodservice trade environment and then we will talk about the business and why we think the business is still strategically the right thing for the long-term.
In the foodservice market the trade spend equation is very complex and the reason for that is the multiple layers involved in the trade spend and foodservice.
Typically with a large national account you've got a distributor at least one GPO.
In some cases two GPOs so they are layered between those two business.
Then the coffee business in particular is very strong in those segments of foodservice that use GPO so the coffee business we bought is layered in these different things and there is a long lead time lag between when we ship this product who we ship it to and then when we get in-voice and who we get invoice by for those trade spend so for definition purpose GPOs group purchasing organization so to make sure everybody on the call knows what that is which is phenomenon foodservice basically that help foodservice operators be effective procuring goods across the industry.
With that complexity to be effective there you need a couple of things.
You need process you need systems and you need people and we moved that team last summer from Sara Lee's office in Chicago and we rebuilt both the process and the team.
The key to that is we now have a history overlay on that so we feel comfortable that we can now given all of those lead times we can make proper trade accruals.
We can manage that system.
That's why we feel good about it today.
We are not good about where we are and how we have accounted for this year.
We think the numbers were right we are disappointed to bringing them the way we have but the team feels they have their arms around it.
With regard to the business there's two real business segments here.
There's the jam and there is the core liquid coffee business.
That business at close came under a tremendous amount of competitive pressure and the good news there is it's never declined.
Although we had a lot of pressure from large competitors and small competitors we have fended that off.
That business was flat the first year.
It's been up slightly this year and we think with the Folgers brand and the new equipment it's positioned well to grow so that's the jam in that business.
The other side of that business is roast and ground cappuccino cocoa tea business.
Quite frankly that's been the most challenged piece of that business.
The volume we have lost there was due to the interdependencies that those segments that with the private label contracts that we exited so now that those contracts are gone we can start to rebuild those one at a time.
Those contracts come up annually semiannually et cetera so that's going to take some time but we feel like we have the right brands we have the right products.
We have freed those now from those private contracts.
We can go back and pick those products that make sense and those segments that make sense.
It's a lot of work.
That team is not happy with the results but they're convinced that they have got the tools the brands and the products to make it work and they are working really hard.
We are working really hard to make it happen.
The $17 million accrual this year will not be a reoccurring expense in fiscal '15.
True or false? 50% of that will recur.
50% will not.
Thank you.
I'll pass it along.
Our next question comes from Jason English of Goldman Sachs.
Good morning folks.
Thanks for the question.
Let me just reiterate what many of us said Sonal congratulations.
Best wishes.
We will miss you.
Thank you.
Okay.
You bet.
On to the business I guess you have anniversaried all the list price reductions in coffee I think in February so this was a clean quarter in terms of list prices but pricing mix down 12%.
Can you parse out how much of that was mix how much of that was price? Then on a go forward you have announced a 9% list price increase.
Should we expect this thing to turn on a dime and go from down 12 to plus 9 or will it take time to retract some of that heavy promotional spent? Jason this is Mark Belgya.
To your first question on the breakdown of the 12% is predominantly priced about 11% a couple of points of mix on table and then up plus 1 on the volume side.
Jason this is Mark Smucker.
As it relates to pricing and what you see in the marketplace on the shelf generally speaking you would start to see retailers reflect pricing very quickly so there will be some reduction out of the gate on trade.
Of course we will continue to support our brands but we feel very comfort with our marketing investments as well and making sure that we continue to support the consumer.
Okay so some reduction of trade spend should we interpret that to be the 9% list price increase for us to be enhanced by lower trade spend so this could be a double-digit net increase for the year? I think you will see some pull back on trade but again I don’t think we disclose specifically what that is but there are always will be trade and there always will be customer and consumers support as we support our business.
Okay.
That's helpful one last question and then I will pass it on.
Dunkin' Donuts K-Cup retail opportunity if you listen to Dunkin' Donuts and their public comments there are certainly singing a slightly different tune in terms of the opportunity so I was hoping you comment on what if any tests are underway to test that opportunity out.
Then conform also that were that to go to traditional retailers such as groceries it would have go for you? Thank you.
Jason this is Vince.
We really don't have anything to report on that front.
We continue to work with the Dunkin' organization but there's really nothing new at this point and I really don't want to comment on the contract.
I mean other than to say that if it was ever to be launched obviously we would believe that would go through us.
Great.
Thanks a lot guys.
Our next question comes from Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Good morning.
Sonal thanks for all your help over the years.
You have been a class act.
Getting back to the subject of promotions a couple of follow-ups number one I am curious how permanent do you expect the shift toward promos to be? I think there was a comment that you decided to do.
Whatever it took to make your numbers so I am not quite sure if that implies the shift will be more temporary in nature.
Second historically promotions - they've done a great job sparking one-time volume lifts but then of course those volumes tend to erode as competition matches the deal back so I am interested in what your expectation is for the competitive response.
Then I guess lastly I am curious if you expect both total marketing and brand building spending to grow in line with sales next year.
I am sneaking in one there.
Ken I'll start and then will turn it over to Mark Belgya and the team.
Let's again reinforce what we had said.
In the coffee and specifically we chose not to take a list price decreased primarily on the back half of the year and using another lever we passed those cost savings on through promotional spending so if you would look at our statement those promotional spendings would have been higher.
Now that we have taken a price increase in effective this week those dollars would I'll say go away for the most part to maybe a more traditional level.
Again that really depends upon particularly in coffee where green position is versus our price too so it's just a mechanism so yes it was higher in the fourth quarter.
Again how we chose the pass those costs long and how that was recognized in our statement.
I apologize.
I wasn't clear.
I was talking more on the consumer food side.
I apologize.
Hi.
Ken Paul here.
Paul Wagstaff.
Overall no we felt very good about our balance and how we promote and compared to marketing spending and price declines or increases et cetera.
In the fourth quarter we didn't spend deeper to get more volume.
We had solid plans for the Easter as I mentioned and our business came in kind of about as expected nice and solid for that quarter.
Ken this is Richard.
You made one comment I just want to make sure that you understand.
You used the term we will do whatever it takes to get the volume and will do whatever it takes to that hits our payout profit margins.
As long it's good for the long-term growth of the business but we want to make sure whatever we do is responsible.
We go to our team we don't say whatever it takes.
We go to our team and say do whatever makes sense for the business long-term.
Then finally Ken I think your question on the marketing that was for the total company correct? For next year? Yes.
Thank you Mark.
Yes.
That would be growing pretty much in line with - in my scripted comment I said sell-through was about 5% marketing basically in line at that.
I understood.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks everyone.
I appreciate it.
Our next question comes from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Hi.
This is a question about how to evaluate the year versus your internal targets.
I guess you did lower EPS guidance for the year and you came in at 5% growth.
I think the guidance originally was 7.5%.
This will be your proxy but I wanted to clarify is this below what you had expected in the beginning of the year.
If so I would imagine executive comp is probably lower year-over-year your accruals for executive are lower year-over-year and maybe that's why your op expenses are not as high this year as originally expected.
Is that true? Well this is Mark Belgya.
Generally that's true.
I think you are probably aware our structure varied a little bit [business] unit or in corporate but there is certainly is a margin or an EPS component.
Again depending upon if you look at the business side where the respective businesses finished some were under some were over.
In corporate we finished below are overall expectations so the adjustment over the year to the accrual would reflect a lower bonus and long-term compensation expense.
That will be reinstated next year for planning purposes obviously so there is an incremental impact that is in the guidance range that we provided.
Can you tell me about what that incremental impact is? My math indicates that your EBIT guidance here probably only up about 1% or 2% for fiscal '15.
Are those assumptions correct? No.
We would say that again it's more aligned with the gross profit growth sort of that 4% depend on how the rounding and what part of the range you used.
In terms of the compensation increase I would say it's probably about I don't know about $0.03 $0.04 maybe.
Okay.
I'll follow up offline.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
Good morning everyone.
Can I ask about competitive dynamics in the different parts of the coffee segment? I'm thinking within K-Cups are we through the worst? In premium costs obviously ramped up on Gevalia and working on a Cafe project.
How is that developing? Then in the mainstream coffee are you still gaining share from the private label area? Maybe you could talk that through for me.
Thank you.
Thanks Alexia.
It's Mark Smucker.
Why don't I take it I'll do K-Cups last and just start with the core roast and ground business.
Again you know as we said we have been very pleased with our performance in both of those segments.
We have seen given the deflationary environment that we have been in the branded businesses are doing very well versus store brands and then doing also very well versus our competition and that goes back to both the support that we have had in place from a marketing perspective as well as managing our pricing the gaps to our competitors and so forth.
On the mainstream side if you are looking at our recent share you would see maybe a little decline but I would tell you is that the interaction we have been seeing with our primary competitor in the mainstream segment has primarily been against our opening price point where our core Red Can businesses compliments our Columbian items have all been doing very very well and that looks to continue.
Then of course Dunkin' goes without saying has done very well.
Our Folgers Gourmet sort of our lower tier in the premium segment has also been doing very well so we have been very pleased with the results and we have continued to grow our share.
One comment as I have reflected on Jason and Ken's earlier question just on trade.
As we talk we do use different levers to make sure our pricing is right but I guess I would just like to say that you have to a little careful of what we say publicly just from a competitive standpoint we want to be sensitive to make sure that we are divulging our strategies.
Then finally on K-Cup we have been just a little disappointed this quarter because it is the first time we have seen some declines in our K-Cup business.
That said our Folgers brand has done very well and most of the declines having been driven by Millstone.
Looking forward we do feel that we have to continue to invest in that business.
There continues to be a lot of noise and we need to make sure that our pricing is right.
We need to make sure that our marketing is right and that we are investing there and we still feel confident that we can grow it with the introduction of our Bustelo K-Cup we are restaging a few of our Folgers items.
As we go through this summer and early fall several of our customers are actually going to be resetting or restaging their shelves.
Given the performance of licensed brands versus the unlicensed licensed tend to have better turn rates so we do feel that coming through those shelf resets that we will fare well.
Great I'll leave it there but thank you Sonal for all your help over the years.
We will miss you and good luck with the next step.
Thank you very much Alexia.
Our next question comes from Akshay Jagdale of KeyBanc.
Good morning and congratulations Sonal and thanks for the help and good luck.
You will be missed.
Thank you Akshay.
I just want to follow-up on coffee.
I guess my favorite subject but can you Mark maybe talk a little bit more about what you just mentioned in terms of the shops resetting at large customers? Obviously guessing at these particular ones that you are talking about you are the category leader Can you give us some insights into the type of data that is perhaps leading to these decisions and sort of what are we actually seeing in terms of turns so that we get a sense as to the magnitude of some of these changes perhaps? That's my first question.
Well Akshay first I would say the category leader is clearly Green Mountain.
I mean they developed the system.
They clearly have the largest share so having being partner with them is something we have always been very grateful towards and I have got a couple of other very good partners so as a whole for those of us that you know we have talked for that are licensed we do feel we have advantages.
We are in the (Inaudible) we recently got access to new channels and so forth so that's why we continue to be optimistic.
I mean the partnership is really better than ever and we do still believe that the quality in those products continues to be strong and superior to many of the unlicensed.
Typically in coffee a lot of new items and across these higher coffee categories are in accepted and cut into the shelves at this time of the year whether it's small or large customers.
Some customers have acknowledged that their sets maybe got too big and there were too many brands there.
Others not so much and so usually this time of the year as we go into our first and second quarters that retailers small and large are sort of having the reckoning with this category so this is the time when we would think that we would have potentially some wins.
As it relates to the data it's multiple source.
We have a strong shopper insights team category management and who will be forming from IRI among NPD and many other sources from that perspective.
What we are seeing is it continues to be encouraging.
Okay.
Just as a follow-up on the partnership itself.
You don't typically make these things public but you decided to in this case.
There's a lot of good things right so you are getting channel expansion you are getting three new SKUs you are restaging your current lineup part of it.
Then I am guessing you are going to have a [cup] if not one multiple.
Help me understand a little bit better why we are going to see margins dip below the segment average and how does that sort of compare year-over-year? Were margins in line with segment average this year? You mentioned I think specifically investing in pricing but also higher cost so help us understand that in light of the renewal of your relationship with Green Mountain and the expansion? Okay.
Akshay it's Mark again of course.
The expansion in the contract that we typically haven't disclosed this time we felt it was a big enough deal.
It is important to that and to emphasize it is consistent with other partners so dollars channel or online some more flexibility in the club channel and so forth.
Those are some of the things that we were able regain.
Obviously Green Mountain felt that was a win-win as well.
Then in terms of margins yes.
In this past year that we just finished they were in line with our segment.
Going forward as we said in the script they will be below our segment average for a couple of reasons.
As you know we did not take a price increase this week on K-Cup and we have seen some cost inflation overall in that area but the primary reason is that although we feel that our Folgers brand will commend the price that we have been seeing on shelves.
We do feel that we have to continue to invest to protect our franchise.
By invest we mean in marketing for the consumer as well as continuing to support our promotional activity at the shelf.
Akshay this is Vince.
I just want to maybe summarize a little bit what Mark was saying and to answer questions you are right that we typically don't go public with elements of our agreement but we felt that we were being maybe disadvantaged that we weren't moving along with Green Mountain as maybe some of their other partners who tend to be more public so that was a reason why we felt that it was important that we communicate that externally.
As mark said we believe our relationship with Green Mountain is as good as it's ever been since its inception.
Then the other thing is I think you alluded from Mark's comments is that this segment is going through transition and we just felt that we needed to continue to invest in it as we work our way through this transitional period of the new 2.0.
As you know Green Mountain is signing up several retailer brands.
There is a little bit of in some accounts where there is some underperforming SKUs et cetera so are our bottom-line conclusion is we are going to continue to invest in it take a little market hit and to make sure that we are competitive during that period.
Great.
Just one last one.
This is just more for the overall company.
If you look at your guidance obviously you are guiding to I think 6%-ish EPS growth 4% or 5% EBIT growth which is generally in line with your long-term algorithm and generally what you delivered this year despite much more favorable cost environment than you are going to see next year.
Wouldn't you say there is a little bit more risk to your outlook going into this year compared to last or how should we think about that because we came off of a year where obviously in light of all of the challenges in the industry the result was good but still below your initial expectations.
Now we are going into this year where costs are certainly rising and there competition is still pretty intense.
Is there more risk to earnings guidance this year given the commodity increase or is there something controllable in your P&amp;L that gives you more confidence this year? Yes.
Akshay this is Mark Belgya.
Let me just start and then guys jump in as you feel necessary.
I think if you take a look at some of the items that hit our P&amp;L in 2014 is as Steve alluded earlier whether its trade spend or some of the operational issues we had during the middle of the year some of the disadvantaged cost position regarding peanut butter those are items that we firmly believe that they are turning completely or turning in the right direction forward so that's one reason we clearly feel more confident in terms of numbers.
Again depending on your perspective you could have some different views on risk in terms of volume growth.
Then kind of below the EBIT line obviously the interest rates for the most part and certainly the shares are locked in so that 2-plus percentage points of growth that their certainty so when we develop our plans as I am sure every company you try to get the most reflective plan with the most current assumptions in it and thus we feel good about it.
Are there risks? Certainly.
I would not say there is any more risk this year than in any other prior year.
Great.
Thank you so much.
This is Richard.
I think Mark you answered it very well so I won't add to that.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for the questions.
Just two things first you called out a favorable impact during the quarter from some of the specialty alternative Jif line extensions so there seems to be some momentum on those products.
Can you talk a bit more about the efforts that you have planned there during 2015 and how input cost dynamics could impact your ability to invest behind those in the near-term? Hi Matt.
This is Paul Wagstaff.
A couple of things just on peanut butter in general.
As Mark has mentioned here a second ago our higher peanut costs we do feel are behind us so going into '15 we feel we will price very well closer to one of the more normal average has been.
Actually in fact the crop looks great right now.
Our coverage we are pleased with so we feel - line cost wise with our competition so we feel very good about peanut butter business overall.
When you look at some of the innovation that we have coming out in that area we have Jif Whips which is a snack-type item.
Their snacks is growing category and certainly have been doing well.
Our Jif Whips continue to do well and we are pleased that.
With Jif Hazelnut we are re-launching that product in the plastic jar at a similar size for competition we are investing behind all of these so we feel very very good and comfortable with our peanut butter business and where it's heading in fiscal year coming up so we are pleased with that.
Matthew I will add just to that.
In peanut butter just in general there is a real emphasis today in the marketplace on plant-based protein and a lot of companies are focusing on that area and peanut butter is probably the largest plant-based protein in the marketplace so I think we will continue to get some benefit from that.
Our acquisition of Enray foods performance and the team - leadership that they have is another plant-based protein that we are writing on in the health food area so we are excited about being in those categories.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Just one more on input cost.
I am not sure if there's something you can address in specific or generality but can you give us a rough sense of what type of expectations for green coffee or Arabica prices you have incorporated into your outlook? Just given how volatile it has been recently does your guidance really capture the impact of some of the very recent pullbacks we have seen in futures prices? Matt this is Mark Belgya.
We really have stepped away from commenting on position and coverage and how that plays.
I would just say that we feel comfortable and we accelerated on price and you can do some math around that.
We feel comfortable that the costs are built in our guidance are reflective of where we are.
Okay.
All right thanks again everyone.
Good luck Sonal.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Farha Aslam of Stephens.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi Farah.
First question is on your operational focus.
This year you were very internally focused with a lot of transition in your plant networks.
Could you just update us on where we stand with all of those projects and are you now positioned to launch new products much more actively going into 2015? Hi Farha.
This is Paul Wagstaff.
First off starting with our fruit spreads projects that we completed this year so as you know we can find a couple of our facilities in to our Orrville our brand new facility and that plant is up and running and doing well so we are pleased with that performance.
We are also kicking off the production or the construction of producing peanut butter in our Memphis facility in Tennessee and that is on track and on budget as we speak and it should be peanut butter by fourth quarter of this year so we feel pleased there.
We have also had some additional capacity investments in our Toledo facility for our frosting line and that's up and running and doing very well so on the consumer side we have made some significant investments and continue to do so and we are track.
Farha Steve Oakland.
As I think you know we've invested over the last couple years in our Scottsville Kentucky plant for Uncrustables.
We have seen nice growth in our consumer business there we manufacturing on average of over 1 million peanut butter jelly sandwiches a day across the country so we're excited to be able to raise that number over the next year or two so that plant has been invested in as well.
Farha this is Mark Smucker.
In coffee we are largely through all of our supply chain projects and have realized that savings the one outstanding is the consolidation of Miami into New Orleans which is on track related this calendar year.
Then just total company as Richard mentioned and Mark we are basically on pace to introduce more than 100 products again this year.
Farha this is Vince.
Having said all that we continue to look at the entire supply chain to make sure it's most effective and efficient as possible.
As we have added acquisitions over the last 18 months we will be looking at the entire distribution network to again see if we can find some additional savings.
Great.
That's helpful.
Now when we look forward to M&amp;A Richard you mentioned it a little bit that you are looking at M&amp;A in this environment but could you just spell out Smucker's criteria particularly how you feel about your balance sheet today? What leverage level you will be willing to take Smucker's and what ROIC discipline you are just putting around in acquisitions in this environment? I'll start with the last and we usually don't share our ROIC numbers other than we definitely more than cover our cost of capital a little risk factor in there.
As far as all the acquisition activities if you look at our criteria our criteria is center of the store number one or two brands and we like to make sure that we can get to number one brands but we don't necessarily have to buy the number one brand in the category.
Center of the store allows us to play not only in the dry but also the frozen category.
The fact that there is a lot more activity out there means that there are more brands and companies coming to the market so it gives us more to look at and we look at them either enabling acquisitions in Enray foods the bolt-on which was Café Bustelo and then transformational and we are still looking in those three buckets and so there is more coming across [the] prices as I said are higher but we have the balance sheet.
I will let Mark comment on that next but balance sheet to really do a sizable acquisition.
Mark you want to talk a little bit more about that? Yes.
Farha I guess only the point on the leverage is if you look we have a leverage ratios out there about 3.5 times so our EBITDA is about $1.2 so we are sitting at roughly 1.5 times levered so we can borrow up to $4 billion-ish so a $2 billion just to do a cash and debt finance transaction not that we are looking at that necessarily but that kind of frames what possibilities could be.
Any reason that Smucker's hasn't done a large transaction over the last two to three years? Is it that you didn't find the opportunity? Was it valuation? It was primarily valuation and leaves us with a couple and we have been participating but some of these multiples have been paid.
Just don't seem to be at least for us the right one so we are still looking.
Great.
Thanks for the added color.
Our next question comes from Chuck Cerankosky of Northcoast Research.
Good morning everyone.
I would like to talk a little bit about trade spending in two forms on the consumer products side what you might be looking at this year away from directly to the trade but more consumer promotions.
Our work suggests that you have slowed down a little bit on some of the consumer stuff not a lot but some.
How that might pick up? Then how trade spending works on the Foodservice side since the ultimate consumer there going to a restaurant doesn't necessarily see what brand of coffee he or she is drinking and I am wondering how that fits into some of the accruals et cetera going on there.
Hi Chuck.
Paul Wagstaff here.
First off we talk about marketing investments and progress we have going into this upcoming year.
We feel very well-positioned in all of our brands.
We have couple of three key timeframes.
One is back to school we feel very well-positioned with our spreads business peanut butter and fruit spreads our promotion not only with your in-store activities but also on TV.
We have a lot of TV coming out on our brands.
Then [time period] it's a little early but we are in the process of starting to work with our retailers to lock those timeframes up as well.
So far we feel pretty good there is always some puts and - when it comes to kind of the oil business in that area but on the baking side it's a category which is good about that and then of course for the rest of the year at Easter time period being one of the biggest in the fourth quarter.
That's too early to tell at this point but we feel good in what we are investing as far as marketing is concerned and we will anticipate that delivering some good results.
Will you see some increase year-over-year in some of the consumer promotions? Yes.
We should.
Hi Chuck.
Steve Oakland.
You are right.
In foodservice trade spend is really a different labor.
Let me talk about when you talk about the back of house versus front of house brands.
Our core portion control business those things are tabletop front of house.
Our relationship with Cumberland foods sweet little sugar and the raw those products were tabletop and front of the consumer.
There is an enormous coffee business away from home so when you segment that there is a couple of key segments where brand is important.
Whether that would be office coffee or there are a couple where our Folgers brand plays well but they are small.
Now the downward was the liquid coffee business is strong in the most high volume of segments which are healthcare lodging convention places where a tremendous amount of casinos or tremendous amount of coffee is served at one given time and what we are selling there is brand yes but it's technology.
The downgradable system is the best in the world at high-volume high quality coffee at a predictable cost so you we are selling a different customer value experience in that environment and the trade spend there is really programs spend that's really not passed on to the customer.
It's a purchase contract rebate-type stuff.
All right.
Thank you.
That's helpful.
Our next question comes from John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
Mark just again in terms of the K-Cup's in the single-serve category and just some clarity there I guess given the pressure from net pricing you are expecting in 2015 does that suggest kind of a change in price dynamic underway in terms of maybe a greater emphasis on promotion and managing price gaps given that private label has achieved such a meaningful share right now or do you see it more as kind of a temporary phenomenon? John this is Mark of course.
In this most previous year we did see a little bit more frequency of promotion and that will continue through this coming year but pricing dynamics are generally consistent and we seen that price gaps versus both private label and competition have remained more or less constant but you are seeing a little bit more frequency of promotion.
Okay.
Then in terms of the Folgers K-Cup brand it sounds as though your assessment of that brand is better than the measured channel data would suggest given that sales declines have been accelerating the past couple of quarters so is there another component to that maybe non-measure performance doing better? Well maybe we have to look at both dollars and volumes.
When you look at dollars clearly there has been a decline.
That has been driven primarily again some of the frequency and promotion just making sure that we are supporting our brand but if you look at the Folgers Gourmet Selection that's the brand we've been using for the last three years we are still up in this quarter 25% over two years ago so the numbers are pretty good.
For the full-year the Folgers brand is up 6% on dollars and 10% on volume.
Does that help? Yes.
Thanks Mark.
Our next question comes from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Hi.
A quick follow-up.
You bought back a lot of shares this year.
If there is no M&amp;A activity in fiscal '15 can I assume that share count will be down again in fiscal '15 maybe 2% or 3%? Yes.
Rob this is Mark Belgya again.
I think if you look at the last three years we have actually exceeded 2%.
We sort of have [sustained] 2% goal for plan we don't include it but certainly if there's no M&amp;A opportunity I think the recent history shows that repurchases is a viable use of our cash.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you again Sonal.
Good luck.
Yes.
Thank you again.
There are no further questions.
I will now turn the conference call back to management to conclude.
I want to thank everyone for being on the phone today and I also again want to reiterate Mark's comments about Sonal and all your wonder comments about Sonal may not let her leave her position so [Aaron] you have good big shoes to fill so I want to thank everybody for being on the call and have a good week.
Ladies and gentlemen if you wish to access the rebroadcast of this live call you may do so by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 with a passcode of 7130736.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to The J.M.
Smucker Company's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all participants are in a listen-only mode.
At the request of the company we will open the conference up for question and answers after the presentation.
Please limit yourself to two initial questions during the Q&amp;A session and re-queue if you then additional questions.
I will now turn the conference over to Aaron Broholm Director Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our first quarter earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
Here with me on the call are Richard Smucker Chief Executive Officer; Vince Byrd President and Chief Operating Officer; Mark Belgya Chief Financial Officer; Mark Smucker President US Retail Coffee; and Paul Smucker Wagstaff President - US Retail Consumer Foods.
Steve Oakland President International Foodservice and Natural Foods is also on the line from another location.
Our prepared comments this morning will be organized as follows.
Richard will begin with an overview of our first quarter performance Vince will then provide an update on our business segments and Mark will close with additional comments on our financial results for the quarter and our outlook for the year.
During this conference call we will make forward-looking statements that reflect the company’s current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates and actual results may differ materially due to risks and uncertainties.
I encourage you to read the full disclosure statement in the press release concerning forward-looking statements.
Additionally please note the company uses non-GAAP results for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.
Discussion on non-GAAP information is detailed in our press release located on our corporate website at jmsmucker.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the website.
If you have any follow-up questions after today’s call please contact me.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Aaron.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
With a record quarter of non-GAAP earnings per share we are pleased with the start of our fiscal year.
I will begin with a few highlights for the quarter.
First volume gains were achieved across a number of our major US retail brands and categories.
In our Coffee segment volume was up 2% driven by the performance of our Folgers Café Bustelo and Dunkin’ Donuts brands.
Low price realization resulted in the decline in net sales for this segment and for the company.
Within Consumer Foods volume gains were realized in several key categories including Jif peanut butter Smucker’s fruit spreads and Crisco oils.
Total volumes for the entire segment was in line with the prior year.
As anticipated volume declined in our International Foodservice and Natural Foods segments reflecting the prior year plan business rationalizations which will be fully lapped by the end of the calendar year.
Second as anticipated significant improvement in Consumer Food segment profit primarily due to peanut butter drove operating income growth for the company.
Lastly this combined with lower interest expense and fewer shares outstanding resulted in non-GAAP earnings per share increasing 11% to $1.34.
We are encouraged by these results in light of the challenging economic environment that persists.
As we look ahead to the holiday period and the balance of fiscal 2015 we are optimistic in delivering another year of earnings per share growth.
This is supported by our ability to manage our price to cost relationships the expected contribution from innovation and new products our strong marketing and merchandising plans our ongoing investments to optimize our supply chain and the strategic deployment of our cash flow.
Let me briefly comment on our recent announcement regarding our agreement to acquire the Sahale snack business.
This is an exciting enabling acquisition that adds a portfolio of innovative and on trend premium nut and fruit snacks.
With the growing snacking trend Sahale provides a new platform for growth complementing our recent innovation efforts within our consumer foods business where we have introduced several new snacking items such as the Jif To Go dippers.
We look forward to completing the acquisition next month and welcoming the Sahale employees to The Smucker Company.
Also supported by a strong balance sheet we believe we are well-positioned to continue adding attractive brands and businesses to our portfolio.
In closing we feel good about the start of the fiscal year and are encouraged to be moving beyond certain headwinds that we have spoken to you over the past few quarters as we continue to show progress across our businesses.
We firmly believe with our commitment to our strategy the strength of our leading brands and our team’s ability to adapt and execute we remain well-positioned for long-term growth.
With that I turn the call over to Vince.
Thank you Richard and good morning everyone.
We are pleased with our first quarter results and these reflect solid volume performance across a number of our major brands supported by pricing actions and the contribution from innovation.
Also during the quarter we began to lap some of our recent headwinds.
Turning to the three business segments in US Retail Coffee we achieved a 9<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter of year-over-year volume growth reflecting gains in each of our largest coffee brands.
Volume growth in mainstream roast and ground coffee led to the Folgers brand being up 2% for the quarter on top of a 4% increase last year.
Folger’s Gourmet Selections K-Cup also realized solid volume gains.
Dunkin’ Donuts coffee continued its momentum with volume up 3% against a strong 6% prior year comp.
In addition the Cafe Bustelo brand had strong volume growth with double-digit percentage gain.
The introduction of Cafe Bustelo brand at K-Cups added to these results.
During the quarter Coffee segment net sales were impacted by lower net price realization.
While we announced a 9% list price increase on the majority of our portfolio in June pricing on committed promotional programs along with continued price investment to remain competitive on shelf temporarily delayed the impact.
We expect full reflection of the price increase in the second quarter.
Coffee segment profit was 4% below the prior years’ first quarter.
In addition to comparing to a strong prior year results other factors affecting comparability included a more favorable price to cost ratio in last year’s first quarter and lower K-Cup profitability as previewed on our year-end call.
As a reminder we anticipated K-Cup margins to be compressed in fiscal 2015.
We are encouraged by the initial contributions from new products and new distribution channels and our K-Cup business is on track to deliver our profitability expectations for the full-year.
Also during the quarter we made the decision to discontinue the Life is good coffee brand.
This resulted in a small charge to segment profit.
Shifting to the Consumer Food segment overall volume was in line with a strong first quarter in the prior year.
Gains in several key brands and categories were offset by declines in lower margin baking mixes and flour.
Looking at the performance within the spreads categories volume with the Jif brand was up 4% on top of an 8% increase last year.
This result reflects a balance of price brand support and innovation.
Smucker’s fruit spread volume grew 2% behind gains in traditional varieties as well as continued growth of our natural fruit spreads.
Also within the brand we remain pleased with the initial performance of Smucker’s Fruit-Fulls.
Lastly Smucker’s Uncrustables frozen sandwich achieved double-digit volume growth in retail for the 10<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter.
The completion of our Scottsville manufacturing expansion provides the needed capacity to support our growth initiative for this product line.
Our overall PB&amp;J business is in the midst of the back-to-school promotional season.
We are encouraged by the merchandising plans we have in place and the initial consumer takeaway that will ultimately be the key to our performance for the period.
In the bake aisle the Crisco brand continued its momentum with another quarter of strong volume growth.
As soybean oil futures have declined to five-year lows we have reflected lower cost in our pricing impacting net sales.
The primary soft spot in the Consumer Foods during the quarter was the Pillsbury brand.
This reflects declines in the overall category and increased competitive activities primarily on flour and base cake items.
As we enter the Fall Bake period we continue to focus our efforts on frostings and other higher margin products.
We are also encouraged by the new Pillsbury items to be launched and another solidly year of holiday merchandising plans.
Segment profit was up 19% over the prior year.
As expected much of the increase was driven by improvements in peanut butter profitability.
Prior year segment profit was negatively impacted by peanut butter price declines that were taken in advance of recognizing lower peanut cost.
For the full-year we expect peanut butter margins to now be more in line with historical average of the past several years.
Lastly within this segment as Richard mentioned we are excited about the acquisition of Sahale Snacks and look forward to the contributions of Sahale towards growing our overall Consumer Foods business.
In International Food Services and Natural Foods much out of the first quarter segment profit decline was expected primarily attributed to factors we discussed on our year-end call including the weaker Canadian dollar as compared to a year ago and a higher grade on trade spent in Food Service coffee which will continue to impact our year-over-year comparisons until fully left beginning in the third quarter.
Our focus remains on growing the overall segment and we are encouraged by recent accomplishments including market share gains across most of our categories in Canada driven by innovation and merchandizing; within Food Service the ongoing conversion of our customers to our Folger’s branded liquid coffee offering.
In Natural Foods our integrated sales organization is driving expanded distribution opportunities for the truRoots brand and lastly our partner in China Seamild continues to grow and positively contributed to our first quarter results.
Overall for this segment we remain optimistic about achieving full-year sales and segment profit growth in 2015.
In summary we are encouraged by the start to our fiscal year considering the current industry dynamics and we look forward to executing on our back-to-school and holiday programs.
We have a great team of passionate employees and as always we thank them for their efforts.
I will now turn the call over to Mark.
Thank you Vince and good morning everyone.
I will start by providing additional color on our first quarter results and then conclude with our outlook for the full-year.
Net sales decreased $27 million or 2% in the quarter reflecting a 3% reduction in net price realization primarily attributable to the coffee segment.
The impact of lower volumes mostly resulting from declines in baking and business exits was essentially offset by the contribution from acquisitions.
And finally mix added one percentage point of growth.
GAAP earnings per share were $1.14 this quarter down from $1.19 in the first quarter of last year.
Included in this year’s GAAP earnings were $21 million of unallocated derivative losses compared to a gain of 5 million in the prior year.
The current-year loss reflected change in election effective this quarter to no longer qualify commodity and foreign currency exchange derivatives for hedge accounting treatment.
Derivative gains and losses are now recognized immediately in earnings which may result in increased volatility in GAAP results going forward.
In conjunction we’ve revised our definition of segment profit and non-GAAP earnings to exclude these unallocated derivative gains and losses until the related inventory is sold.
Our Form 8-K was filed in July to recap segment profit and non-GAAP earnings for prior years to exclude previously disclosed unrealized mark-to-market adjustments on derivative contracts.
Excluding hedging gains and losses and other special project costs that are defined in our press release non-GAAP EPS increased 11% primarily attributable to three factors.
First gross profit drove an overall increase in operating income.
Gross profit increased $11 million or 2% reflecting lower commodity costs which were only partially offset by pricing.
Favorable mix also contributed.
This resulted in gross margin improving to 37.8% an increase of 150 basis points over the prior year.
Partially offsetting this was higher SD&amp;A driven by an increase in selling expenses primarily due to incremental expenses associated with last year’s acquisitions and a charge related to the discontinuation of the Life is good coffee brand.
Second lower interest expenses contributed to EPS growth reflecting the interest rate swap entered into during the prior year.
The year-over-year benefit of the swap will be lapped as we proceed through the second quarter.
And third a decrease in the number of average shares outstanding resulting from last years share repurchase activity.
Turning to cash flow cash used for operating activities was $8 million in the first quarter compared to a source of cash of $82 million in the prior year.
This decline is primarily attributable to a greater current-year use of cash for working capital needs reflecting higher green coffee cost and ending inventory as well as certain timing factors.
Adding capital expenditures of $49 million for the quarter free cash flow was 57 million negative.
We continue to project capital expenditures of 240 million for fiscal 2015 reflecting an expected ramp up in spending for the last nine months of the year.
With no changes in our earnings guidance or CapEx from original estimates we are not adjusting our free cash flow target of $625 million to $635 million.
That said we are currently tracking above working capital levels necessary to achieve this goal.
We will see a reduction in working capital from current levels as we move through the holiday period and plan to provide an update to our estimate following the second quarter.
We ended the first quarter with short-term borrowings of $470 million against our $1.5 billion credit facility.
With the upcoming closing of the $80 million Sahale acquisition and seasonal working capital needs we expect short-term borrowings to peak near $700 million in the second quarter and then decline during the remainder of the year.
As noted in a Form 8-K filed earlier this month we entered into a $1 billion commercial paper program allowing us to take advantage of favorable interest rates and providing additional flexibility to meet our short-term borrowing needs.
We are now in the market improving our existing [revolver] borrowings to commercial paper Considering the higher than anticipated levels of short-term borrowings yet at a more favorable interest rate resulting from the CP program we continue to expect net interest expense in the range of $65 million to $70 million for the full-year.
This range reflects our current projections and outlooks for short-term borrowings and interest rates.
Let me conclude with a sales and EPS outlook.
We now anticipate 2015 net sales will increase at a rate slightly less than the 5% guidance provided on a year-end call.
Despite this modest decline we are maintaining our non-GAAP earnings per share range of $5.95 to $6.05.
Sales of approximately $25 million associated with the Sahale acquisitions are included within a revived guidance.
As we invest in the business to support distribution growth we do not expect material bottom-line contributions from this acquisition in the near-term.
And with that will open up the calls to your questions.
Operator could you please queue up for the first question.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Alexia Howard of Sanford Bernstein.
Please state your question ma’am.
I wanted to ask about the outlook for Coffee profit from here.
You’ve obviously seen a rebound in the profit from the peanut butter side.
Coffee the cost have been rising it sounded as though last quarter you might have been expecting a little bit more of a bump in coffee profits from the decline (inaudible) time.
[Inaudible] list price increases kicking in the next quarter how does the outlook look from here.
Thank you.
Alexia this is Mark Belgya.
I guess it is a little hard to hear your question quite candidly it was breaking up a bit.
But I think what we would say generally across our businesses as opposed to getting into specifics of any three you’ll recall at the end of the year we said that we expected our segment profits to be up in all three of our segments.
I think that’s still a fair comment despite you know where coffee came in.
I think what I would say is that we expect overall to be up consistently in total because obviously we’re not adjusting guidance.
I think the mix between the three segments may be a little bit different than what we expected out of the gate.
And then can I ask about share repurchases versus acquisitions going forward in usage of cash.
Thank you.
Sure.
I think just to restate our order of preference of spending our cash we have our general umbrella statement of 50% shareholders 50% for the business which we have held true to.
M&amp;A and finding the right strategic investment is clearly the number one use of cash and as we made a small acquisition and will be here in the next quarter would be our number one use.
But I think we have demonstrated that if there are not opportunities we still feel that buying back shares is a good use of our cash.
Again just to remind everyone we sort of set a general guideline of a couple of percentage points of outstanding shares which is about 2 million shares currently.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe of Stifel.
Please state your question sir.
I had two questions if I could the first was when you talked the last quarter and you gave your outlook for fiscal ‘15 you talked a lot about some pretty aggressive new product activity across the company.
I’m just curious as you go through the different divisions I guess the degree which that benefited the quarter did you have a lot of these new products shipping and I guess what sort of contribution do you expect from new products throughout the year? Chris this is Vince Byrd.
I would say yes we are on target to still launch well over 100 new items this year.
As you know we’ve also done that over the past couple of years.
I believe we actually had about $80 million of new products contribute in the first quarter that are not in the portfolio three years ago and we can turn to the three presidents but at this point we have not changed our innovation pipeline and what we plan to introduce.
This is Mark Smucker Chris.
And Just in coffee we are very pleased with the lineup of new products that we have coming out obviously Bustelo and K-Cup is a notable one.
But we do have new products in every segment and are launching a line of Folgers flavors it’s basically coffee flavoring in a very small container that is essentially a new segment.
So we are excited about what we have in the pipeline as these things go during this time of the fiscal year it is a little bit early because shipments have just begun but we are optimistic.
Chris this is Paul just from a Consumer Food perspective if I just add on to what Mark said on the peanut butter side and overall we are excited about the snacking opportunity obviously with Sahale but then also with Jif dippers and new product we’ve launched on the Jif side which is doing very well out of the gate.
Our seasonals and our bold frostings on Pillsbury continue to do well we are excited about the upcoming fall bake and in Fruit-Fulls for the Smucker brands again that’s early launch but we see some good results out of the gate and we are feeling comfortable that that’s going to be a great line in the future.
Steve do you want to comment also on your areas? Yeah certainly I think similar to what Mark said on timing many of the new items in IF&amp;F specifically Canada are around the baking season.
So those are really not impacting the business yet we expect those to impact the business in the second and third quarters.
And I think we’ll start to see the impact of Enray as we get later in the fiscal year.
There’s a lot of work on new distribution and new items from Enray.
So we are excited about it but the impact has yet to be felt.
Okay that will do.
It’s a great overview.
Just one quick follow-up may be for Mark on pricing in coffee and I guess there was a recent K-Cup price increase I’m sure you can’t discuss that if you have not filed that yet.
But I guess my question would be that as you look at the K-Cup business and you have seen some more aggressive promotional spending there.
Is that category likely to see a continued heightened level of promotional spending is that what’s proper for your business to try and regain some volume that’s there in K-Cups.
Chris this is Mark.
The short answer is yes there is increased competitive activity.
From a pricing perspective I would tell you that the increased competitive activity is more around the frequency of promotions than it is around going deeper and so I think that across the category you’re just seeing more activity.
But the relative pricing between brands remains more or less in line with our expectations just from being rational.
That said you are right we can’t comment on our pricing actions but in light of the competitive situation we certainly will evaluate it.
Next we’ll hear from David Driscoll of Citi.
Please state your question sir.
First question is just simply on the guidance.
Did the first quarter results meet your internal forecast and if the revenues are lowered for the full year what’s the offset that keeps earnings unchanged? David this is Mark Belgya.
The result of the first quarter were a little below where we planned.
But obviously it’s early in the year so we’ve maintained guidance and what you’re going to see is we’re going to see some productivity gains we think through the course of the year.
We are obviously looking at budgets.
There will be some marketing adjustments as well but to that point you can imagine with 5.5% of our sales and marketing if you do the math it’s $300 million and at quarter end to the year there is some flexibility as far as addressing that without impacting the businesses too strongly.
So we feel pretty confident to get that.
So it’s a combination of those things that we will see flow-through over the last three quarters.
My second question this goes to IF&amp;F I am curious here also about the quarter and the year in terms of profitability in sales in this segment.
In fiscal 2014 that segment had I think it’s fair to characterize it as a bad year.
And I thought you guys had indicated last quarter that F’15 would be much better.
I think Vince said in his prepared remarks that he did expect full-year profitability to be positive but of course that’s not true in the quarter.
So can just walk us through a little bit here you know what’s going to happen in this segment and how strong your confidence is in that profit forecast.
Steve I’ll start and I’ll turn it over to you for some details.
David your points are well taken and we still hold to what we said in my earlier comments about all three segments being up year-over-year.
Candidly last year was a tough quarter for this segment we do expect growth.
I think as Steve will elaborate certainly there were some things that happened that we are lapping and we’ll see a greater benefit of that in the back of the year particularly around the trade spend and food service.
Steve you want to comment further? Yes certainly.
The impact of this quarter was the Canadian dollar was the exits and the trade spend and if you remember we made those trade spend adjustments primarily in the third and fourth quarters.
So those are flowing through the income statements in the first quarter against the quarter that didn’t have those.
So as that volume normalizes that trade spend volume normalizes I think we will see favorability in the back half.
We also feel very strongly that the merchandizing programs both in our Canadian business and in our Natural Foods business are very strong for the back half and we’re seeing momentum in our Food Service business on our Folgers liquid coffee business.
So we think the businesses are actually individually performing well all of the noise should flush its way out by the end of the year.
We’ll have the exits behind us and we think we can make up quite frankly the currency impact and still show modest growth for the full year.
If I just kind of repeat something you second quarter is going to look a lot more like the first quarter here and then third quarter and fourth quarter is where you would expect to sizeable improvements in profitability within your segments is that a fair characterization? That is similar to how the see it.
I would expect the only difference in that I would expect a little contribution from truRoots and Enray business in the second quarter.
Moving on we’ll year from Mario Contreras from Deutsche Bank.
So this was the highest margin we have seen from the US retail segment in at least the last three years.
I’m just wondering how sustainable do you think this margin level is or you should maybe something of now a competitive activity over the course of the year eat into that a little bit.
Hey Mario this is Mark Belgya.
Yes we clearly had strong margins I think it reflected probably most key was a turnaround in the peanut butter business.
That has been the drag quite candidly for the last four or five quarters.
Obviously even though Coffee profit dollars were down they still maintain a strong segment percentage.
So I don’t see dramatic changes I think its normal course as we move through the next couple of quarters you do tend to see a little bit margin because as our baking business plays a larger part because of Fall Bake that as you know the lower margin business.
So I think you will see some pull down from the first quarter.
And then I think as you look forward it’s is going to become a bit of a function of what pricing does because as you know we focus on profit dollar growth.
So if we were to see any kind of significant price movement increasing that top line that will moderate the margin accordingly.
And then just one additional question with respect to the recently announced Sahale acquisition; just wondering if you could talk a little bit about the long-term opportunities for this business for example it has a large [sea] stock presence maybe some opportunity you got some Smucker products through that distribution and vice versa get a bigger traditional retail distribution for Sahale thanks.
Hi Mario this is Paul and again we are very excited about this Sahale opportunity.
The snacking category as you all know is growing very significantly and they have a really unique portfolio of products that are very great obviously tasting products but also they are positioned well little premium and that distribution is not full I would say so there is opportunity for us to gain distribution in other channels.
And then also the learnings that we get from them we can also apply to some of other brands.
So although it is very early in the process as we stand today we do feel very comfortable that there is going to be opportunity not only just for Sahale but some offer other brands.
So we are excited with that.
Mario this is Vince.
I would only add that although much of a smaller scale it’s not that too dissimilar to when we acquired the Folgers business that had a very strong presence in the dollar channel where we did not have much distribution.
And if you look at Sahale even where they are merchandised in the store and produce section et cetera will be new for us.
But we really think we’ll be able to leverage our go-to-market strategy and maybe a more traditional channels to really help grow that business in the future.
We’ll now year from Farha Aslam from Stephens.
Please state your question.
Mark you mentioned briefly your cost savings program would kick in as the year progresses.
Could you just reminders what the cost savings from your actions will be for this year and when those contributions will flow-through? As far as a combinations we said [day-to-year] that we will have about $10 million of additional benefits from the full-year operations of our [Oregon] plan and given that is kind of running smoothly.
So that we continue to see and that was in our original guidance and that continued.
I think in the other as we are going to cover some of that top line for all that we spoke to will really be a function of focusing on the spending side and this will hold through across our manufacturing facilities as well as a corporate function.
So that will be the driver I would say of most of the production opportunities.
Again it’s earlier in the year it doesn’t allow the team some flexibility to look at where some spending that might not be as necessary as originally planned.
That’s where we’ll focus for first.
And the second question is a coffee; now that you have taken your prize increase your in the second quarter how are you seeing the promotional cadence flow through versus competition is it in line with your expectations greater or less? Farha its Mark Smucker.
It is in line with our expectation.
As you know part of the reason for obviously we take price to be transparent with our customers.
Part of the reason we took in the first quarter was to make sure that we had our pricing strategy set for the key holiday period.
So literally as we speak we are seeing pricing move on shelf both in our own business as well as all of the key competitors.
So we would expect that relative price gaps will continue to manage and do a good job doing that and so overall I think the pricing across it the category and the segments within it are in line with our expectations.
Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley has our next question.
Just first on coffee could you talk a bit about the outcome or the impact of some of the shelf resets that have taken place in the category during the summer both on roast and grounds and your K-Cup business.
And then separately just on K-Cup could you update us just a bit on some of the efforts that you have in place to expand distribution in alternative channels where you feel you’re making progress currently.
When you look at the share trends which are positive you look at the 12 week share trends sequentially.
We’ve actually had some nice results in all of a segments; so K-Cup has stabilized and maybe increased slightly and then you look at premium in mainstream and those also have positive trends as well and we attribute that success to obviously our promotional efforts our brand support efforts.
And we have seen that shelf recess has occurred in the roast and ground space we have one and in fact we have maintained the number of items on shelf versus competition in the premium space some of the smaller or smaller brands would have lost and so we clearly have been successful on that front.
On the K-Cup side it’s a little bit more of a mixed bag clearly having Bustelo and some of our new items has helped us and I think as we are still trying to study how that has impacted us but I think while we would say it is positive and it just really varies by customer.
And then Matthew you had another question on K-Cup.
I think expanded channels which club etcetera (inaudible).
So in this expanded channels we did talk last time about dollar online and club and we have had some nice successes in all of that which has contributed to our success in the quarter.
Could I ask a quick follow-up as well on Pillsbury? I can definitely appreciate placing the focus on higher margin products going into the fall but your commentary didn’t seem particularly optimistic on competitive dynamics or category growth in the mixes sort of follow forward-looking basis.
Do you expect to see improvement in the business performance here over the next few quarters and can adjust it to your comfort level around the plans and sort of the promotional and merchandising efforts you have in place going into the fall.
Show Matthew this is Paul.
So couple of things I would say that we are optimistic on our business as far as the new items that we’re planning on launching.
We’re trying to focus on some of the key trends that are occurring from a consumer perspective things like simple ingredients and we have some products that we are coming out launching on that front gluten-free items and our seasonal items continue to do very well.
We’ve clearly focused on our frosting category which is where we are the number one and also it’s profitable for us.
In the last year there was about 200 items that were launched in the baking category alone and so that’s added to some of the complexity of the category and some of the additional competitiveness that’s taken place in that section and so some of those new items have been more fib-related and more I would say not as relevant as some other ones.
So we would hope some of that would get sort through and we would focus on more of the longer term trends that our items that we think are going after.
Additionally we think about our merchandising for Fall Bake we are a very good position with the Pillsbury business and when we think about oil oil is looking fantastic.
We had a very good quarter last year a great quarter first quarter and we look good for Fall Bake.
So when we think of our total baking business I think we want to include the Crisco brand as well as a Pillsbury brand.
So we feel very good about going forward.
Our next question comes from the line of Akshay Jagdale of KeyBanc Capital Market.
Please state your question.
A couple of questions on the K-Cup business can you give us an update on what your expectations are for K-Cup sales growth for those of 2015? It seems like the quarter at least from where I sense came in better than I thought on the K-Cup side comment has some pretty easy comps especially in the back half of that business.
You mentioned your share trends have re-stabilized and you’re getting some incremental pace and from what I know the new Keurig on the 2.0 is also going to be positive for your new products.
So can you just give us an overall update on sort of sales growth expectations and maybe talk a little bit about the 2.0 launch and so what impact that might have on your business.
Hi Akshay its Mark Smucker.
So I think we haven’t really changed our outlook in terms of we do expect mid-single digit volume growth on K-Cup and as you look across the segment shares are starting to stabilize a little bit and we have seen over the past 12 weeks saw the unlicensed growth has slowed somewhat and you’ve seen the license player shares also sort of settled.
We did fear as I mentioned earlier a small uptick in our share and so we are encouraged by that but of course we need to continue to support the business.
And then on 2.0 clearly we’re confident that we are with the right partner.
Our partnership with Green Mountain as we have said before has been fantastic and we continue to be optimistic about that.
We will in all of these formats that the 2.0 machine will brew and just believe in the consumer benefits that that new technology brings to bear in terms of flexibility and so forth.
Keurig has done a great job of building a strong brand portfolio and I think as you’ve seen in the segment with good support the strong brands winning brands will continue to win.
That’s helpful and then any update on your relationship with Dunkin obviously the trends in the premium coffee side continue to be strong.
So can you give us an update as to where you stand as it relates to the K-Cup business potentially.
Akshay this is Vince as we’ve said before our Dunkin relationship is also equally very very strong.
We continue to work with them on a premium side than it is to a number of new products.
We continue to look at opportunities between our two companies for growth that will benefit both them and us and there is really nothing new to report as it relates to K-Cup we’re exploring a number of opportunities between the two companies.
Just one last one on M&amp;A can you use an overall update on what you’re seeing in terms of activity in the M&amp;A space that seems to me obviously there’s been a pickup in general in terms of M&amp;A deals in the food space.
You guys have obviously made some tuck-in acquisitions so it seems to me that maybe valuations might be a lot of [rich].
Can adjust help us understand the dynamics on the M&amp;A side as you see them thank you.
Sure Akshay this is Richard.
Basically I agree with everything you said the activity has increased we’ve been able to get a couple of nice tuck-ins and enabling acquisitions which we continue to look for those opportunities along with Bolton and obviously occasionally some transformational.
But you’re right there is more activity in and we are in a good position to play in that space because we have a very strong balance sheet and a good currency in a stock if necessary.
So other than that I think you’re right on the analysis of where the market today.
Mark you might have a comment on that.
Obviously the only thing that I would add is when you kind of look at the transaction in depth what is different and what’s driving some of these multiples and valuations may be lost a few years ago and I think the one thing you do hear quite a bit and I know several of our peers have announced transactions there is this whole concept of buying down the multiples.
And so while you are seeing sort of this 11 12 13 14 times being paid in the market the ability of companies to take advantage of synergies and then also the step up invasive is really allowing companies to do transactions that at the end of the day if they execute adjusted properly you get them down to more traditional valuation.
So I think until the interested environment changes and there is evidence that maybe that strategy that will ][continue on synergies doesn’t play out I think you will continue to see this heightened levels.
Next we’ll hear from John Baumgartner of Wells Fargo.
Please state your question.
Just thinking about the retail consumer business maybe you could speak a bit to what you are seeing in certainly the peanut butter category.
It looks as though some of the price promotion in the Nielsen data has really increased over the past 4 or 8 weeks.
So just in light of that how are you thinking about the competitive environment there are there any risk to your peanut butter profit plan as fiscal ‘15 unfolds thank you.
Hi John this is Paul.
When we think about the peanut butter category right now we feel our business is very good and we think about the back-to-school we have great merchandising in place.
The early consumer takeaway seems to be very strong which we are pleased to see.
From a competitor perspective we would say that all the players we categorize it that all the key players are really playing responsibly.
It’s competitive there is no doubt about that we are seeing some deals which you typically see around this time of year back-to-school but overall we feel pretty good about the health of the category.
There are a lot of new items that are coming into this segment not only us but other competitors and we feel that’s going to overall increase the usage peanut butter.
And keep in mind it’s still one of the cheapest protein out in the market place and with some of the higher costs that we’ve seen on the meat side of the business meat side of the category protein we feel very good about where peanut butter is going to play.
Next we’ll hear from Robert Moskow of Credit Suisse.
Please state your question.
A question on Jif I though in your opening comments Mark you said pardon me it was Vince.
You said that we now expect peanut butter to return to a more normalized margins.
Has anything changed regarding your outlook for fiscal ’15 or was that always pretty much your expectation.
I think some people including myself I thought you might be able to overshoot on margins this year..
And then secondly in the mix anything you said that the mix Mark you did say that the mix would be different this year in terms of the segment and how they deliver profit.
Are you thinking that coffee will be a little bit less then you thought in terms of profit contribution policy and International Foodservice and Natural Food that’s going to be a little bit less than expected? Rob this is Mark Belgya I’m trying to clarify here on both your questions.
On first one the peanut butter because last year probably actually the last six to seven quarters was just much lower than the average that what you are seeing is return.
I mean mostly that profit gain in the [pulse] segment was due to peanut butter.
And that was doing their expectation and I think the growth in the business as you just is to continue so we’ll still see profitability.
But that was the big step up and then in terms of the just the overall profitability your take is correct I mean we fell a little bit short on the coffee side so the other two segments will continue to make up the difference to help land at the original guidance for the company.
Coffee had a very strong year Mark I remember you and I talking about this in fiscal ’14.
Just broadly speaking I think there is some concern that the big step up in profits over the last two years you and I talked about like $100 million step up can you still protect that step up is that profit in the profit pool that you expect to be able to hold on to that so there is no risk if that deteriorates.
Our expectation and you heard us say this a hundred times our expectation is grow every business every year and I am not saying that blindly but we would expect continue to maintain that portion of that overall profit pool and as we look to the year and would still see some profit growth just maybe not to the degree view originally had at the outset.
Got it still growing.
Our next question comes from Jonathan Feeney of Athlos Research.
In keeping with tradition a couple of questions.
The first is how specifically are you thinking about the timing of the launch of Keurig 2.0 with respect to how your modeling profits in that coffee segment.
I mean is that a significant factor in your thought process and I would imagine there has been you mention this in past before whether there should be some inventory build and perhaps maybe that’s affecting the timing of your profit expectations over the course of the fiscal year that would be my first question.
Second question would be on the M&amp;A front.
In a lot of ways the history of Smucker has been written by big transformative deals getting into new categories as you talk about with investors.
Have integrated those who successfully when I look at Sahale Snacks it’s certainly a kind of acquisition you’ve done successfully.
It is somewhat of a new category for you though but rather small and sort of niche oriented.
So I guess my question around Sahale would be does this tell us does this mean that if you did a big transformative deal it would be in the direction of something like a Sahale Snacks or sort of all options on the table as they have historically as far as on the lookout for bigger deals thanks very much.
Hi Jonathan this is Mark Smucker I will start with your question 2.0.
Really the contribution this year is minimal.
If you take into consideration that Keurig will be also settling 1.0 Brewers alongside that.
With that aside even if that were not the case it would take some time before those 2.0 brewers would make their way into a significant portion of household that would be meaningful across a business.
And so I would tell you that this year the contribution would be minimal.
And Jonathan if you’re satisfied with Mark’s answer I will answer the one on M&amp;A this Richard obviously our strategy is to own the number one brand it’s only the centre of the story in North America.
That allows us to play in a lot of categories that we are not in today.
So if you look at the transformational acquisitions I think you could be confident that we’re looking in a number of different categories that are beyond the current categories that we are in today.
We weren’t in coffee as you know six years ago and we are now in coffee in a place of significant role.
And we think that there are several other categories that could fit very nicely.
Now the Sahale acquisition is a nice feat and gets us into snacking category in a small way to really learn that business.
But we think that has some real expert growth as we’ve mentioned already but that’s one category we weren’t really we were dabbling in with some of the products but now that gets us in a bigger way.
But there are other categories out there that we do think would settle down.
We hope that at some point in time is something to be announced but nothing today.
Next we’ll hear from Chuck Cerankosky of Northcoast Research.
Please state your question.
When you look at the sales growth pressures in the quarter and some of it continuing into the year what attention might be needed on expense control? Chuck this is Mark Belgya we’ve been reiterating some of the points a little bit earlier is that being one quarter in gives us a lot of flexibility in terms of looking in and as you know any budget has some discretionary funds in that.
So right now the challenge of across the organization is to look and we will implement changes.
We’re not enough posts situation here I don’t want to come across as being that drastic it’s just being very prudent in cost management and using eight months of the remaining fiscal year to close a little bit of that and to maintain that guidance.
But there are levels that we can pull in dollars that we can pull back on from budget perspective.
Chuck this is Richard and just add to that we also haven’t given on original top line growth goals.
We go back to our sales team and say hey we were a little bit short in the first quarter how are you going to make up the difference? So it’s not just bottom-line we have some leverage we can pull to make sure we’re heading both of those.
Okay and looking at the Santa Cruz brand where it had some volume contractions in the quarter anything going on there that’s different from the overall organic category trends that might explain that or is it distribution related? Just curious about that brand’s performance.
Sure.
Hi Chuck Steve Oakland.
Chuck if you remember we made a conscious decision large piece of volume of Santa Cruz organic was the lemonade and that lemonade was promoted across traditional grocery at very aggressive price points 10 per 10 per organic lemonade.
Two years ago we stepped away from that and we’ve positioned that brand more consistent with the way its positioned across other categories and other beverages and we’ve taken those price points up.
So really other than that the Santa Cruz brand is very healthy today as is ours.
We had a great quarter in traditional and instant beverages.
So if you strip the noise out from the lemonade change actually we see growth in that business now and we see a lot of opportunities to extend it.
As you know it’s in pouched organic apple sauce its in peanut butter it’s in a lot of other categories.
Next we’ll hear from Jason English of Goldman Sachs.
Please state your question.
Mark on the last quarter conference call you could have detailed the algorithm in terms of gross profit growth expectation SD&amp;A growth expectations as well as sales can you update us on your thinking on each of those line items.
I think that there are not going to be dramatic changes from the original.
I’m in a little bit of the SD&amp;A should improve just from the commentary that we’ve had as it relates to an administrative type expenses and marketing and that’s where that would fall out.
But gross [profit] comments earlier there is a little bit of mix shift when moving from coffee that I can get I don’t think it’s significant original expectations and again keep coming back it was still our original guidance so you’ll just a little bit of improvement on the SD&amp;A side of the course of the remainder of three quarters and maybe just a little bit of erosion of gross profit but hopefully we can compensate that based upon what riches comments were enjoying some additional sales particularly in coffee.
When you say a little bit of erosion of gross profit are you comparing that to the first quarter or are you suggesting that gross margins could be down year-on-year? No from my original commentary for the fiscal year.
I don’t have exactly my language I know we didn’t just think of basis points increases out of the beginning of the year but I think we said that gross profit would be sort of in line with our income before tax expectations so its like 3% or 4% I think that still kind of where we’re looking at.
Yeah you would suggest that the gross profit would grow below sales modestly suggesting the modesty of your gross margin compression year-on-year.
It’s sound like maybe that’s still the case or it could be a little bit better is that fair? That’s fair.
And then in terms of sales you are expecting volume growth for the full-year.
It came in a little bit light despite the price investment this quarter and obviously the expectations for price to ramp.
How are you thinking about volume for the full year now? Yeah if you look across the business and again you always have to be a little bit careful because mix (inaudible) in to this because as you know in this quarter we had baking was down which was a large volume you know sales dollar of the margin business.
But I would say that we expected a modest increase at the beginning of the year and we probably see it tweaking down just a little bit to being flat.
I mean we’re talking about a percentage point basically.
So closer to flat but again mix will come in to play with the course of the year depending upon where volume shakes out.
Next we’ll take a follow-up question from David Driscoll of Citi.
Please state your question.
Thank you for taking the final question.
Just wanted to ask a little bit about the Life is good brand and what happened there? So generally it’s my view that launching a new brand is an expensive proposition especially in a category that’s got many many many many brands in there.
Just would love to understand kind of why did this brand fail what did you guys learn from the whole experience of launching the Life is good product? Sure David its Mark Smucker.
I would start just by saying that the relationship with the Life is good folks is fantastic and we really had a lot in common with those guys they do a very nice job with their brand.
But at the end of the day we did some research we felt that coffee and their brand did well together.
What we learned although the products were very good products but we learned was it that the relevancy of that brand was very decent on the coast so on the East and West Coast but elsewhere the brand awareness was very low.
And so we just saw a good trial out of the gate but poor repeat purchase because I think that the consumer has a number of choices in that category and that brand unfortunately just did not survive.
Okay final question from me unrelated Mark can you just clarify for me what is your marketing spending plan for the year? How much do you think that marketing will be up? Well obviously David we are still the team is still working through it.
I would suspect that it will be basically in line maybe slightly above last year’s spend.
And again just to reiterate I made this commentary on a couple of quarters when we’ve adjusted marketing is that we are committed to market in a good portion but there is still some flexibility and we underscore that were quite comfortable with what we have on air.
We did a lot of production last year so we got some great commercial that are still in the can to be run.
So we are looking at those dollars that either we had more flexibility or will not have a dramatic impact.
But I suspect it will be right about last year’s level or maybe just a tad bit above.
We’ll take our next follow-up question from Akshay Jagdale of KeyBanc Capital Market.
Please state your question.
Thanks for taking this follow-up this one is for Mark you mention the mid-single digit growth expectation for volumes in K-Cup.
I mean you are at 8% growth this quarter the category is still growing double-digit and your share is improving.
So why is that not - I mean I understand that you want to be conservative but is my characterization of it being conservative in light of the facts we’ve seen so far.
Is that the right characterization or why should we expect 5% growth when your share is improving and the category is growing double-digit.
Akshay the short answer would be that we’re still in the process of filling the pipeline with both new products and some of the new channels that we recently got rights for offset by some of the recent declines in the Millstone items.
Okay so still there’s a lot of moving parts and you need some time to get more visibility is that a good way to think about it? You got it.
And then just overall on your guidance for the full year so why did the coffee business margins or sales come in below your expectation what were the drivers of that was that the pricing to cost lag take of business can give us some color on that and maybe an order or magnitude.
Akshay this is Vince I think we need to take a step back.
I mean we grew the coffee business 2% in the quarter coming off a strong quarter last year and we grew virtually every brand and yes we might have had higher expectations we are very very pleased with where we started the fiscal year on coffee.
Again roast and ground has grown for nine consecutive quarters and I think we’re very very pleased with that result.
So yes it might have been slightly below our expectations but if you take a step back and look at those results if you very good and I think we’re positioned for the balance of the year.
Will now take a follow-up question from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
I think people listening to this call might want to go back to the beach but I’m going to ask a broader question about merchandising environment at retail heading into back-to-school and then also into the Fall Bake.
I’ve heard a lot of packaged food manufacturers lament the fact that merchandising has gotten overcrowded and that there has been a big shift to value channels and these have been kind of real limiting factors stop Are you seeing those same issues as you head into this fall and have you taken any steps kind of compensate for it.
How is this environment different from last year’s environment or merchandising perspective? Robert I think you’re correct if you read what’s going on in our industry and from what our peers are saying there is a lot of merchandising activity and some degree we are all competing regardless of categories.
But we feel very comfortable as Paul Wagstaff articulated earlier with both the back-to-school activity.
In fact one could argue that we have more merchandising issues than we’ve had in the last few years and then secondly as we look in to the holiday period we feel very very comfortable.
We feel comfortable with our price points across our portfolio and so there is no doubt that it’s a challenge but can’t use it as an excuse.
We have leading brands and we need to make sure that we get a fair share of those opportunities and programs.
And you said that you are very comfortable reduced price points.
Are those price points below where they were a year or two ago because commodities are favorable so that gives you that flexibility? Is going to vary by each of those segments as primary Mark and Paul have articulated because when that particular community rests and again Crisco Oil would be down peanut butter may be up et cetera et cetera we won’t go back won’t rehash them all but it’s going to vary.
And we have other questions at this time.
I will now turn the conference call back to management to conclude.
We would like to thank everybody for being on the call and hopefully you can get back to your vacations and that’s where you are.
I can get rest assured we are not going back to beach in Ohio.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen if you wish to access the rebroadcast after this live call you may do so by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 with a passcode of 5735316.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Welcome to the J.
M.
Smucker Company second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and all participants are in a listen-only mode.
At the request of the company we will open the conference up for questions and answers after the presentation.
Please limit yourself to two initial question during the Q&amp;A session and requeue if you then have additional questions.
I will now turn the conference over to Aaron Broholm Director of Investor Relations.
Welcome to our second quarter earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
Here with me on the call are Richard Smucker Chief Executive Officer; Vince Byrd President and Chief Operating Officer; Mark Belgya Chief Financial Officer; Steve Oakland President International Food Service and Natural Foods; Mark Smucker President US Retail Coffee; and Paul Smucker Wagstaff President US Retail Consumer Foods.
Our prepared comments this morning will be organized as follows: Richard will begin with an overview of our second quarter performance; Vince will then provide an update on our business segments; and Mark will close with additional comments on our financial results for the quarter and our outlook for the year.
During this conference call we will make forward-looking statements that reflect the company’s current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates and actual results may differ materially due to risks and uncertainties.
I encourage you to read the full disclosure statement and the press release concerning forward looking statements.
Additionally Last week we issued a press release previewing our second quarter results and revised full year outlook.
While our fundamentals remained strong we were disappointed in the results for our second quarter.
We have always managed our business for the long term but our coffee business fell short of expectations during the second quarter.
During today’s call we want to make sure that we answer your questions but also do not want to lose sight of the many positives in our business and why we’re optimistic as we look ahead.
The questions we expect to answer today are what were the drivers of our volume shortfall in coffee for the quarter; has there been a fundamental change to the coffee category; and more specifically between roast and ground premium and single serve.
In addition to volume are there other factors affecting the coffee segment profit? What are we doing to address the coffee issue experienced in the second quarter? Outside of coffee how are the other business segments performing? This morning we will devote a significant portion of our scripted commentary to providing answers to these questions.
As we shared last week second quarter non-GAAP earnings per share of $1.53 was the same as the prior year however this fell significantly below our plan.
We are pleased with the performance of our consumer foods and international food service and natural food segments.
As noted the shortfall was driven by the US retail coffee segment specifically the consumer response to higher price points reduced promotional effectiveness and ongoing competitive activities all contributed to the decline in volume for the segments resulting in lower net sales and segment profit for the quarter.
In the back half of the fiscal year we anticipate coffee volume trends to improve compared to the second quarter but to remain down from the prior year.
This combined with the relationship between price and green coffee costs resulted in the lower full year guidance that we provided last week.
Our teams have spent a great deal of time analyzing the recent results allowing us to conclude that this performance does not reflect a fundamental change in the coffee category.
We do recognize the need to continuously create value for consumers and have adjusted our tactics to address the current dynamics in the marketplace.
Vince will expand on our near term challenges and opportunities within the coffee segment shortly but first I will address the macro view we have regarding the at home coffee category and our outlook for it.
First we believe mainstream roast and ground coffee will continue to be very relevant to consumers as the largest segment in terms of volume within the category.
Despite the current higher pricing at approximately $0.05 per cup mainstream coffee continues to provide a strong value proposition for consumers.
The modest value declines in the overall mainstream segment for the last few years has been in line with our expectations.
Prior to this quarter volume for the Folgers brand has grown in eight of the past nine quarters.
Over this time Folgers has also gained dollar share in the mainstream segment and remains the dominant brand in this space.
We also see opportunities to innovate within the mainstream segment beyond new roasts and flavors to provide consumers additional convenience options and grow our roast and ground share.
Second with much of the category growth expected to come from the K-Cup and premium segments we are well positioned to participate in this growth.
Within premium the Dunkin Donuts brand has strong equity and resonates with consumers.
We have grown this brand consistently over the years including volume gains in eight of the past 10 quarters increasing Dunkin Donut’s market share in the premium segment over this time.
Within K-Cups our growth rates have slowed since we first entered the segment yet recently we have seen significant gains for our Folgers K-Cup and the initial contributions from our recently launched Café Bustelo K-Cups.
We remain confident that our brands will continue to play a key role in the growth of this platform.
Third we have demonstrated over time our ability to manage periods of higher green coffee costs while successfully growing coffee profits.
In fact we manage through even higher costs three years ago.
Lastly we remain the overall leader in the coffee category with a wide market share advantage.
As a leading participant in all key forms of coffee and segments we play a vital role for retailers as they look to us for insights on consumer trends and our overall perspective on the category.
For these reasons we believe our coffee strategy remains on point and we are confident in achieving our long term growth goals.
Let me now return to our performance for the quarter.
Overall our remaining business performed well in the second quarter and remain on track to achieve full year profit segment growth.
Within the consumer food segment volume gains were realized in Jif Peanut Butter Uncrustable Frozen Sandwiches and Crisco Oils during the quarter.
Segment profit increased significantly year-over-year primarily due to peanut butter as we anticipated.
In our international food service and natural food segments the underlying businesses performed well although the headwinds we’ve spoken to previously most notably foreign exchange and rationalized businesses continued to impact the reported results.
But for this segment we expect both sales and segment profit growth in the back half of the year.
As we look at the overall food industry all the participants continue to navigate through a challenging environment.
Two months ago at the Barclay’s back-to-school conference we spoke to some of the current dynamics including the certain segments of the consumer base are financially pressed and remain cautious that there are evolving consumer trends such as heightened focus on health and wellness and increased desire for transparency and the growing impact of the social media and eCommerce on consumer’s behavior.
All of these factors are contributing to the center of the store volume trends that have been the subject of much discussion.
Based on the latest [SCAN] data whether you look at the four 12 or 52 week period the total food volume across measured channels is down approximately 1%.
Partially in response to this promotional activities have increased as manufacturers and retailers compete for share.
At the same time traditional promotional tactics are proving to be less efficient.
We’ve seen this in our own business as well.
That being said we see some positive trends starting to develop.
Overall US retail sales including all sectors were up 0.3% in October.
A major retailer recently reported their first comp sales growth in more than a year.
Energy costs are coming down both in oil and natural gas providing consumers with more disposable income.
Commodity costs have in many cases stabilized with some at five year lows.
The latest consumer sentiment numbers reached a seven year high with consumers expecting lower inflation and due primarily to lower gas prices.
Lastly the moderate economic recovery seems to be moving forward based upon strengthening consumer sector and increasing consumer confidence.
To address the challenges and take advantages of the opportunities we continue to focus on innovation with an increased emphasis on products that are consistent with evolving consumer trends.
We’re also accelerating our commitment to those areas of our business that provide the biggest opportunities for future growth ensuring that our resources are aligned properly.
At the same time we are continuing to review all of our cost levers throughout our organization.
Lastly we have the ability to leverage our balance sheet to support future EPS growth be it through accretive M&amp;A activity or through share repurchases.
While most of our remaining comments today will focus on the second quarter and the balance of the fiscal year we look forward to sharing more about these opportunities in the months ahead.
We have leading brands and a great team of passionate employees.
We firmly believe that we’re moving forward with the right approach and have the right actions in place to provide more upside potential for the remainder of the year.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Vince for an overview of our business segments.
Let me begin by reinforcing a few key points.
First the short fall for the second quarter and full year expectations are driven by the performance of our coffee segment.
We believe these are near term challenges and remain confident with our overall coffee strategy.
Second within our other two segments most of our brands and categories perform well in the quarter and the segments remain on track to achieve our full year segment profit expectations.
Third as the overall operating environment remains competitive we will maintain a disciplined approach while continuing to focus on tactical opportunities to address the current landscape.
With that let me provide some additional color on our three segments starting with US retail coffee.
Volumes declined 18% in the second quarter reflecting greater than anticipated elasticity from recent pricing actions for our Folgers roast and ground business.
Our analysis of the second quarter has led us to a few key conclusions.
First the key driver behind the volume decline was consumer reaction to higher pricing for branded roast and ground coffee offerings in general and our Folgers brand in particular.
We believe this resulted in consumers temporarily delaying purchases within the mainstream segment and to a significantly lesser extent substituting private labels.
Second while single serve coffee continues to grow including strong growth for our Folgers K-Cup offerings in the quarter this did not drive the mainstream volumes decline over this period.
Finally this is not a fundamental change in the at home coffee category or our coffee business.
During the second quarter consumers saw significantly higher promoted pricing for the Folger’s brand.
This resulted from a reduction in promotional spending from the first quarter levels and the reflection of our list price increase that was effective in June.
Promoted price points on our core red can offerings increased by $2 in many markets representing a near 30% increase.
Historically promoted price points has been more gradually stepped up in smaller increments over time.
The rapid ascend in pricing combined with the reduced promotional efficiency and competitive activities resulted in consumer takeaway being much less than we anticipated most notably during the latter half of the quarter.
As a reference ROI data indicates volume within the overall mainstream segment was down 9% with our brands down 13% during the latest 12 weeks [SCAN] period.
Private label fared much better and was up 3% over this period.
While we expect these challenges to persist in the near term we are optimistic as we look ahead due to several factors.
We are beginning to see competitive price gaps narrow we anticipate the market will ultimately adjust to higher prices our price-to-cost relationship for everyday shelf pricing is consistent with historical norms we are tactically adjusting all of our levers including price and as previously stated our research indicates the recent declines were not driven by fundamental shift to single serve coffee.
Turning briefly to the rest of the segment the Dunkin Donuts brand was less impacted by higher pricing as volume declined 3% against a plus 11% comp in the prior year.
For K-Cups we are pleased with the sequential improvement in volume trends with a 15% increase over the prior year driven by 23% increase for the Folgers brand.
K-Cup net sales were up 12% for the quarter.
Looking ahead we anticipate there will be a heightened level of competitive activities in the premium and K-Cup space reflecting a new competitive launch.
Finally in regard to green coffee costs we began to recognize higher costs during the second quarter as expected.
While there continues to be speculation and volatility in the green coffee markets we have taken steps to provide good visibility into our cost structure for the remainder of the fiscal year.
Turning to US retail consumer foods we were pleased with the strong segment profit performance for the second quarter.
Volume was flat compared to the prior year as gains in several key brands and categories were offset by declines in baking which has a significant impact on our tonnage base volume metric due to the higher weight.
Looking at the performance within the spreads categories the back-to-school promotional period came to a successful conclusion during the quarter reflecting solid merchandising support and consumer’s desire for more low cost premium protein options.
Volume for the Jif brand was up 2% with strong growth from Jif Natural Peanut Butter.
Our Jif To-go offerings also grew significantly up 21% driven by our recently launched Jif To-go Dippers.
Smucker’s fruit spread volume decreased 3% in the second quarter as we experienced declines in traditional varieties against a strong prior year comp and continued softness in our sugar free and reduced sugar offerings.
Partially offsetting this was the continued growth of Smucker National Fruit Spreads which more than doubled year ago volume.
Momentum continued for Smucker’s Uncrustable frozen sandwiches with volume up 22% over the prior year this represented an 11% consecutive quarter of double digit growth in retail channels.
Combined with our Food Service Uncrustable business which has been impacted by planned rationalizations we have discussed previously companywide Uncrustable volume was up 16% in the quarter representing the strongest quarter of growth in the past two years.
Turning to the bake isle the Crisco brand performance was solid with base oil volume growing 4%.
As expected net sales for the brand decreased due to a price decline we announced in the fourth quarter of last year reflecting soybean oil futures being near five year lows.
Within the Pillsbury brand volume trends improved from the first quarter but remained down year-over-year reflecting softness in the category and increased competitive activities.
Our overall baking business is in the midst of the fall bake promotional period.
We are encouraged by the merchandising plans we have in place and the anticipated contribution of new items but expect a heightened level of competition to remain.
While consumer takeaway will ultimately be key to our results for the period we are optimistic for a solid holiday period.
Segment profit for the second quarter was up 17% over the prior year with much of the increase driven by improvements in peanut butter profitability.
As a reminder the prior year segment profit was negatively impacted by two factors: temporary and incremental cost that occurred in our Orrville and Scottsville manufacturing facilities and the timing of a peanut butter price decline taken in advance of recognizing lower peanut costs.
Effective earlier this month we took a 7% price decline on the majority of our peanut butter products reflecting our lower peanut cost position.
Finally in consumer foods we completed the acquisition of Sahale Snacks during the quarter.
We continue to project necessary sales contributions of approximately $25 million in fiscal 2015 with an immaterial bottom line impact in the first year.
The integration work is going well and we remain excited about the growth opportunities this business presents in the snacking arena.
In international food service and natural foods we continue to see the sequential improvement of underlying trends that was expected for the segment.
Our top line performance compared to the prior year continued to be impacted by the rationalizations in our food service hot beverage business which we expect to fully lap at the end of the third quarter.
For segment profits the items we discussed on our last call a weaker Canadian dollar and a higher run rate on trade spin in the US food service coffee continued to impact second quarter results.
The currency impact is expected to remain a headwind through the end of the fiscal year and into fiscal 2016.
However we will lap the trade spend adjustments recorded in the back half of last year which will provide year-over-year benefit for the next two quarters.
While these items have led to a lot of noise in the segment we are encouraged by our recent performance and are focused on our key growth opportunities as we move ahead.
These include in Canada building on the recent market share gains we’ve achieved across nearly all of our categories including expectations for a strong conclusion to the fall bake period.
Within food service we are gaining momentum in our portion control business and in the conversion of the customers to our Folgers brand liquid coffee offering.
Further as we leverage the capacity investments made over the past few years in our Scottsville facility we are looking to regain much of the exited school Uncrustable business.
This reflects recent changes to the USDA program which will allow us to manufacture the peanut butter used in the sandwiches for this channel.
We expect the related sales benefit to begin in fiscal 2016.
In natural foods our newly integrated sales organization is aligned to take advantage of the continued growth in the natural and organic offerings in both traditional and natural food channels.
This drove a strong quarter performance for our R.
W.
Knudsen brand and we look for this momentum to continue.
Our truRoots brand has been challenged by higher quinoa costs since its acquisition a year ago primarily driven by higher demand.
With costs moderating and anticipated distribution gains we look for a stronger back half of the year for this brand.
In closing it’s important to note that since acquiring the coffee business in 2008 we have successfully navigated through many business climates including changing consumer habits and fluctuating green coffee markets.
During these time we’ve been able to consistently grow earnings in the coffee segment and our brands continue to lead in market share by a wide margin.
We remain confident in our coffee strategy and the long term prospects for this business.
I’ll now turn the call over to Mark.
I will start by briefly summarizing our second quarter results.
The remainder of my comments will then focus on our revised outlook for the full year including additional color around the back half.
Net sales decreased $78 million or 5% in the second quarter reflecting lower overall volumes most notably for coffee along with unfavorable mix.
The impact of net price realization acquisitions and foreign exchange was not material.
GAAP earnings per share were $1.55 this quarter up 6% from $1.46 in the second quarter of last year.
Included in this year’s GAAP earnings were $8 million in unallocated derivative gains compared to a loss of $2 million in the prior year.
Excluding certain items affecting comparability as defined in our press release non-GAAP EPS was $1.53 in line with the prior year.
Non-GAAP gross profit decreased $27 million or 5% in the second quarter with gross margin remaining flat to the prior year at 35.7%.
The lower gross profit resulting from coffee driven impacts on volume in mix being only partially offset by an overall favorable price-to-cost relationship during the quarter.
A 7% decrease in SG&amp;A spend primarily driven by a reduction in marketing helped offset some of the lower gross profit.
Other items contribute favorably to year-over-year EPS comparisons were lower interest expense as we benefitted from a reduction in outstanding long term debt and last year’s interest rate swap and a decrease in the number of average shares outstanding resulting from share repurchase activity in the prior fiscal year.
Turning to cash flow cash provided by operations was $92 million for the quarter compared to $86 million in the prior year.
This quarter’s cash generation turned the year-to-date total to a positive $84 million compared to $168 million for the first half of last fiscal year.
This decline primarily attributable to great current year use of cash for working capital needs reflecting higher green coffee costs in inventory as well as certain timing factors.
With capital expenditures of $65 million in the second quarter free cash flow was $27 million for the quarter but $30 million negative for the first half of 2015.
While we expect significant cash generation during the third quarter as we complete the fall bake and holiday period we will not achieve our original free cash flow guidance range of $625 million to $635 million.
We now [indiscernible] 2015 free cash flow will approximately $500 million.
This reflects the expected decrease in net income as well as an increase for working capital.
Along with the working capital factors I noted previously we expect a temporary increase in our day’s inventory on hand as we manage industrywide risk related to the increased demand for transportation providers and other initiatives.
During the quarter commercial paper borrowings peaked at approximately $650 million reflecting the closing of the Sahale acquisition and seasonal working capital needs.
Before declining to the end of the quarter at $546 million outstanding.
We expect to pay down much of the remaining borrowing by the end of the fiscal year assuming no share repurchase or M&amp;A activities.
Let me conclude with our sales and EPS outlook.
We now anticipated 2015 net sales will be down approximately 1% compared to the prior year reflecting lower volume expectations most significantly for US retail coffee.
Overall this revised guidance implies a modest year-over-year increase in net sales for the last six months of 2015.
In the coffee segment we anticipate volume trends to improve from the second quarter but to remain down year-over-year in the back half with declines expected in the mid to high single digit range.
However higher net price realization and favorable mix are anticipated to result in segment net sales growth for the last two quarters of the year.
Within consumer foods we anticipate the first half trends to continue for the remainder of the year with lower price realization impacting net sales.
This reflects the recent price decline taken on peanut butter and the Crisco price decline taken in the fourth quarter of last year.
Finally in the international food service and natural food segment year-over-year trends are expected to improve sequentially in the last two quarters as higher price realization and favorable mix more than offset lower volume.
Turning to EPS we now expect 2015 non-GAAP earnings per share to be in the range of $5.45 and $5.65 the revision from our original guidance range of $5.95 to $6.05 relates to the coffee business.
The midpoint of our revised EPS range [verses] the back half of the fiscal year is approximately 6% below the prior year.
Looking at the puts and takes for the last two quarters of 2015 the primary year-over-year headwind is expected to be lower coffee profitability that will be driven by the anticipated decline in volume as well as sequentially higher coffee costs that are not expected to be fully offset by net price realizations.
Our profitability expectations for the other two segments have not changed significantly as we continue to expect them to achieve full year segment profit growth in 2015.
We previously indicated segment profit growth for the consumer food segment was anticipated to be significantly front end loaded reflecting the timing of recognizing lower peanut costs.
While we expect to continue recognizing lower costs the year-over-year impact will subside in the back half of 2015 and will be more than offset by the lower peanut butter pricing over this period.
That said consumer food segment profit for the back half of 2015 is expected to increase slightly over the prior year.
We continue to anticipate back half segment profit growth for international food service and natural foods.
This reflects the lapping of the food service trade set adjustments recorded in the second half of last year as well as growth in natural foods including incremental contribution from the Enray acquisition.
We now expect total SG&amp;A spend for the year will be down slightly for the prior year reflecting a reduction in the marketing expense for the full year along with lower incentive compensation expense.
This compares to our original 2015 expectations of a 4% year-over-year increase.
Related to the reduction in marketing it is important to reinforce that this is not a shift in our long term strategy of investing behind our brands.
With approximately $275 million in planned spending we remain satisfied with the level of brand support in place for the year including a strong on air presence while continuing to execute on our digital initiatives and other opportunities.
In addition last year’s back half included marketing support for our sponsorship of Team USA 2014 winter Olympics.
Our revised 2015 guidance continues to reflect approximately 102 million shares outstanding.
No shares were repurchased during the company’s quarter and the board recently increased our share repurchase authorization to 10 million shares.
In closing let me reiterate that we firmly believe we are moving forward with the right approach to overcome short term challenges and that when we make decision with the long term perspective growth will naturally flow.
With that we will now open up the call for your questions.
Operator I ask that you queue up the first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Driscoll - Citigroup.
I wanted to start off in coffee certainly a fairly startling event here in the second quarter.
I appreciate all the comments that you guys made in your prepared comments but maybe I’d like to ask just kind of simply do you believe that Smuckers was over earning in coffee in fiscal ’14 and that the fiscal ’15 correction is just a normalization? Then basically to that how do you know either way? I think it’s a very fair question.
We obviously finished last year very very strongly and would say that our margins last year were in very good shape compared to historical levels.
The only thing you have to keep in mind on a margin percent basis that’s going to fluctuate depending on where green is at any particular time.
Again we manage the business to try to grow segment profit year-after-year.
Again I think your comment is fair but certainly we think that we can continue to grow the segment profit of this business but clearly we are not going to do that this fiscal year.
My second question and final question is just on Pillsbury and the baking mix category the category certainly under some pressure General Mills has announced an earnings problem because of it and some other factors.
Have you accounted for significant promotional activities in baking mixes in your guidance? Can you give us some thoughts and color there? Yes we have accounted for all the different promotional activity we are seeing in the baking category and I think overall what’s doing well for us is we have some new innovation with our bold colored frostings and cakes.
Those continue to do well our seasonals do well.
We are seeing competitive challenges and we expect that.
When you think about our fall bake as we mentioned in the script we feel that so far we’re seeing some good consumer pull through and things look to be solid so we would anticipate having a good year.
That said we know there is competition that continues to increase and we have accounted for that.
Your next question comes from Andrew Lazar - Barclays Capital.
I had thought it might be somewhat easier to manage through the price increases this time around I guess compared to the last round of inflation if for no other reason then you were dealing with $3 coffee cost last time and I guess didn’t need to raise the absolute price of coffee at retail as much this time around.
So I’m just trying to get a sense of any perspective on that would be helpful.
Is your sense of maybe why there were some wide price gaps than maybe you had anticipated in the quarter in coffee do you think just purely based on where certain folks were hedged versus you and as opposed to there being anything more structural.
The first thing I would say is if you do rewind the clock back to those higher Arabica costs from May 2010 to May 2011 we took - that’s a 13 month period we took four price increases in that period and they were much closer in succession.
In this particular case in the quarter it is true of course we did take a price increase but because we felt that we had to honor some of our promotional commitments in the first quarter we continued to basically investment spend on some of our promotions to protect those promotions with our customers.
So lift price aside when you look at how our promo prices moved going into August and September that significant jump was somewhat unique to what we’ve done in the past and so the consumer did sort of experience some sticker shock and I think that if there is somewhat of a silver lining in this it is that not a fundamental change in the category we do feel that many of our loyal consumers took pause chose not to purchase in most cases chose not to switch to other brands and so that we do feel as we get into the back half we should see some of those loyal consumers come back into the mainstream segment.
The second part of your question was do we think our competitors may have been in a better position obviously we don’t know specifically what their positions are although we have a pretty good idea of what type of hedge they have taken and in some cases we believe a competitor could have been in a better place.
But you know by now all of that has probably washed its way through most of the systems so I think if not now very shortly we’ll probably all be in a similar position.
Your next question comes from Eric Katzman - Deutsche Bank.
I guess coffee is the question of the day but can you just talk about the shortfall in the quarter and maybe is it possible to break it down in terms of -- at least in terms of Folgers but maybe more broadly on the segment how much was due to elasticity how much do you think was due to competition and was there I guess some kind of trade loading and did that have an impact? Kind of where are your inventories now? Then I’ll follow up.
I’ll start with the last one the trade loading and customer inventories was not material and so as a factor we view that there may have been some puts and takes but overall not material.
Again it really was delayed consumer purchase in the segment that was the vast majority of the volume decline.
To a much lesser degree there was some competitive switching but as you can probably see from the share data where there was switching it went mostly to store brands and really insignificant amount of switching going into the single serve category.
Vince I think in your prepared remarks you mentioned something along the lines of seeing potentially increased competition in the premium segment.
Can you talk a little bit more about that? What are you seeing why are you saying that? Well I think you’re well aware that our main competitor has entered into a relationship with a national food service operator and will be launching their brand or have launched their brand in both premium and again that would be the bagged segment as well as in the K-Cups segment.
There was a small test done earlier this year and we’re anticipating a national launch of that as we speak.
Given their typical pricing strategy we anticipate there will be heightened level of competition.
Then just last one to Richard just a broader question during your tenure as CEO you’ve created a tremendous amount of value mostly through using reverse Morris Trust with Proctor and the various deals.
Your scale now is at a point where it’s probably a little bit more difficult to do that and so do you see the M&amp;A environment as a little more conducive? Have asks bid asks spreads narrowed a bit and does the fact that you’re more likely to use a debt finance transaction do you see that as maybe less compelling than an RMT or equal? How do we think about that? That’s a good question and two things it will be a little bit more difficult to do an RMT today the transaction value would roughly have to be about a $10 billion transaction.
There aren’t a lot of those out there.
I wouldn’t say never but we have a great balance sheet and we’re not afraid to use it for the right transaction so even though some of the prices are high out there right now in the M&amp;A area we do think there are some opportunities so we’re still on the hunt.
Your next question comes from Jason English - Goldman Sachs.
I apologize if I missed this in prepared remarks but can you comment on what you expect your marketing budget to increase or to decrease for the year? We said that for the year originally we were going to be up about 5% and as we look at the back half we think that the spend will basically be flat with last year.
So we took roughly a $60 million marketing reduction from where we thought we would be in the first half and we’ll be about flat to prior year in the back half.
That brings us to around down 6% versus coming in up 5%.
Last year you came into the year looking for a 10% increase and it came in down 1% so this leads to really my real question of are we just deferring some expenses into the out years by cutting marketing probably keeping incentive compensation subdued.
Clearly we have some problems this year we do have an expense problem leading into next year? I think in my prepared comments we tried to address the reduction.
I think when you look at marketing to the outset when you talk about marketing the natural reaction is we’re cutting advertising and I think we feel comfortable with what we have done to date on the advertising support across the brand.
There’s obviously a multitude of things that go into the marketing expenditure category so to some degree yes we are deferring a little bit but we feel those are clearly discretionary spends that will not have a long term impact on the quality and the equity of the brands.
Each team looks within their spend but again I feel pretty confident that whether it’s digital or any support for the major brands.
Baking we’ve done obviously fall bake is in place we feel pretty good about what we have out there and don’t feel that we’ve been overly negatively impacted by the reductions.
Your next question comes from Ken Goldman - JP Morgan.
Just a quick question for Mark Smucker first and then I have a second one.
I thought your answer to Andrew Lazar’s question was helpful I just wanted to ask a follow up.
As you think about maybe coming off some of those promotional commitments ripping that Band-Aid off a little bit more quicker than usual can you talk about why that took place what learnings you had from it going forward because Smuckers has always been in my view very smart about pricing so I was a bit surprised to hear you may have come off deals in this environment a bit more quickly or meaningfully than usual.
Yes I think we did learn something.
I think we learned that we wouldn’t rip the Band-Aid off this quickly again in the future and quite frankly as we went into the first quarter we felt that our outlook for the remainder of the year allowed us to continue to honor those commitments.
But clearly we do feel it was a bit of a misstep when the consumer went to the shelf and their last can of Folgers was at $6.99 and now they’re saying “Wow it’s $8.99? Maybe I’m going to hold off for a couple of months.
I think I can make this last can work and I’ll come back and check again in a month or so.” We truly believe that’s what’s going on in the marketplace.
Just a general question I guess for anyone who wants to answer it’s been over a year now that packaged food companies in general have been pointing to reduced promo efficiency as a driver here of top line disappointments.
So I’m just curious from your point of view what is the food industry need to do in general to stop the bleeding? We’ve heard about some of the issues I guess the lack of attractive display space but how does the problem ultimately get fixed do you think? I’ll try to answer your question.
I think as Richard noted in his comments we’re basically dealing with a flat industry and as we - if you’re growing if you’re not going through innovation you’re taking share of market from your competitors there tends to be a lot of trade money in the system today and I think we’re all finding that we’re not getting the lifts that we did historically.
In our case because of coffee prices being higher we naturally know we’re not going to get as high as a lift as we would at a lower price point but as Mark has indicated a couple of times they were even below our expectations.
I think ultimately it’s going to be a return of the economy that’s going to need to improve so we can get back on track.
Having said that innovation is very very key to all manufacturers and retailers and we continue to focus in that arena.
I would support Vince’s comment on innovation because the more and more we look at products that are really are true value to the consumer we can price for those.
Uncrustables are one of them an outstanding one it’s grown double digit so we really see that that’s a great area.
So we’ve been looking for more and more innovation that really is true innovation and not just another me too.
Your next question comes from Akshay Jagdale - Keybanc Capital Markets.
Just on coffee how much was the volume off by relative to your expectations? I mean we would have expected it to be at least in line with our prior year so it was off significantly.
If consumers are just sort of pausing that would imply that at some point they’ll come back and you’ll get this volume back so is that factored into your back half guidance or not? It is and we have factored in some recovery as was in the scripted comments.
We won’t get back to prior year levels.
There’s a couple of factors I could speak to typically in the mainstream segment given the size of the containers and so forth the purchase cycle is roughly about three months.
Then as it relates to promotional effectiveness typically when you see two or three promotional cycles pass typically the market tends to adjust to new pricing and so as we get into the back half of the year we would expect for some of those things to lapse and that’s driving whey we believe consumers will come back into the segment.
Then just on single serve can you talk about what drove the volume growth in that business? I mean sequentially clearly an acceleration in sort of the growth - you haven’t seen double digit growth now in a bit so can you talk about what drove the growth and then just more broadly what’s your read of the 2.0 launch and sort of the category resets that have happened how do you see the dynamics from here? Let me take your first one first.
So in our K-Cup business the Folgers brand did very well we actually grew the Folger’s brand in line with the category growth.
We think that our marketing activities as well as our pricing activities were right and that really helped.
And then also very much helped by the launch of new items.
In that would be some new Folgers items as well as our Café Bustelo brand as well which is also new in the marketplace so all of that helped on K-Cup.
As for the 2.0 it’s still very early as you know it’s going to probably take − I think we’ve talked last time 18 months to two years until those brewers are seeded sufficiently in the marketplace.
We’re still optimistic about the consumer benefits that the 2.0 Brewer provides and clearly our partner in that space has signed up a lot of new partners and so we think that’s going to help the system as well.
So there has been some settling out in the category itself.
I think one thing we can point to is that there are a few customers that are still trying to figure out the right mix between roast and ground and K-Cup and our actual roast and ground business may benefit a little bit going forward as the customers reconfigure their coffee sets.
Your next question comes from Christopher Growe - Stifel Nicolaus.
I had just one coffee follow up and then one kind of the bigger picture question if I could.
So on the coffee side you’ve indicated that there will be an imbalance between pricing and cost I think there was here in the quarter and I think you said that for the second half of the year.
I’m just curious is that due to any adjustments you’re making in promotional spending? Is it that you do require to take more pricing but you’re not going to do it because of the elasticity? I’m just trying to understand that imbalance that you expect for the remainder of the year.
There’s a few factors the first is volume.
As we said we don’t expect volume to get quite back to our prior-year levels and that is clearly going to have an impact on our profit dollars.
There may be some additional promotional spend that we’re looking at but we’re trying to be laser focused and very disciplined in how and when we execute promotions in light of obviously the recent results.
But we do feel overall our pricing is right versus our costs and is right going forward versus competition.
Then the only other factor that we’ve spoken to previously which is less of a factor is that we have seen some margin compression on K-Cups and that will continue through the back-half of the year.
Then just maybe an overall question on sales growth it being down 4% year-to-date obviously requires a stronger second half performance to get to your -1% for the year.
I’m just curious in relation to that with the peanut butter price decline in place right now is it mostly all contingent on the performance in coffee the better let’s call it balance if you will in between pricing and volume in that category that will dictate the ability to meet the full year guidance? Yes I think that’s right.
I think the factor will be coffee.
We’re gaining on it on price because we are going to recognize the year-over-year price increase on coffee and that will more than offset the effect of the peanut butter pricing and then we’ll also have a favorable mix that will come into play.
So any shortfall or quite candidly any gain over that estimate year-over-year increase would probably lie in the volume of coffee.
Your next question comes from Alexia Howard - Sanford C.
Bernstein &amp; Co.
So two quick questions the share repurchase increase can you make some comment about what motivated the need to [indiscernible] share purchases? Does it mean that it’s less likely perhaps that you’ll find a larger scale deal out there? Also can confirm whether those incremental share repurchases are embedded in the guidance for this year? Then my follow up question is simply around the food service coffee business that exit seems to be − or the impact of that exit seems to be dragging along when do you expect that effect to be behind you? Just a couple comments on share repurchase and the additional authorization by the board.
I don’t think I would read anything that it’s trying to drive either more or less opportunity in M&amp;A.
It’s not totally uncommon for us to have anywhere between five and 10 million shares authorized.
We do typically tend to be more around five million so some of it is just in the ease that we can go into the market and not have to worry about running short on the authorizations so I wouldn’t read anymore into that.
In terms of what’s included in the guidance obviously we have fairly significant guidance range.
I think as we made in the comments that it does assume the $102 million which is our current amount.
If we were to go into the market as you know just because of the nature of the waiting it would not have a material impact on the rest of the fiscal years but clearly if we did it would push it north of the bottom part of the range and again obviously it would affect quarter - end quarter but not have a major impact on the full year because of the waiting.
I can comment on Sarah Lee.
If you remember in our third quarter last year the largest food-service distributor in the country was a Sarah Lee customer private label customer and it took them a long time to replace Sara Lee as a national vendor and so that business we agreed to help them get into January and that business dribbled into the third quarter.
But I can tell you the amount of effort for the team yes the exits are still lapping in the financials but not in the effort.
That team now has integration well behind them and is focusing on optimizing that business and has seen a significant improvement in quality in margin in the roast and ground and the liquid items that we have in the portfolio.
I think that bodes well for the future of our food service away from home liquid business and roast and ground business.
Your next question comes from Jonathan Feeney - Athlos Research.
A couple questions on coffee.
The first is the economic environment interplay you mentioned this a little bit in the preamble about − and even in answer to a question about hoping a better economic environment will make things better for packaged food broadly.
It stands out to me that it was a much tougher economic environment in those four stage significant price increases took in the 2011 and early ‘12 timeframe.
If you could just first maybe contrast what happened this time what’s been happening this time with this price increase versus back then when it was pretty clearly a worse economic environment and maybe − since you had some different outcomes what would make you think that that gets better with a better economy going forward? It didn’t really help that much year-over-year maybe it did at the category level.
The second question I had was you made the comment a couple times that you don’t think that the coffee category has fundamentally changed.
In a given quarter I’m sure that’s right but you’ve seen over the past four years this single serve coffee phenomena go from nonexistent to over a third of the category sales now and I wonder what would be signs that the category has changed? When you make that statement is it household studies that you’ve done is it focus groups with consumers is it conversations with retailers what makes you say that the category hasn’t changed in a way that permanently sort of hurts roast and ground coffee and that it declines from here? The first part of your question just going back three years if you recall again as we did see volume impacted significantly but it was over several quarters it was over three or four quarters as opposed to over a single quarter.
So if you do rewind the clock back to 2011 or so we did so we see those significant volume declines.
Since then when our growth restarted in total our coffee business in the last 10 quarters has grown in every of those 10 except for this last one so the 10th one we were down.
As it relates to the category as a whole you’re right it has evolved significantly there’s absolutely no question.
Single serve has brought over two billion new dollars into the category in terms of the spend and so we’ve seen if you will the bedrock of the category the roast and ground has remained relatively strong.
We’ve talked in other calls about the mainstream segments and the roast and ground total declining overall in very modest terms low single digits and that has come true and so there’s no question that the category has changed significantly but we do still believe that roast and ground serves as a bedrock and K-Cup and single serve really has brought a lot of new dollars into the category.
We participate in all of those.
We participated in each of the areas of growth and the mainstream still stays very as we’ve said the bedrock still very relevant.
Your next question comes from Robert Moskow - Credit Suisse.
I just wanted to end with a peanut butter question.
Did you consider holding price on peanut butter? This category tends to be pretty inelastic.
I guess I was a little surprised to see a 7% price cut in reaction to lower peanut costs.
Was that part of the plan all along or did you consider maybe keeping prices a little higher? Good question and we look at the peanut butter price decline that we took into effect I think the first thing we always do is make sure that we’re passing along the lower commodity costs to our customers and then to the consumer.
We felt that was prudent to do in the case of Jif.
I think when you think about the Jif sales versus some of our other brands a significant majority of the Jif sales are sold at everyday prices and with the cost situation we were in we were having to do more discounting and promotional promotions which isn’t typically what we like to do.
So we felt by passing along the price decline to the consumers it really achieved the two objectives of getting the right cost on shelf and also reducing our need to do deeper promotional pricing.
So it wasn’t part of the original plan for the year but you came to that conclusion? No we figured that we were going to be taking a price decline this year.
Oh you did? Yes.
Your next question comes from John Baumgartner - Wells Fargo Securities LLC.
Paul I just wanted to come back to peanut butter pricing here and just in the context of a weak category in the volume sense and then consumer weakness how confident are you that promo or price cuts won’t end up deeper in the back half than maybe you think and if they do is that embedded in your updated guidance? First off I’d say the first comment about the weaker category it’s actually a strong category it’s been growing and it’s up and it’s really taking advantage of the consumer trend of looking for lower cost protein which peanut butter is about the lowest cost protein out there.
So we feel we’re right on trend with the consumers and that category actually volume wise is down pretty well.
So again we are confident in the back half of the year and we feel it will continue to grow.
Just a follow up in terms of bigger picture strategic questions about coffee.
I mean you’ve been there for about six years now you have a nice business through some M&amp;A over the years but in terms of how the business has evolved the food service profits haven’t really evolved as you had expected K-Cups growth has slowed as you mentioned roast and ground still primarily a pass through business sand you’ve also referenced McCafe coming in in January impacting the Dunkin bag business going forward.
So as you step back and look at your categories could you address maybe whether the landscape has kind of changed competitively versus a few years ago when you came into the category and maybe does that leave you to think more about doing something more transformative in terms of adding on business or more growth or just more stable in terms of cash generation? Let me take a step back and we can talk about the history of the category and then maybe Richard can talk about how we think about other categories going forward.
First of all I would submit that it’s been a tremendous success that we have added to the company.
If you think about when we acquired it at that time K-Cups or single serve was virtually unknown although it was beginning.
The primary driver at that time was the premium or bag coffee segment and at the time the relationship was entered into by the two parties it was anticipated that would be about a $50 million business and it’s now a $350 million business.
Secondly it wasn’t too long into owning that business we knew we need to look at our supply chain and our teams did a tremendous job of quite frankly rationalizing our facilities and getting into a strong footprint primarily within the New Orleans area.
Thirdly we knew that this single serve area was evolving and you had three or four players and quite frankly all the major players in the coffee category were not successful at that time and you had the emergence of Green Mountain and we quickly aligned with them and we were the first national brand to be part of that system.
Then when the Sarah Lee food service opportunity came up we felt that was a technology and a capability that we would like to have in our arsenal being the liquid coffee technology.
But as stated and as Steve has mentioned it was probably a little more challenged than what we thought but it gets back to our overall premise of waning to compete in all forms and segments and up until this quarter we’ve been successful in growing the segment profit year-on-year.
I guess I’ll stop there with the little bit of historical perspective.
I’ll add two things to that one to Vince’s comments we really like the coffee categories.
It’s one of the only categories that has actually grown in dollars and a lot has to do with K-Cups by $2 billion.
It’s gone from I don’t know a $6 billion category to over an $8 billion category and we’ve been able to participate in that.
There’s almost no other food category in certainly the mainstream sections that have grown that much by adding innovation.
Now would we have liked to have created the K-Cup category? Well sure but we participate in it and we’re great partners with Green Mountain.
But on acquisitions let me speak to that for just a minute.
We look at acquisitions in three areas enabling acquisitions we’ve done two there and those are things that just get us into new categories or new areas which is Enray and Sahale so it’s helped us in the snacking area and the [indiscernible] which is Enray foods.
On bolt ons we did Café Bustelo which was a great acquisition for the coffee category.
Then the strategic acquisitions obviously the Jif Crisco and the Folgers are strategic and we still see a couple of real opportunities in the strategic side to get some - basically as you commented to get us into another area in the food business that would be very important for us.
So we’re still looking at those and still think there’s a couple of good opportunities out there.
Your next question comes from Farha Aslam - Stephens Inc.
You guys highlighted that innovation is going to be critical for Smuckers going into drive future growth and that you’re looking for more differentiated and transformative innovation.
Could you go through your portfolio and highlight to us where your team is working and kind of the initiatives and the timing of those initiatives? I’ll go through my area and then turn it over to Mark or Steve.
But I think when you start with peanut butter we’re looking at again the protein trends that I spoke to earlier and we’re in the snacking area so our Jif To-go Dippers our Jif To-go products have done very well and we continue to push out new items there and there are some other areas that we won’t speak to on peanut butter that we think there’s some great opportunity with.
On crustables we continue to really drive that business in fact we sell about $300 million peanut butter and jelly sandwiches a year and that’s growing at double digit rates and we think there’s some opportunity to continue to push out on some new innovation in that category.
On the fruit spread side we’ve launched our fruitfuls which is 100% fruit in a pouch which is really on trend with the pouch type packaging that’s out in the marketplace as we speak.
There’s no sugar added and all the other ingredients are natural etc.
That continues to do well and we have some other items coming out in that front.
On the baking side we talked about we have a lot of new innovation coming out with our seasonals and some of the [indiscernible] that we’ve spoken to previously and so I think from the consumer food side and then Sahale with the new acquisition again that’s right on trend with the protein and snacking.
We think there’s great new not only distribution opportunity and gain for that product line but also for some new product opportunities and concepts we have that’ll be coming out here over the next 12 to 18 months.
In the coffee area as you know we’ve done a nice job of just on an annual basis with new products.
There are some bigger ideas that we’ve been working on behind the scenes that I’m just not able to share at this point but hopefully in the next year or two we’ll be able to bring to market some things that everyone including the consumer most importantly will find interesting.
I think if you look across our [indiscernible] businesses the Canadian business has innovated in the baking category with Nutra Flours and a number of new items.
In our natural foods business the opportunity to take Ancient Grains to both main stream and natural retailers and then Sprouted Grains I think the next wave of that has yet to really hit the mainstream which is the benefits of sprouting and from a convenience standpoint and a health standpoint etc.
So the Enray acquisition brought us sprouting technology as well that’s really knew.
Then in Santa Cruz we’ve got a number of new items whether they be nut butters or apple sauces or those things that are getting tremendous acceptance across both mainstream and natural foods.
I might just comment that historically we’ve looked to grow our growth 1% of the growth if we’re going to go 5% 20% of that would come from new products.
We’ve upped that to 2% and we’re actually over delivering on that but we just [indiscernible] last year because our success rates been pretty good.
The other thing is our success rate is good in the sense when we introduce a new product most of those stay in the marketplace.
We have a few failures because we know you’re going to have that but most of ours have been successful and stayed on shelf.
I was remiss in not mentioning one thing we’ve been so focused on our roast and ground business obviously for the last several weeks that I think I need to do justice to the team.
Our team has done a fantastic job not only dealing with the current situation but continuing to focus on the new products we do have out in the marketplace and I should mention our liquid items.
We’ve recently come out with a flavor enhancers under the Folger’s brand for coffee basically flavoring and sweetener in a liquid form in a very small liquid container.
In the next couple of months you’ll be seeing an ice coffee execution in the same type of container and we think those are great new products and they are gaining some relevancy with our millennial consumers so I should have mentioned that earlier.
Then just as a follow up regarding the promotions the center of the store is very promotional.
Have you reassessed how Smuckers goes to market manages promotions and thinks about promotions within the mix given that the economy may be improving but it might be a sluggish recovery? I would say we’re evaluating it daily.
I mean honestly we like most CPG companies have a very sophisticated trade marketing group and we evaluate pre and post every promotion major promotion that we do and I think you do see changing tactics not only by our competitors but by ourselves.
I mean it is a daily activity that that group is working on.
Perhaps some learnings as to how you’re going to market differently as a result of those learnings? I guess I really don’t have anything to add in terms of how we go to market differently.
You know we work with our major retailers and joint business planning out as far as they want to plan.
But I really can’t say that there’s been any major change in our go-to-market.
Now again Mark and Paul has spoken to price point things that we’ve looked at from time-to-time but we would consider those to be routine activities we would do every day.
Your next question comes from David Driscoll - Citigroup.
I realize the time and I do appreciate the follow ups a couple of questions here on coffee the Maxwell container was downsized I believe in 2012.
That represented a difference from the 2011 period when we had the $3 green coffee cost.
Do you think that’s a significant issue here on the promoted price points when you talk about this - I think you said $2 on the increase in the promoted price points? Is this Maxwell lower can size exacerbating the shelf perception from consumers? Basically I would say that since Maxwell House downsized I would point to our share gains and we actually performed extremely well despite the variance between the competitor and our net weight in the cans.
I think time has proven out that we can perform.
Given the current environment will we continue to evaluate? Absolutely.
So there’s nothing new that I can share with you at this point but it’s certainly something that is top of mind and as we have hiccups like this one we certainly will go back and reconsider.
I think the answer is yes to your question.
We haven’t quantified it but yes you can’t ignore the fact that that pricing gap half of that was probably driven by the size and so I guess very specifically it probably did have an impact.
McDonalds and this [craft] launch I find it fascinating that McDonalds has franchise they are going to go with K-Cups in grocery stores.
Is there any movement on this Dunkin K-Cup issue? I mean frankly I just ask the question where are these people? There’s nothing to report we continue to have a great relationship with Dunkin and Green Mountain and we continue to work the issue.
But nothing to report.
The final thing for me and I’ll end it things go wrong it’s part of life but in your judgment guys do you think the team reacted fast enough to this decline in the Folger’s volumes? If not what can you do to speed your reaction to such a dramatic decline in volumes? There were learnings from the way we handled our pricing increase this time especially on the promotional side and Mark said that earlier and we’ve learned from that.
When you go to the marketplace you can’t turn that around in one month or two months it takes a couple of quarters to do that because you have prices out there in the marketplace but we had some learnings and we’re adjusting because of that and I think you’ll see that in the back half of the year.
It truly did occur in the back half of the quarter and so it would have been very difficult to respond to anything given what we were seeing in October.
There appears to be no further questions at this time.
I’d like to turn the conference back to Richard Smucker for any additional or closing remarks.
I just want to say thank you for your interest in this company and for being on the call and asking all the intelligent questions and I’m sure we’ll have some follow up answers later today for individuals that call in.
Thank you very much.
If you wish to access the rebroadcast after this live call you may do so by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 with a passcode of 5860677.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for participating.
Have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the J.
M.
Smucker Company’s Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all participants are in a listen-only mode.
At the request of the Company we will open the conference up for questions-and-answers after the presentation.
Please limit yourself to two initial questions during the Q&amp;A session and requeue if you then have additional questions.
I will now turn the conference over to Aaron Broholm Director Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our third quarter earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
Here with me on the call are Richard Smucker Chief Executive Officer; Vince Byrd President and Chief Operating Officer; Mark Belgya Chief Financial Officer; Steve Oakland President International Foodservice and Natural Foods; and Mark Smucker President US Retail Coffee.
Our prepared comments this morning will be organized as follows: Richard will begin with an overview of our third quarter performance; Vince will then provide an update on our business segments; and Mark will close with additional comments on our financial results for the quarter and our outlook for the full-year.
During this conference call we will make forward-looking statements that reflect the Company’s current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates and actual results may differ materially due to risks and uncertainties.
I encourage you to read the full disclosure statement in the press release concerning forward looking statements.
Additionally please note the Company uses non-GAAP results for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.
Discussion on non-GAAP information is detailed in our press release located on our corporate website at jmsmucker.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the website.
If you have any follow up questions after today’s call please contact me.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Aaron.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
As you know last week we announced the signing of a definitive agreement to acquire Big Heart Pet Brands.
We are excited to be adding this business to the Smucker portfolio as a third platform for growth along with our existing food and coffee businesses.
We look forward to sharing more on the transaction when we present at Cagney next week.
As we work to close the acquisition by the end of the fiscal year we remain sharply focused on our existing businesses and we will continue to execute on our plans and initiatives.
To that end the remainder of our prepared comments today will address the third quarter performance and the outlook for our current business.
Let me began with an overview of the third quarter results.
Our Coffee segment performance reflected many of the competitive dynamics that we discussed on our last call in November.
While volume and sales trend showed improvement from the second quarter.
Coffee results fell slightly short of our expectations for the third quarter.
However we were pleased with the solid performance of all of our other businesses.
Total company net sales declined 2% compared to the prior year reflecting modest declines in each of our three segments.
In coffee lower volume for the Folgers brand was essentially offset by a higher price realization.
The Dunkin Donuts brand performed well with volume inline with a strong quarter in the prior year.
Cafe Bustelo volume was up 5%.
Within consumer foods volume gains were achieved in a number of our key brands and categories following a successful holiday season.
Most notably volume was up in Jif Peanut Butter Smucker’s fruit spreads Crisco oils and Uncrustables frozen sandwiches.
The previously announced price decreases on Jif and Crisco drove the next sales decline compared to the prior year.
Lastly the International Foodservice and Natural Foods segment excluding the impact of foreign currency and the foodservice business rationalization net sales increased.
We are encouraged to have fully lapsed the business rationalization impact in the quarter and look forward to improve top line trends for the segments as we move ahead.
Non-GAAP operating income was down $22 million or 8% which was entirely driven by a 17% decline in coffee segment profit.
Consumer foods and International Foodservice and Natural Foods achieved strong segment profit growth of 9% and 13% respectively for the quarter.
Overall this resulted in non-GAAP earnings per share of a $1.54 compared to a $1.61 in the prior year.
As Mark will discuss in a moment we are adjusting our guidance approach for the rest of this year as we expect the Big Heart Pet Brands acquisitions to close during the fourth quarter which will have a significant impact on reported results.
However at a high level we continue to anticipate the consumer foods and International Foodservice and Natural Foods segments well deliver full-year results in line with our most recent guidance.
Coffee results in the fourth quarter are now projected to fall slightly shorter of our previous expectations.
While we are disappointed with our Coffee business for this fiscal year we still firmly believe that it’s a great category; we have grown segment profit in five out of the six years that we’ve owned it.
While the category is evolving we are participating and not just the traditional segment but also in the segments driving category growth.
With anticipated stabilization in green coffee costs and our current initiatives we expect to get coffee back on track for next fiscal year.
Finally the organizational changes announced on Monday provide continued talented leadership across our business.
These changes were designed to continue to drive our core businesses of consumer foods and coffee while allowing Vince with 38 years of experience at Smucker’s to focus along with the Dave West on a smooth integration of the pet food business and achieving our targeted $200 million in synergies.
We look forward to welcoming Dave West to our team which we believe is one of the best in the industry.
With that I will now turn the call over to Vince for further comments on our business segments.
Thank you Richard and good morning everyone.
Let me begin by summarizing the key points I would like to make today.
First we are pleased with the performance of our consumer foods and International Foodservice and Natural Food segment.
Most of the brands and categories in these segments performed well in the quarter reflecting one of the most successful holiday and return-to-school promotional periods in the Company’s history.
Second volume and sales performance for our coffee segment improved from the second quarter.
However we now expect our coffee results for the fourth quarter to below our previous expectations as we anticipate current competitive dynamics to remain a headwind.
Lastly we are excited on the plans that will further strengthen our coffee business as we move forward and remain confident with our overall coffee strategy.
With that let me provide some additional color on our three segments beginning with U.S.
retail coffee.
During our second quarter we discussed the key dynamics that have impacted our recent coffee volume performance specifically consumer response to higher promoted pricing on our core roast and ground offerings reduced promotional efficiency and competitive activities as expected volume trends improved this quarter as compared to our second quarter.
However promoted price gaps on-shelf remains wider than anticipated which we expect to continue in the fourth quarter.
Based upon recent consumption data for the last 52-week period volume for the overall mainstream segment is down approximately 5% driven by price elasticity on the Folgers brand.
Our analysis indicates that half of this decline is a result of consumer purchasing less frequently the remainder is due to consumer switching to other forms as we anticipated.
Our volume was further impacted by consumer substituting lower price competitive mainstream roast and ground offerings.
The year-over-year decline in the third quarter segment profit remain similar to what experienced in the second quarter in addition to lower volume the impact of higher recognized green coffee cost continued.
Further we increased price investments in our premium and K-Cup and offerings in response to competitive activities resulting in a significant impact on near-term profitability.
As we enter the fourth quarter we expect continued softness driven by ongoing competitive activity higher green coffee cost compared to the prior year and reduced promotional effectiveness.
With that said we are taking actions to address the current challenges while further positioning our coffee business for a long-term success and for a number of reasons we are optimistic as we look ahead.
First remain committed to strengthening of the long-term health of our brands through a focus on brand support innovation responsible pricing and promotional activities and ensuring our coffee constantly provides the taste profile that consumers come to expect from our brand.
Secondly in the second quarter of fiscal 2016 we will begin to convert our core Folgers roast and ground items to a smaller canister we look forward to providing consumers with a lower price point without compromising quality and improving our competitive positioning within mainstream coffee.
Third given the current market conditions for green coffee we anticipate improvements in our cost structure in fiscal 2016 which will also allow us to achieve lower promoted price points.
Fourth we're well-positioned in the premium segment although we anticipate some volume softness in the near-term we are optimistic for the potential of The Dunkin Donuts business which continues to benefit from the strong coffee heritage of The Dunkin Donuts brand.
Our partnership with Dunkin remains strong and we continue to explore opportunities for growth.
And lastly we are capitalizing on the growing convenience trend.
This includes an expanding K-Cup platform reflecting this year’s strong launch of the Café Bustelo K-Cups and the introduction of new offerings in the beginning of the next fiscal year.
Overall we expect our innovation packaging downsize and projected lower green coffee costs will allow us to grow our Coffee segment profit in fiscal 2016 at a higher rate than our overall long-term organic growth objective.
Turning to U.S.
Consumer Foods segment our momentum continues and during the third quarter concluded one of the most successful holiday and return to school periods in the company’s history.
Our Spreads business had a strong quarter highlighted by volume growth of 2% for Smucker’s Fruit Spreads and 7% for the Jif brand.
In addition both volume and sales for Smucker Uncrustables Frozen Sandwiches were up 10% representing the 12th consecutive quarter of double-digit growth in retail channels for the Uncrustable business.
In the bake isle the Crisco brand continued it solid performance with base oil growing 4% against a strong 22% prior year comp.
In addition we are encouraged the volume for the Pillsbury brand remain comparable to the prior year given the current softness in the baking category and increased competitive activities.
Looking across all of our consumer foods businesses for the last 12 week scan period we are pleased to have maintained or grow our volume and dollar share in essentially every key category in which we compete.
Segment profit for the third quarter was up 9% over the prior year bringing the year-to-date increase to 15% which was primarily driven by more normal cost of price ratio along with the contributions of volume.
Well lower marketing expense also contributed to the segment profit growth we expect our full-year marketing spend and consumer food segment to be inline with the prior year and remain confident in the level of brand support.
In the coming months we look forward to a couple of key milestones in our consumer foods business.
In the fourth quarter we expect our new peanut butter facility in Memphis Tennessee to begin production in line with our plan timing.
In addition we are on track to complete the integration of the Sahale Snack acquisition by the end the fourth quarter and remain excited about the growth opportunities for this business.
In the International Foodservice and Natural Foods segment we expected segment profit growth to turn positive in the second half of our fiscal year and that has been the case.
Third quarter segment profit was up 13% over the prior year including the offsetting effects of foreign currency in the current year and the foodservice trade spending adjustment last year.
As we entered the fourth quarter and look ahead to fiscal 2016 the impact of foreign currency is expected to increase due to further weakening of the Canadian dollar.
However we have now lapped the other headwinds that have impacted the International Foodservice and Natural Foods segment for the past couple of years.
We are encouraged by the momentum developing across all of our businesses in this segment and look for this to continue as we remain focused on our key growth opportunities.
Our Canadian business also had a successful holiday big season across nearly all brands.
In addition we look forward to capitalizing on the growth potential for the Big Heart Pet Brands business as they currently have a modest presence in Canada.
Within foodservice we had a strong third quarter for Smuckers branded portion control offerings Folgers roast and ground coffee and Uncrustables frozen sandwiches.
And we look for these trends to continue specific to the Uncrustable business we expect to see the initial benefits from reentering the USDA school programs in the fourth quarter as we anticipate regaining the exited businesses over the next few years.
And lastly on natural foods we look to build on the strong performance of our branded beverage portfolio participating in the continued growth in natural and organic offerings in both the traditional and natural food channels.
In closing let me reinforce that we are excited about our plans that we have in place to grow our businesses and remain optimistic as we look forward.
I will now turn the call over to Mark.
Thank you Vince.
Good morning everyone.
I will start by briefly summarizing our third quarter results and then conclude with additional comments related to our outlook for the remainder of the year.
Net sales decreased $26 million or 2% in the third quarter reflecting lower overall volume primarily driven by coffee.
The combined impact of positive net price realization and unfavorable mix was immaterial.
GAAP earnings per share were $1.58 this quarter compared with $1.59 in the third quarter of last year.
Included in this year’s GAAP earnings were $13 million in unallocated derivative gains compared to a gain of $4 million in the prior year.
Excluding these and certain other items affecting comparability as described in our press release non-GAAP EPS was $1.54 a decline of 6% in the prior year.
The quarter-over-quarter results were primarily impacted by a decline in non-GAAP gross profit which decreased $34 million or 6%.
Gross margin declined 170 basis points to 35.4%.
The net impact of changes in commodity cost to pricing which includes both list price and promotional spending was unfavorable most notably for coffee and peanut butter.
In addition lower coffee volume and the related impact on overall mix also contributed to the decline.
Partially offsetting the lower gross profit was a 5% decrease in SD&amp;A driven by lower marketing expense.
And significant portion of the reduction this quarter and year-to-date was utilized to support price.
Factoring in the lower SD&amp;A non-GAAP operating income decreased 8%.
Factors below operating income that benefited year-over-year EPS comparisons were lower interest expense reflecting a reduction in the long-term debt and a decrease in a number of average shares outstanding resulting from share repurchases activity in the prior fiscal year.
Turning to cash flow cash provided by operations was $428 million for the quarter compared to $421 million in the prior year.
As a reminder third quarter is our key cash generating period as the fall bake and holiday periods wind down.
The quarter’s cash from operations increases our year-to-date total to $512 million compared to $589 million for the first three quarters of last fiscal year.
The decline for the year is primarily attributable to a greater current year use of cash for working capital needs reflecting higher green coffee costs and ending inventory as well as certain timing factors.
These include a temporary increase in our date of inventory on hand as we prepare for our transition of coffee canister size and managing industry-wide risk related to the increase demand for transportation providers.
Contributing to cash was $53 million received as a result of an early termination of interest rate swap.
With capital expenditures of $48 million in the quarter free cash flow was nearly $380 million for the quarter or year-to-date total of $350 million.
For the fiscal year we are still projecting to spend approximately $240 million in CapEx.
Finally we ended the quarter with approximately $265 million in short-term borrowings.
Let me conclude with comments around our 2015 guidance.
As Richard indicated we are modifying our guidance approach for the rest of this year due to the pending acquisition of Big Heart Pet Brands which is expected to close during the fourth quarter.
Let me begin by previewing our net sales estimate.
We now expect a modest decrease in net sales for the last three months of the fiscal year compared to the same period last year.
This primarily reflects softer volume expectations for U.S.
Retail Coffee compared to our previous outlook.
As we see competitive pricing in roast and ground coffee continuing through the fourth quarter.
We expect this result in volume in our segment being down low to mid-teens in the quarter.
Much of this tonnage impact is expected to be offset by higher price realization and mix.
Net sales expectations in our two other segments have not changed significantly from the outlook provided last quarter.
Consumer food sales are anticipated to be down in the fourth quarter resulting from price declines taken during the past year on peanut butter and oils in a solid prior year volume comparison.
The Sahale Snacks acquisition will have a modest contribution in the quarter.
In the International Foodservice and Natural Foods segment we expect sales to be up slightly primarily driven by growth in our Foodservice business based on these fourth quarter estimates the company now expects annual net sales to decrease by approximately 3% compared to the prior fiscal year.
In terms of non-GAAP earnings per share we expect fourth quarter EPS to fall below analyst consensus estimates.
As a result full-year earnings per share are expected to be below the midpoint of our previous 545 to 565 guidance range by approximately 3%.
While we plan to decrease in the fourth quarter earnings from a year ago our revised outlook for coffee volume is the primary cause as profit projections for our two other segments have not changed significantly.
In consumer foods fourth quarter segment profit is expected to decline modestly versus the same period last year consistent with our prior commentary as segments full-year profit growth would be front half loaded.
Conversely with in International Foodservices and Natural Foods segment profit is expected to be up over the prior year in fourth quarter partially reflecting the lapping of the prior year trade spending adjustments along with anticipated growth in our Foodservice and Natural Foods businesses.
However given the further weakening of the Canadian dollar fourth quarter segment profits for International Foodservice and Natural Foods will be slight below the amount assumed in our previous guidance range.
In addition certain deal cost and employee related expenses incurred in the third quarter were not reflected in the previous guidance.
As we consider the closing of the Big Heart Pet Brands transaction it is important to point out key factors that will ultimately impact our reported EPS for the year albeit for roughly one moth or so.
This includes earnings contribution from Big Heart for the period from the closing date through April 30 incremental interest amortization and tax expense the impact of any financing related cost beyond interest expense and the issuance of 17.9 million shares which will have a different impact on weighted average shares for the fourth quarter versus the full year.
In closing we recognized the significance of the profit challenges in the fourth quarter but remain confident in both our ability to address this in the near-term and our long-term coffee strategy.
Further we are pleased with the performance of our other businesses and look forward to even more growth in the future.
And finally we are very excited to close the Big Heart Pet Brands acquisition which will provide another platform for growth as we move ahead.
With that we will open up the call to your questions.
Operator if you please queue up the first question.
Thank you.
The question-and-answer session will begin at this time [Operator Instructions].
As a reminder please limit yourself to two questions during the Q&amp;A session.
Should you have additional questions you may requeue and the Company will take the questions as time follows.
Please stand by for the first question.
Our first question comes from Eric Katzman from Deutsche Bank.
Hi good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Okay so it sounds like the Consumer and the International Foodservice et cetera divisions those two are in pretty good shape.
Coffee - is this for the fourth quarter being so challenged are you kind of letting some of the trade inventories that maybe a built up bleed through maybe also as part of the change to the size of the Folgers can? Or is there a big A&amp;P spending boost or a combination thereof? Because if it's all Coffee it seems like a pretty dramatic falloff from the third quarter to the fourth quarter? Hey Eric this is Mark Smucker.
Yes on the fourth quarter what were basically seeing is - there is two key things.
We expect that the promotional efficiencies that have been not as great as we would have like or going to how they continue in the fourth quarter and there is a lot of competition we still have there is a competitive launch in the premium segment.
But the other thing is we are laughing our lowest green coffee cost from last year.
So we experienced the lowest green coffee cost in our fourth quarter last year and that’s really what’s driving it.
So rather than invest more than we have we feel that our pricing is right where we need to be and we are going to weather it.
Okay.
And then I guess Vince you gave a couple of comments around the changes you're going to make so that hopefully FY16 Coffee is in better shape.
Is there some kind of restructuring or significant cost reduction effort that's going to give some investors confidence that that's in fact going to be a tailwind? Yes Eric this is obviously Vince and now I can turn it to Mark for more color and we’ll provide a little more detail at Cagney next week.
But as we look forward the reason we are confident that roasting ground can improve its trends it’s all about being more competitive on shelf.
And there is two main drivers that will help us do that is the Canister downsize where we will pass those savings on to our consumers we believe green coffee cost probably as we go to second quarter on will probably give us some relief.
Both of those things will make us more competitive either everyday are on promotion.
We have some great innovation that’s in the pipeline that we are looking forward to and we’ll explain more on that at Cagney next week.
But we do believe we’ll be able to grow this business get it back on track earlier into our second quarter of next year.
Okay and then just last follow-up to Richard.
One of the questions I've gotten since the pet food acquisition was announced was I think most investors expected Coffee to be problematic.
Do you feel like the organization is in enough shape obviously Paul left but is the organization in good-enough shape that with all the coffee problems that the integration of pet along with the leverage that you're going to be adding will be okay? Yes first of all we feel very strong about our team we’ve got as I said confidence in our team and the best team in the industry we believe and we’ve made some obviously significant changes just recently which we announced earlier this week.
Aligning the right people to head the right businesses to make that happen and then bringing Dave West on board who has got tremendous experience and Dave and Vince working hand-in-hand to make sure the integration goes well and that we hit the synergies and Mark and Steve driving the base businesses.
We really feel good about the team and the excitement around here is palpable.
I mean our team is very very excited to get there to get into the pet food business.
So we are very confident in the team that we’ve got and very excited about the talent that we’re getting from Big Heart Pet food business and combined with our talent we are very confident.
Okay thanks see you next week.
And we’ll go next to Andrew Lazar from Barclays.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Good morning Andrew.
I think in the remarks in the press release this morning you talk a bit about not having fully covered the higher coffee costs yet with pricing but also having I guess peanut butter pricing drop ahead of you getting the benefit of lower costs in your P&amp;L? So it kind of seems like it's a getting hit on the way up and the way down situation which I guess is typically not the way I've remembered the pass-through model more generally working.
I think companies like yours usually at least got an outsized or disproportionate benefit on the way down.
And so I guess I'm just trying to get a sense has something changed more structurally here in the way that pass-through model works do you think? Or is there really something more transitory with either the way consumers or retailers are behaving kind of in the current environment which is admittedly difficult? Andrew this is Vince.
I would say in a general sense we’ve always said that we try to be as transparent as we can with our pricing and pass it on up or down as we need to maintain our margins.
You may recall in peanut butter we did get sort of upside down with peanut cost a couple of years ago because we had to intensify growers to grow peanuts in that being a very large bumper crop and at the end of the day our competitors where in the better positioned to benefit from that and we were because of the commitment we had to make being the largest procure of peanuts in the United States.
Accordingly then we had to be more competitive on shelf so we did some pricing and promotional activities ahead of when our costs were actually realized.
We are now and it’s one other reason our consumer foods segment is had a nice run as of that price cost ratio is where it needs to be.
As it relates to coffee I would say that fundamentally that nothing has changes except that the competitive level of promotional activity and debt caused us to go deeper and more frequent then we would have otherwise.
And as Mark articulated earlier we try to balance all of those indications but clearly where coffee costs are it’s had an impact on our volume but structurally we still think the same way about our pricing mechanisms.
That's helpful and then just quickly a follow-up on Coffee which would be the canister size change.
Is that basically being changed to be sort of in line with where the competitive set is or are you setting a different standard out there? No basically in line.
This is Mark.
Thanks very much.
See you all next week.
Thanks.
And we will go next to Ken Goldman from JP Morgan.
Hi and thank you for the question.
Can you walk us a bit through a little more of the reasoning behind the management changes you made earlier this week I think it feels like a month ago but I think its just a few days ago.
Are some of the moves being contemplated maybe prior to Paul’s resignation because that really necessitate I guess some of the switches that are happening and Mark since you are on the call I guess I’ll ask it directly how do you personally feel about that shift for you and how favorable were you to it.
This is Richard I’ll start.
Obviously we had two significant changes in the past several months first was Paul’s departure and then second was the addition of Big Heart Pet Brands either one of those required us to relook at our organizational structure and combined obviously it gave us the need and opportunity to restructure.
So those were the drivers and as I said earlier I think the team that we have in place and where we put them in terms of their new responsibilities really plays upon their strengths.
Steve Oakland has been here 32 years has run most of our key businesses over the years and was our general manager and established a whole Canadian business years ago.
So he has got great capabilities and skills to run the coffee business.
Mark has run everything except for the consumer businesses.
So we have the opportunity to put Mark in that role to run consumer side of the business food side and then Vince as I mentioned has 38 years of experience and knows where all the bones are buried and so his combination along with Dave West will have real opportunities to drive that integration.
So it’s very successful.
And then again we are going to get a lot of talent I think from the big heart team in Dave West group so those are what drove it and that’s why we made the changes and that’s why I think we are very confident that we’ve got the right leadership team in place.
So Ken this is Mark just answering your question.
I’m actually really excited about the change because as Richard said I haven’t run these businesses there is a lot of brands in there nascent name sake business of course but obviously peanut butter being critical and so its exciting and having the opportunity to allow the natural foods piece to run autonomously but yet fit in the same organizational structure allows for us to make sure that we're meeting the needs of both of those customers.
So yes I’m very excited.
Do I miss Paul on a personal level? Sure but I think that the changes that were announced were quite logical.
Yes and Ken Steven Oakland.
Mark touched on one of the things that maybe we didn’t discuss enough in some of the public data we also - we’ve put some different segments together putting natural foods in the consumer group.
The consumer doesn’t know where natural begins and where natural ends.
And so that allows us to really reach that constituent better.
And within coffee as well the consumer’s coffee experience at home and away from home and the innovation and the research and the new products that we are doing in the coffee business really need to apply both away from home and at home.
So we think those are subtleties that maybe weren’t seen in the release that are going to drive results on across all those different businesses.
And regardless of many of you have been here regardless of which business your names on top of we’re a pretty close team and we work together very closely and have been together for so long.
The teams know each other well and it should be seamless.
Thank you very much.
We’ll go next Farha Aslam from Stephens.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Farha.
My question's on coffee.
In 2011 2012 you earned around $540 million in Coffee and then your profitability surged almost $100 million into 2014 with green coffee and K-Cups.
Now it seems like you are back in that 540-ish area.
Do you think the long-term level is back at sort of that 640 is or is it here kind of closer to current levels and this is the new base that we should work off of given greater competition in the coffee category? Hey Farha this is Mark Smucker.
Great question obliviously that’s the one that we have been discussing here internally.
And so the short answer is yes we do think as the business growth we can’t get back to the levels that we have previously seen.
I would remind you that we did have some very significant supply chain restructuring that help deliver some of that growth clearly the results this year are largely volume driven.
So I think over the next two to three years we should start to see a lot of that those dollars come back.
We actually are very confident in these last several months that we are making the right decisions on this business to return much of that profitability over the next couple of three years.
And so we think that as we sort of transition organizationally we’ll be leaving the business in good hands with Steve but in a direction that should help to deliver those results.
I guess if I could just take one minute and just talk about some of the – Vince touched on it in the first question why we’re optimistic.
And I put in three buckets consumer brands and consumption trends.
On the consumer we are seeing consumers come back into the category slower than we thought slowly increasing the purchase frequency.
We confirmed that there has been no consumer demographic shift.
Now on the brand we still outpaced our competition on the Folgers brand and we know that Dunkin brand has very strong coffee equity versus some of the other café offerings out there.
And then finally just on the consumption trends we also know that over 80% of cups consumed at home are still traditional roast and ground.
And so the fact all of those dynamics and the fact that we’re still participating in every segment we feel confident that we can gain growth.
That's helpful.
And then just turning in to your consumer business.
Should we be concerned about the weather issues we've seen out West and how that relates to your nut food spreads and your natural drinks business? Farha this is Vince.
No I mean obviously we’re watching all of those impacts but I would say as we look into our fiscal 2016 we see a tailwind in our overall comp structure.
Coffee is obviously to be determined although we believe it too will be favorable.
But if you look across our entire portfolio of raw materials we believe that our raw material costs will be a tailwind as we go into next year.
Some of that of course or most of it will be passed on in pricing as we spoke to earlier so it could affect our bottom line but we believe we are in overall pretty good position.
Great thank you.
We’ll take our next question from David Driscoll from Citi.
Great.
Thank you and good morning.
Hi Dave.
Good morning Dave.
One little quick detail here.
Do you guys exclude the deal-related costs from your outlook? So in this reduction the 3% reduction from the 555 midpoint is that reduction just all coffee or there is some deal related stuff in that fourth quarter reduction? David this is Mark Belgya.
There is no deal cost in the fourth quarter guidance reduction.
It’s all based in the full-year and it’s the $4.5 million roughly that we incurred this quarter just to be clear on kind of how this will flow through going forward.
Wheat cost we treat as normal gap charges but now that the deal has been signed as similar as we’ve done in prior deals as you’ll see on our P&amp;L the merger integration lines.
And we spoke to these costs when we announced the deal and $225 million so those will flow through over the course of next three years those would be excluded from our non-GAAP earnings.
So there is no additional deal cost expected in Q4.
Okay Mark just to follow-up on coffee.
So what I'd love to hear is just why did this situation just reach a real tipping point in the second fiscal quarter? The canister size issue has been there for a while but it seems like this price increase that you guys tried to put into effect just really exacerbated I guess this can size issue in our on shelf comparison to your major competitor.
And I guess the whole point of this question is to look forward into second quarter of 2016 when we are lapping the 18% volume decline.
Is it reasonable to think that the volumes come back if in fact you put the product on a historic basis back in line with the price gaps that it used to be at? David its Mark here.
So I think it is reasonable to expect that we will get some of the volume back given the downsize it probably will not all come back but there will be from a unit perspective we do respect unit growth.
And then the first part of your question just around the second quarter I think we said last quarter we were surprised by the elasticity.
Yes the elasticity we’ve seen mirrors the elasticity when we had even higher [revenue] cost a few years ago.
And so having a promoted on shelf price that was significantly higher than our competition was clearly a reason for that but again the speed that which we went up basically overnight from 699 to sort of an 899 level we saw the consumer react to that.
So when you look back over these past four five six months you’ll see that the winner was store brand and to a lesser degree we’ve experienced some large growth on our opening price point offerings.
And so the dynamics did surprises a little bit so going back to my previous answer about why we are optimistic I think that we have a lot of the right things in place the ability to sharpen our price points in the next fiscal year to should help to bring a lot of that growth back.
Did you lose shelf space? No in fact I mean I think we talked this last quarter we actually have seen in a few select retailers not sizable one that perhaps over skewed on the single-serve section and you are actually now returning some of the shelf space to us but to answer your question in the last six months we have not lost.\ Okay.
Thank you so much.
I’ll pass it along.
We’ll go next to Alexia Howard from Bernstein.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Can I ask about the profitability and pricing on the K-Cup side there has been a lot of discussion about how pricing on K-Cups has come down even as the import costs on coffee has gone up and I know that’s to do with packaging and so on but the commentary always used to be the profits on K-Cups were broadly inline with the margins I guess on your coffee business overall.
Is that still true or has that come down quite a bit and then I have a follow-up.
Alexia its Mark again Mark Smucker.
So we did talk last time also about this margin compression and so we have seen our K-Cup below the segment average and so we did invest in the first couple of quarters of this year.
However we took the price increase in January and do expect that margins will improve at least in the near-term but we may see a little softness in volume.
Okay great and then secondly on the mainstream roast and ground coffee dynamic your main competitor seem to be talking about how they had over promoted in some of their own segments yesterday.
Are you seeing any pullback or improvement in the competitive dynamic though or is it just too early to tell? Thank you and I’ll pass it on.
Thanks Alexia the main stream not a lot of pullback and I would say there is some of that.
If you look at the share numbers or the consumption numbers again private label or store brand tended to win and even though our main competitor faired a little better than us their consumption trends were also down.
Despite their investment levels.
Right despite their investment levels.
Very helpful thank you very much I’ll pass it on.
Well take our next question from Akshay Jagdale from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Good morning.
Yes hello Akshay.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Again with the coffee questions.
So it would be helpful if you could talk about - maybe help us quantify roughly how much of this overall 9.5% 10% volume decline this fiscal year you think went to private label basically and then maybe just give us a order of magnitude on how much of the decline in volumes that you are expecting this year went to which pieces so that we can better understand the sustainability of this headwind.
So Akshay its Mark again we touched on this in the script and in prepared comments and essentially about half of the decline.
And this is back again to last quarter about half of the decline has do with this sort of the sticker shock the reduced purchase frequency consumers taking pause maybe using less coffee that was probably about half.
And then of the remainder the shift to single serve was basically where it has been so we didn’t see an acceleration of that shift.
In fact if you look at the share trends between the segment you will see that the growth in single service decelerating.
And there seems to be some sort of stabilization that might come out of this in the next couple of years.
That said so you have half in a nutshell have to purchasing less coffee just the frequency then the other half is a combination of a normal shift to single served.
And then the rest would be shifting to our competitors.
And in this case it will be private label and some premium.
Okay so in other words the shift to private label we’ve seen this in years past and from talking to some of your private label competitors.
It’s really a cost of price relationship there is a lot of blending and stuff that plays into that.
But that’s not sustainable right; I mean they don’t have a cost advantage longer-term relative to you.
So those share shifts have happened before and that should presumably come back to you eventually.
Right I mean that’s a good way to think about it.
Yes it is I would say that the trends are very typical from a store brand standpoint and those brands tend to run short in their coverage from what we understand.
Okay and then to talk to this frequency issue I mean I am not sure I really understand it well enough.
So what people went to stores less and purchase less coffee we are not seeing that in the cup consumption data per se.
Can you give us some sense of what happen there? And how do you think that’s going to play out.
How do you address that? Akshay I cant’ break it down between purchase frequency dosing the Brewer less.
We don’t have that granularity but when we’ve seen declines in the past it typically is partly driven by consumers making maybe 8 cups instead of 10 in the home maybe putting one less scoop in so there is - there typically could be less usage which in turn could drive not instead of an 85-day purchase cycle for example maybe they are buying their next round of coffee in 95 days.
I mean it’s hard to guess that level of granularity but that’s how we think about it.
And so the canister downsize and lower price point is going to address that issue correct? Yes we believe it will.
Okay great.
I’ll pass it on.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Chris Growe from Stifel.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Hi I just had two quick questions.
I guess a bit of a follow-up and both on coffee unfortunately.
So just a question for you on there was a comment in the release about reduced promotional efficiency and I know that the canister downsize and obviously incremental promotion but I just want to get a sense of across the different segments.
Is your promotional spending coming down with less efficiency or reducing promotional spending does that have a knock-on effect of prices.
I’m just curious how you are going address that? Well I think yes I mean it hasn’t do with responsible pricing.
We have pulled back a little bit on the frequency and as we get into the next fiscal year we do expect both our promotional activities as well as the efficiency to return to more normalized levels.
Okay and then just a question for you on Dunkin and that premium segment in general.
You obviously have a big competitor entering that category or at lost a big brand in the café.
I’m just curious how again that you’re positioning Dunkin in front of that again more promotional or what you are trying to do try and be more competitive in front of that launch? Well first of all it’s about supporting the brand we have to continue to support the brand.
We have a great relationship with Dunkin we enjoyed the halo effect of their advertising as well.
There will be a short-term impact which seen plenty of trial on the competitor but we think from a brand standpoint Dunkin has a very strong coffee equity and that should help carry its weight as we move into the next fiscal year.
And then we continue to focus of course on innovation and so there will be - every year we’ve got new products new flavors all of those things that help support the brand as well.
So we think we can weather it.
Okay.
Thank you for the time.
See you at Cagney.
Thanks Chris.
Thank you.
We will go next to Jonathan Feeney from Athlos Research.
Good morning.
Thanks very much.
Hey Jonathan.
Has there been any work on your demographics of maybe some of this slowdown any customer segments in particular within coffee? I always thought of Folgers as within roasting ground of the premium player in I’m not sure if it’s possible some migration to single-serve within Folgers has maybe changed that in many people more price sensitive but I’d love any insight you have as to is to middle income low income consumers who are a little bit more price sensitive it would be appreciated? Jonathon that is exactly the question we’ve been asking ourselves and we’ve done some work on that and my earlier comment was we haven’t fortunately seen a shift in the demographic base and that does refer to the difference social economic levels the concern might have been that we were learning loosing the most the least price sensitive consumers to other segments.
When we look at the ratios it looks like it’s pretty much the same consumer base that we’ve always had.
We do view Folgers within the mainstream segment as the premium the leader the price leader all of those things.
So we feel good about who our consumer is and then in addition to that we are doing a lot of very deep consumer segmentation work to make sure that our own views of who our consumer is have not changed or maybe they have.
So over the next several months we’ll also be updating those data points.
And just one other question Eric asked earlier in the call and I’m sorry if somebody else asked this but Eric asked earlier in the call about retailer inventories maybe having an impact on the fourth quarter.
I’m curious about your insights about consumer level inventories that’s been a big issue for Green Mountain and their change over but even in the roasting ground business you talked about less purchasing? Yes this is Richard just in general in terms of the economic impact with the economy we still look at the consumer based in three buckets the top thirds doing well the lower thirds still challenged in terms of consumer and the middle third actually starting to do a little bit better especially with gas prices coming down and I think we’ve seen a little bit of that for get to coffee for just a minute.
But just in general we see a little tick-up in our business in the months of December and January in terms of the consumers being willing to loosen up their pocket book a little bit and we think that has a lot to do with the gas prices coming down and just some optimisms.
So consumer confidence is up you’ve seen the numbers.
So we think that is going to bode well for our business overall next year and actually we’ve seen it a little bit this year but that’s from a macro sense how we view it.
I don’t know if any other guys want to.
I think that covers it.
Yes thanks but any insight on the consumer level inventory of coffee.
Just is it from a pantry perspective.
Yes pantry perceptive you said people are shopping less I mean you said maybe they are drinking a little bit less coffee I don’t know if you have any of really knowing you know you said making eight cups instead of 10 or something like that.
Do you have way of knowing what your sort of pantries look like for dedicated Folgers households right now? Yes sure there are some research that we do and it does look like consumers may have less coffee in total in their pantry but I cant quantify that.
Okay fair enough guys.
Thanks very much.
Take care.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining.
And we’ll go next to Chuck Cerankosky from Northcoast Research.
Good morning everyone I would like to ask more of a macro question with regard to demand for center store products you sell.
In looking at customer that is feeling a little bit better about things it looks like there has been more in the fresh food categories do you think that makes them more sensitive to price and promotion in the products you sell and perhaps maybe even skipping some of those items to make room for fresh products some of which have significant inflation attached to them.
Hi Chuck its Vince.
I’m not sure that maybe going on but let me just maybe frame in what we have seen on the last 12 weeks.
If you look at total retail sales dollars were up about 2.5 tonnage is down a little over one if you look at the categories that we participate in dollar sales are only up about 1.7 and tonnage is actually down a little more about 2.5.
But if you look at us as a manufacturer including coffee and including the down size on our peanut butter business our sales are down but that’s because we have more deflation but our tonnage is down less than either the overall grocery store or the categories we are participating in.
So we are going share and probably more comforting is that you compare to our number one competitor across all of that same landscape they are down 7%.
So I think it gets factor one Richard’s comment center of store is flat to down one kind of number and we're fairing pretty good relative to our competitive set.
And I would just add to that.
I think you are right Chuck primarily the store is growing and as peoples have a little more money in their pocket they are willing to spend a little more on fresh products in the perimeter of the store.
And that certainly has an impact on the center of the store but as we know the retailer still make majority of their money on the center of the store and we are doing with the exception of coffee which we are talked about we’re doing very well in the center of the store.
Chuck this is Mark Belgya.
I guess the only thing I would add from innovation standpoint thought process and how do you sort of take the popularity of the perimeter bring into the center.
So if you look at where our innovation clean label good and good for you type products snacking is a real focus and you’ve seen some and you will see more and we’ll chat about that next week at Cagney.
So we are trying to capitalize at least on the trends that we are seeing outside.
All right thank you very much.
We’ll take our next question from Jason English from Goldman Sachs.
Hey good morning folks thanks for squeezing me in.
Good morning.
Good morning Jason.
First a very quick housekeeping item I think there is some confusion related to at the last conference call you hosted regards to Big Heart.
And exactly what the incremental amortization step up is going to be.
A lot of us will anchor to the $125 million it sounds like that’s kind of all in.
Can you clarify what the incremental portion of that is? Jason this is Mark Belgya.
Now it is the $125 million in total its $225 million that includes the existing $100 million Smucker today.
Where there might be some confusion depending it upon what research you might have done is they obviously had some of their own amortization.
So we are just looking at it at all incremental so that would be $125 million.
And the $125 million includes which already embedded the amortization is already embedded in their DNA? Yes it does.
I mean obviously we have to revalue all the assets so you kind of you flush their number and add our $125 million in.
Got it that’s helpful.
Back to the business at hand lots of different sort of story lines about what’s happening in coffee.
We’re cutting some data this morning and looking at household penetration for the Folgers brand.
And we see household penetration having fallen in 2009 from 35% to 31.6% in 2014 about 10% drop.
We are sort of accelerating erosion on household penetration just this past year or down 6%.
This seems more concerning they are just less households buying the brand.
And maybe we reached a tipping point where there is sort of craft mentality fragmentation has accelerated.
And it begs a question of whether or not there is sort of true secular issues at full-year.
Can you comment on that why we shouldn’t be concerned about this data.
And maybe what you see in terms of your own penetration data? Hey Jason this is Mark Smucker.
You’re right some household penetration is down on the Folgers brand but that’s why we are participating in all these other segments.
So that the fragmentation model I think there’s some truth to that so on one hand we are in all other segments we are getting growth we’ve done real well on our Folgers K-Cups.
And then just as you think about some of the things that you can hear next week when Vince present the Cagney about some of the mainstream innovation that we’ve got coming on the stream in the fall in a small scale but more broadly after that we believe should still be able to show up our business in the mainstream if not the same as itself.
Okay thanks.
I look forward to seeing some of those initiatives.
Thanks Jason.
We will take our next question from Rob Dickerson from Consumer Edge Research.
Thank you very much.
I just had two questions.
I guess one more strategic around Big Heart Pet Brands and the other one just housekeeping.
I guess the first question is on the strategic side with Big Heart.
I’m just curious I’m not sure how much you could actually comment on this but any additional color would be great.
So I guess just considering Jim Kilts who obviously he had a quite successful career in the CPG side and he is Chairman of Big Heart Pet Brands and currently a partner at Centerview.
Is the expectation as you bring in David West you’ve also have the sort of the board advisors on the private equity side it’s someone like Jim Kilts would actually be in overall part of the strategy going forward? Tim and I know Jim very well and I’ve known him for years and I’ve a lot of respect for Jim and as we said we are great that Dave West is joining the team and our observers that are going to be part of this part of our board activity.
They are all - good backgrounds in CPG.
So hopefully we gain from their experience and we think that will be very helpful as we look at our business down the road.
So we are looking forward to that.
Great.
So on the advisor side then it’s not I mean it’s fair to assume obviously just considering the equity stake from the private equity side that the comments and any additional help that they can provide on the total business will be there it’s more comprehensive versus just Big Heart Pet Brands? Yes it’s more strategic.
You are correct.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then secondly just housekeeping I know in the past you’ve said that transactions you do you hope that the not only would they be EPS and free cash flow per share accretive but also accretive to return on capital.
I am assuming the expectation is Big Heart will be there as well? Yes Rob this is Mark.
Yes of course that is our expectation and with the new capital structure out there our weighted average cost capital changes net to our favor but yes this business would also deliver on that target.
Okay.
May I just add to that when we talked about the amortization and our cash flow per share we are going to start focusing more on that and showing more information about our cash flow per share going forward because our earnings per share really doesn’t tell the whole story of this company and how much cash we generate and we’ve got probably more cash flow per share versus earnings per share than most people in the CPG industry and so we need to get that message out.
Yes I guess to add to that kind of playing off the question we just asked for awhile ago the amortization and if you look at once the deal is closed if you take that $225 million of amortization and dollar rise that’s about a $1.25 a share so certainly we think of valuing our company that way.
So you need to take whatever guidance rage and put another bucket and quarter on it and that gives you maybe a little better value we though of.
Fair enough all right.
Thank you.
We will go next to John Baumgartner from Wells Fargo.
Thank you good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just wanted to ask a big picture about consumer foods for moment and at the pricing contribution is weak there presuming how commodities are tracking there may not be positive pricing for some time still.
So I guess what are your expectations for the competitive dynamics and pricing incentive going forward.
Do you see more or deeper discounting the manufacturer is use to hold the line here or maybe promote back a little bit less if consumers are feeling better just how do you kind of thinking about that? This is Vince.
I mentioned earlier a couple of things we took some price decreases this year on peanut butter and Crisco and we’ll have those going into next year as we look at our input cost across consumer foods and most of those are tend to be tailwinds and so from our top line perspective we will have a negative dollar impact on net sales.
In terms of our industry it’s fair to say that I think everyone is saying that our promotional dollars are not as effective as they have been historically and there is a lot of money into the trade right now.
We are very comfortable with our promotional strategy if you look across our brands most of our brands tend to do better everyday shelf price versus I’d say promotionally driven on the consumer side.
And so whenever we can our desire would be get the everyday shelf price right and then tactically promote from half of that and not necessarily a higher frequency or higher deal level.
And so I guess I’ll leave it there and… I am going to just add to that Vince our strategy is number one brands in the respective categories we participate in and by that we take the leading position in terms of going up or down in price.
And we recognized in the short-term such as example peanut butter we got upside down on that for a while but we were willing to hang in there and do what was right for the brand and do brand building or the right pricing and it took us probably 18 months to get our cost price relationship back but we were responsible and as the leaders in the category and overtime that has still proven as the best strategy.
We don’t think that strategy should change for the leaders in each of the categories certainly that we participate in and overtime that’s the right strategy.
We also believe that this is a great time to be in the consumer foods business believe it or not although we know it’s extremely competitive right now brands are still extremely important to consumers and if we treat them right they will do well in the long-term.
Hey John this is Mark Belgya.
I would add one other thing because I agree with everything we said and I think sometimes you through the pass through categorically across all our business and I think its important to think about everything we just said is how we are managing the price and you sort of think of peanut butter and cake mixes and things like that but when you think about innovation as well though you got to think - take Sahale for example.
So while we're continuing to do the right thing in pricing we added Sahale to bring us growth to our consumer food segment or we are introducing products under the Jif or Smucker’s brand that probably longer term once they are in the run model mode are going to be a positive mix.
So we’ll manage the price and we’ll grow that but we’ll add on with innovation and acquisition to build that overall consumer food segment growth algorithm in the long-term.
Okay.
Thanks very much for that.
And we’ll go next to Robert Moskow from Credit Suisse.
Hey one of the reasons I started covering your stock is that someone told me that it was under covered by the sell side I think you are… Rob you lost the laundry drawer in the end of that sorry.
Yes I think we’ll probably pass that as being an issue.
All right coffee question just asked different way.
You said that mainstream category volume down 5% half of it due to switching.
So I guess my concern is 70% of your sales are Folgers and coffee and you are in a mainstream category that’s probably going to decline another 2.5% in volume if that switching still occurs maybe 5% is the switching still occurs.
So I mean how can we feel comfortable that Folgers can get back to volume growth aside from just taking market share because it seems like you are facing an uphill battle and the other 30% of the business is having trouble generating enough profit growth to make up for what Folgers is giving up.
Hey Robert let me start.
And then I will turn it over to Mark but these are same issues in concerns we heard when the day that we acquired this business that we are facing this growing premium segment.
And how we are going to compete on our Folgers mainstream and we’ve demonstrated that we took a brand that was supposed to be $50 million to over $350 million.
We had this growing concern of single serve and how were we going to compete and we’re the first national brand to participate.
And so clearly this past year we’ve had an issue with our mainstream roast and ground but I think if you look at our history of our innovation our supply chain initiatives that we’ve done we’ve navigated our way through some pretty significant category and consumer trends and very significant changes in our cost of our green coffee.
Fairly as Richard and I said in our prepared remarks and as Mark has articulated we aren’t happy with where it is today.
But we still think the Folgers brand is great we still believe there are growth opportunities.
And there are other opportunities for us that we believe will come to fruition down the pike.
So I just would like to frame it in in that matter and trust us.
Okay and I will say one thing that I think you are at a more reasonable base of profits for coffee this time around for fiscal 2015.
So I guess that’s the good thing and for profit growth in fiscal 2016 you are saying you are going to grow above your normal organic growth rate.
Is it fair to say that organic growth rate is about 5%? I’d probably say a tad below that.
Tad below 5% We typically talk yes we talk about organic growth rate more like a 3% growth rate 3% to 4%.
Okay so organic 3% to 4% on the sales or profit line.
Sales would be more in that sort of 3% and then you pick up 1 or 2 points on profit.
Okay so coffee profit is expected to grow a little faster than that in fiscal 2016? That’s right.
Okay.
Thank you.
End of Q&amp;A There are no other questions in the queue at this time.
I will now turn the conference back to management to conclude.
Yes we’d like to thank everybody for being on today we are looking forward to seeing everybody at Cagney next week.
We’ve got some more talk about Big Heart Pet food next week.
And also talk about our strategy moving forward.
So thank you all for being on and we will see you next week.
Ladies and gentlemen if you wish to access the rebroadcast after this live call.
You may do so by dialing 1-888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 with a passcode of 1727919.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for participating.
And have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the J.
M.
Smucker Company’s Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that the conference is being recorded and all participants are in a listen-only mode.
At the request of the Company we will open the conference up for question and answers after the presentation.
Please limit yourself to two initial questions during the Q&amp;A session and re-queue if then you have any additional questions.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Aaron Broholm Director Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
Here with me on the call are Richard Smucker Chief Executive Officer; Vince Byrd Vice Chairman; Mark Belgya Chief Financial Officer; Barry Dunaway President International and Chief Administrative Officer; Steve Oakland President Coffee and Foodservice Mark Smucker President Consumer and Natural Foods; and Dave West President Pet Food and Snacks.
Our prepared comments this morning will be organized as follows: Richard will begin with an overview of our fiscal 2015 performance and initial thoughts as we head into fiscal 2015; Vince will then provide color on the results for our business segments; and Mark will close with additional comments on our fourth results and an overview of our 2015 outlook.
During this conference call we will make forward-looking statements that reflect the Company’s current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates and actual results may differ materially due to risks and uncertainties.
I encourage you to read the full disclosure statement in the press release concerning forward-looking statements.
Additionally please note the Company uses non-GAAP results for the purpose of evaluating performance internally as detailed in our press release located on our corporate website at jmsmucker.com.
Given the significant impact of the Big Heart Pet Brands acquisition on our fourth quarter and full year results a reconciliation of non-GAAP earnings per share excluding these impacts was provided in this morning’s press release.
A replay of this call will be available on our website.
If you have any follow-up questions after today’s call please contact me.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Aaron.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Since the last time we spoke with many of you we announced two exciting milestones that have strengthened our business and supported our objective of delivering the long-term growth.
First we closed the Big Heart Pet Brands acquisition on March 23rd ahead of our original schedule.
I’d like to once again welcome Dave West to Smucker’s as we look forward to his continuing leadership as President of the Pet Food business and as a member of our Board of Directors.
After the close our teams immediately hit the ground running with a focus on welcoming the Big Heart employees to our company gaining a deeper understanding of the business and beginning to execute on our integration plans.
The more we learn the more excited and confidence we have in the Pet Food business and its people and its fit with the Smucker Company.
Second during the fourth quarter we expanded our partnership with Dunkin' Brands and Keurig Green Mountain through agreements which provide us exclusive rights to distribute and market Dunkin' Donuts K-Cup in grocery mass and other retail channels where our K-Cup are currently sold.
Our initial shipments began May 1st and we’ve been extremely pleased with the customer and consumer response to-date.
We anticipate Dunkin' Donuts K-Cups will be a key driver of top and bottom line growth for our Coffee segment in fiscal 2016.
We will share more on both of these topics during our call today.
Let me now provide a brief overview of our fiscal 2015 results.
The challenges we have spoken to over the past few quarters in our coffee business resulted in total Company net sales and earnings per share performance following short of our original expectations for the year.
That said we still firmly believe coffee is a great category and expect to achieve mid single digit percentage segment profit growth in 2016.
We were pleased with the 2015 performance of our Consumer Food segment which achieved record profit performance of $433 million this past year.
Volume performance in the segment was led by Jif Crisco and Smucker’s Uncrustables brands with Uncrustables achieving its third consecutive year of double-digit volume growth in U.S Retail.
New product launches across our Consumer Foods portfolio also contributed to 2015 results.
In addition during the year we completed the acquisition of the Sahale snack brand providing a new snacking platform that we look to leverage throughout our businesses.
Our International Foodservice and Natural Foods segment was significantly impacted by foreign currencies along with the planned foodservice business rationalizations.
Despite these headwinds segment profit was comparable to the prior year.
Further we are encouraged by the third and fourth quarter trends with this segment and remain confident in the underlying businesses as we move ahead.
Looking at a few other accomplishments this past year.
Our innovation pipeline continued to generate results as sales from products launched in the past three years contributed approximately 7% to our 2015 net sales.
Products introductions this past fiscal year included Café Bustelo K-Cups Jif To Go Dippers and Pillsbury purely simple baking mixes just to name a few.
We continue to invest in our manufacturing footprint to support future innovation and growth.
Approximately $230 million in CapEx was spent in 2015 excluding the Pet Food business.
Key activities included the completion of our new peanut butter facility in Memphis Tennessee along with investments in our New Orleans coffee facilities.
While investing in the business we also remain committed to returning cash to shareholders.
This past year we increased our quarterly dividend rate by 10% representing our 13th consecutive year of dividend growth and our 56th consecutive year of dividend payments.
We entered fiscal 2016 as a larger stronger and more diversified company.
And we are excited about the opportunities that lie ahead.
While Mark will provide more details in our guidance for the year in a moment let me highlight a few focused areas for 2016.
These include first: Integrating the Pet Food business and beginning to capitalize on the synergies and growth opportunities presented by this transaction; second we’re focusing our bigger growth opportunities that we’ve spoken to previously particularly within coffee and the Jif Smucker’s and Uncrustable brands.
While we continue our innovation momentum across our key product lines including pet food we’re also strengthening our marketing efforts in support of these innovations along with the initial initiatives around our sponsorship of the 2016 Summer Olympic Games next year; and fourth we’re increasing our focus on our working capital efficiencies in order to meet our de-leveraging activities.
Lastly on November 20th of this year we will celebrate the 50th anniversary of Smucker’s being listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
In conjunction with this event we’ll be hosting an Investor Day at the exchange.
We’ll provide more details as the date approaches and we hope to see many of you there.
In closing 2015 was the year of significant change for our company culminating with the largest M&amp;A transaction in the company history.
We’d like to thank all of our employees for their hard work and dedication over this past year.
And once again I’d like to welcome all of the Big Heart team to the Smucker Company.
Looking ahead we remain confident in our long-term strategy the strength of our brands and our ability to deliver growth in 2016 and beyond.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Vince.
Thank you Richard and good morning everyone.
I will begin by previewing the key points for our business segments.
First fourth quarter results for the base Smucker business were in line with the guidance we provided in February.
Second we continue to be pleased with the overall performance of our Consumer Foods and International Foodservice and Natural Food segments.
As expected Consumer Foods fourth quarter results were softer than the prior year while International Foodservice and Natural Foods had a strong finish to 2015.
Third the competitive dynamics in the Coffee remained a headwind in the fourth quarter impacting volume and segment profit performance as anticipated.
However as we enter the new fiscal year we are executing our plans that will further strengthen our coffee business and remain confident in future growth.
Lastly our teams have been hard at work developing the organization structure and plans for a successful integration of the Pet Food business.
We remain excited about the potential of this business and are well-positioned to capitalize on growth and cost saving opportunities.
With that I’ll provide some additional color on our segments starting with U.S.
Retail Coffee.
Fourth quarter volume trends declined sequentially from the third quarter reflecting continuing competitive dynamics in the category and consumer response to higher price points.
Promoted prices in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year were significantly higher than in the prior year given the underlying green coffee costs.
However behind the higher net pricing and favorable mix net sales only declined marginally in the quarter compared to last year.
As we enter 2016 we expect the Coffee segment to deliver both net sales and segment profit growth for the year.
A few of the key factors supporting our confidence are as follows: First we expect to recognize lower green coffee costs as we proceed through the year which we have begun passing through to our customers and consumers in the form of lower promoted price points on the Folgers mainstream offerings.
Second we are on track to complete the conversion of our Folgers large can to a reduced canister later this summer.
These cost savings will also be passed along to our customers and consumers resulting in a further improvement in price points.
While we anticipate Folgers volume decreasing modestly as a result of the downsizing units sold are expected are expected to be up.
Third our Dunkin' Donuts K-Cup launch is off to a strong start.
Our teams have done a great job executing our plans and we have received strong support from our partners Keurig Green Mountain and Dunkin' Donuts.
Over time we project these offerings could double our current K-Cup business which approached $300 million in net sales this past year.
Fourth we had good momentum in our Café Bustelo brand driven by growth in the core mainstream canister as well as the K-Cups following the successful launch.
Lastly we remain committed to supporting the long-term health of our coffee brands.
To that end fiscal ‘16 plans include resetting our marketing investments in support of our base business and new products most notably our introduction of Folgers Perfect Measures in several lead markets.
Turning to our U.S.
Retail Consumer Foods business we are pleased with its performance achieving 10% segment profit growth for the fiscal year.
However as expected segment profit was below the prior year in the fourth quarter.
In fiscal 2015 both back-to-school and holiday periods were some of the most successful in the Company’s history.
Here are few highlights by category: The Jif brand volume grew 2% for the year.
With our cost position now improved we have better everyday price points and are seeing contributions from innovation such as Jif To Go Dippers.
Volume for the Smucker’s fruit spread was in line with the prior year.
Driven by our natural offerings we continue to gain those volume and dollar share in the latest 12 and 52-week periods.
Smucker’s Uncrustables frozen sandwiches achieved a 13th consecutive quarter of double-digit volume growth and ended the full year up 17%.
The Crisco brand had a second consecutive strong year aided by moderating cost -- commodity cost.
While competitive activity in the oils category has increased off late we are pleased with the Crisco’s overall performance for the year.
The baking category was challenged by shifts in consumer behavior and aggressive competitive pricing which has continued into fiscal 2016.
Accordingly our Pillsbury brand was an area of softness in the Consumer Foods portfolio for the year as it performed in line with the category.
Lastly during the fourth quarter we completed the integration of the Sahale Snacks acquisition.
We remain focused of pursuing distribution opportunities for Sahale Snacks brand and are pleased with the initial results as we exceeded our 2015 sales projections for this business and look forward to a strong growth in 2016.
For the overall Consumer Foods business we anticipate lower commodity costs in 2016.
We also look for innovation momentum to continue including product launches spanning all of our key brands.
We have marketing initiatives plan to support these new products and overall brand equity.
Lastly we are pleased with our Memphis peanut butter facility which completed on time and on budget providing additional capacity and flexibility to support future growth of the Jif brand.
The International Foodservice and Natural Food segment achieved 10% segment profit growth in the fourth quarter following a 13% increase in the third quarter.
Full year 2015 net sales and segment profit were in line with the prior year.
We are pleased with these results given the significant impacts of foreign currency and the plant rationalization within our Foodservice business.
As we enter fiscal 2016 the effects of foreign currency is expected to increase due to a weakened Canadian dollar versus the prior year.
We are estimating an incremental profit headwind of approximately $20 million or $0.11 a share with our Canadian business.
As our underlying performance in Canada remains strong we look to build on the volume market-share gains we achieved across nearly all of our categories this past year and pursue opportunities to offset the foreign currency challenge.
Within Foodservice we have strong momentum with our Smucker’s branded portion control offerings Folgers roast and ground coffee and Uncrustables frozen sandwiches.
As we look for these trends to continue specific to Uncrustables we realize the initial benefits from re-entering the USDA schools programs in the fourth quarter and anticipate regaining the exited business over the next two years.
Overall our Foodservice portfolio is well-positioned for profitable growth.
Lastly in Natural Foods the strong performance of our branded beverage portfolio continued in the fourth quarter.
Our truRoots brand more stability in quinoa cost has allowed us to improve our pricing position heading into fiscal 2016 and we expect trends in this business to improve significantly.
Finally within the Pet Food segment Smucker’s fourth quarter included approximately six weeks of operating results for Big Heart.
Looking at the full fiscal year on a standalone basis and before purchase accounting adjustments net sales fell slightly below our 2015 projection of $2.3 billion and adjusted EBITDA was approximately $420 to $430 million compared to our previous estimate of $450 million.
On the top-line the shortfall was driven by softness in mainstream Pet Food due to a continued deflationary pricing environment.
The lower than projected EBITDA primarily reflected marketing investments in the fourth quarter in support of brand building efforts for our mainstream pet food and pet snacks brands.
We also chose to invest in promotional support behind natural balance in advance of expanding the brand’s footprint in the pet specialty channel which is scheduled to occur in the first half of 2016.
This expansion fuels our optimism regarding the growth prospects for our pet food business.
While we expect mainstream pet food to remain challenged by the current competitive dynamics we anticipate strong growth for both our pet snacks and premium pet food brands.
In addition to planned distribution expansion in the pet specialty channel innovation is expected to be a key contributor.
Building on the successful launch of Milk-Bone Brushing Chews this fiscal year we are introducing Milk-Bone Good Morning a line of daily vitamin treats for dogs and Meow Mix Irresistible a line of cat treats.
We also look to leverage our recent launch of Wild Pursuit an on trend high protein line extension for the Natural Balance brand.
Further we see growth potential for the pet food business in Canada as the brands are under-indexed in this market compared to our U.S.
business.
As Richard indicated a significant focus in the near-term will be the seamless integration of the pet food business and beginning to achieve our synergy targets.
Our collective teams have been actively reviewing business processes and learning from each other in order to identify and implement best practices.
We’re working to validate our initial integration assumptions and we’ll finalize specific timing over the next couple of months.
In closing let me reinforce that we are excited about the initiatives we have in place to grow all of our businesses.
We have great brands and what we believe is one of the best teams in the industry to execute on our plans.
I will now turn the call over to Mark.
Thank you Vince and good morning everyone.
Let me start with a few additional comments on the fourth quarter; I will then discuss 2015 cash flow performance and conclude with our 2016 outlook.
Fourth quarter earnings were significantly impacted by several non-comparable items related to the Big Heart acquisition as noted in this morning’s press release resulting in a reported net loss for the quarter.
In the release we included a reconciliation of reported results to what our estimated non-GAAP earnings per share would have been excluding acquisition and financing activities.
This was done to provide a comparison of our annual performance to the updated annual guidance we provided in February which excluded any impact related to these items.
The reconciliations reflect fourth quarter EPS of $0.98 and full year non-GAAP EPS of $5.38 which was in line with expectations.
Cash provided by operations was $222 million for the fourth quarter bringing the full year total to $733 million.
Factoring in CapEx of $248 million free cash flow was $485 million for 2015.
We ended the year with $226 million in commercial paper borrowings and $5.9 billion in long-term debt with the combined debt of nearly $6.2 billion and pro forma EBITDA of approximately $1.5 billion for 2015.
We ended the fiscal year with a leverage ratio of just over 4 times.
Turning to our 2016 outlook we anticipate net sales to approximate $8 billion driven by the addition of the Pet Food business along with organic growth.
Profit contributions from the acquired Pet Food business initial synergy savings and base business growth particularly in the coffee segment are expected to result in non-GAAP operating income in the range of $1.2 billion to $1.25 billion.
Reflecting incremental interest expense and a higher weighted average share count we are guiding non-GAAP EPS to a range of $5.65 to $5.80 for the year.
It is important to note this range includes approximately $210 million or $1.15 per share of estimated non-cash amortization for 2016.
This compares to approximately a $100 million or $0.65 per share of amortization in our adjusted non-GAAP EPS for 2015 before the impacts of the acquisition.
As the Pet Food transaction significantly increased our intangible assets and annual amortization expense we are going to emphasize earnings per share excluding amortization as an additional metric.
We believe that supplemental information allows investors to better evaluate the Company’s performance compared to our peers and provide the proxy for cash earnings per share which is important given significant increase in the Company’s debt position and our stated deleveraging objective.
To that end our 2016 guidance range would be $6.80 $6.95 excluding amortization.
Assuming the midpoint of this range this would represent an approximate 15% increase over the comparable EPS measure for 2015.
Let me provide further color on the specific components of our 2016 guidance.
Included in our net sales outlook is approximately $2.4 billion of total Pet Food sales.
For the remainder of the business we anticipate organic sales growth of approximately 3% with Dunkin' Donuts K-Cup and other new products being key contributors.
We anticipate net commodity cost to be favorable primarily due to lower green coffee costs beginning in the second quarter of the fiscal year.
However the continued weakness in the Canadian dollar is expected to result in higher costs of goods sold for International business.
And overall we anticipate gross margin of approximately 37% in 2016.
We estimate that SG&amp;A will be approximately 19% of net sales.
In addition to expenses associated with the Pet Food business we anticipate increase is related to resetting our marketing and our incentive compensation budgets.
Regarding synergies we continue to project a total of approximately $200 million on a run rate basis by the end of fiscal 2018.
We’re focused on achieving these cost savings by leveraging our scale as an $8 billion company and recently engaged a well-regarded consulting firm with significant expertise in its area to help us maximize the results of these efforts.
While we remain confident in achieving our overall synergy target within our initial timeframe we are being thoughtful in the process to ensure a successful integration.
As a result we’ve included a synergy estimate of approximately $25 million in our operating income guidance for 2016.
Below operating income net interest expense of approximately $180 million is anticipated reflecting our current debt structure and expectations of interest rates and debt repayments.
Our guidance range assumes an effective tax rate in line with 34.1% rate for 2015.
And lastly a weighted average share count of a $119.7 million shares is used reflecting a 15% increase over fiscal 2015 due to shares issued in connection with the Pet Food acquisition.
We do not anticipate any repurchase of shares in 2016.
We expect much of the EPS growth over the prior year to be back-half loaded due to several factors.
These include the timing of the synergy recognition green coffee cost decreasing through the year the impact of unfavorable FX weighted towards the front half of the year and finally a strong first quarter but a softer second half in fiscal 2015.
Looking briefly at the segments much of the 2016 profit growth will come from the full year addition of the Pet Food business.
We anticipate the remaining segment profit growth to be driven almost entirely by an estimated 5% to 6% increase for the Coffee segment.
Consumer Foods segment profit will be impacted by overhead related to the New Memphis facility in 2016.
However future growth of our Jif business is expected to absorb these additional costs over time.
Segment profit for International Foodservice and Natural Foods segments will be impacted by foreign currency headwinds of approximately $20 million or $0.11 per share which is expected to mostly offset gains in the underlying businesses of this segment.
We project free cash flow will approximate $850 million for 2016 using the midpoint of our EPS guidance range.
In addition to previously mentioned amortization expense key drivers include depreciation and share-based compensation expense of approximately $250 million restructuring and merger and integration costs of approximately $110 million of which half are expected to have the cash impact capital expenditures of $200 million.
And lastly we’re exploring opportunities to improve our working capital efficiency as part of the previously noted consulting project.
We anticipate this may provide some upside to our free cash flow estimate for 2016.
As we’ve indicated previously we intend to apply a significant portion of our future free cash flow to meet our deleveraging objectives.
Given the recent changes in our company and a new management structure announced in late fiscal 2015 we’re currently evaluating the related impact on our reportable segments.
To the extent this evaluation results in any changes to our segments we intend to follow Form 8-K this summer announcing any such changes and recasting prior year results to reflect the new reporting structure.
Further regarding the leadership changes let me briefly summarize how we intend to handle the questions specific to business segments result on today’s call.
While the changes were affected in April the individuals who oversaw the segment for the majority of the past year will take the lead in addressing the questions.
Specifically Mark will cover Coffee; Vince for Consumer Foods for International Foodservice and Natural Foods; Dave of course will address questions related to Pet Food business.
And also as a reminder we will be participating in the Consumer Industry Investor Conference in Paris next Wednesday.
Who would like to listen to our presentation a live webcast will be available through our Investor Relations website.
With that we will open up the call to your questions.
Operator please queue up the first question.
The question-and-answer session will begin at this time.
[Operator Instructions].
Please standby for the first question.
And we’ll go to David Driscoll of Citi.
I wanted to start off with the Pet Food business; can you tell us what’s the expected EBIT margin for Big Heart in 2016? And then in addition can you talk about the plans for Natural Balance? We see the Natural Balance brand on the PetSmart website and I’m pretty interested in that would love to understand what kind of growth you expect in the brand and just simply kind of what’s the promotional programs that you have tied in with these events.
This is Mark Belgya and then I’ll let Dave to cover the business.
Specific to question we’re not going to provide that; we wouldn’t typically do that for any of our other businesses.
What I would say is that and I think we made this is back when we acquired the business that obviously it is good profit business.
At gross margin level we said we’re going to beat all in at 37% for the year and their business clearly will help support that growth from what we’ve had this past year.
With respect to the Natural Balance we completed the acquisition a little bit more than a year ago.
So we are in the process now of evaluating strategy for the business on a forward basis.
We want to make sure that consumers who shopped in at specials here Independence channel have the opportunity to buy the Natural Balance brand wherever they are shopping.
It’s not unusual for brands in that specialty and Independence pet start in one place and then move across the channel over time.
So our focus for Natural Balance and the strategy of building the brand is to get it across the channels where average consumers want to meet the brand.
So we’re pretty confident that expanding the distribution footprint at this point more broadly is the right thing to do both for the consumers and the brand franchise help.
We recognize the unique nature of programming in the channel.
And in the prepared comments Vince mentioned that in the fourth quarter we were spending some promotional dollars.
And what we’re really doing across the retail landscape and pet specialty and Independence making sure the brand has the right kind of awareness and same programming as we stand.
So we’re really comfortable about doing it.
You’ll see it in the first half of the year.
We value the relationships with all the retailers across pet specialty and Independence.
And I’m not going to get into specifics.
But you will see unique programming and unique assortment across the channel but the Natural Balance brand our goal is to have it available everywhere by the end of the year.
And if could ask one question on coffee which are -- just kind of big picture.
Coffee profits were down something like 14% in 2015.
But you guys are giving guidance of up mid single digits.
So like on its own mid single digits sounds good but when you look at the decline in 2015 it’s not so good.
What’s your opinion here of what’s happening within your coffee operations; why only a partial recovery here; are you satisfied with what’s happening in coffee? I’ll start and then I’ll turn it over to Mark to talk.
Mark and Steve can talk about next year.
Couple of things one is first of all we recognize in the first quarter we’re going to be challenge because we still have some high cost coffee and so our margins in the first quarter are not going to be where we like them to be.
So most of the gain is going to come in the last half of the year.
So if you are looking on a full year basis it’s probably almost the double-digit gain but not over because of the first quarter and probably in the second quarter you won’t see that this year.
But it will probably take us -- took us about 18 months to get where we are and probably take us 12 months to get back but it’s going to be in the last half of the year.
But it’s still a great business; it’s still great margins.
Our raw material costs are coming back in line.
Our pricing on the retail shelf is getting much better.
And so I think you’re going to definitely see that.
But you’re going to see the pricing earlier in this year.
But our margins will actually benefit us latter half of the year.
I would just point out too David that the prior year was clearly a record year a year that truly started all line being at all the tailwinds we needed.
Going into this year we are -- in the fourth quarter we saw how is the largest gap year-over-year in terms of commodity cost.
And so those will moderate as we go forward.
But as Richard pointed out the moderation is really more significant after the first quarter.
The other thing I think we look out there is some exciting innovation in this category for next year.
So we’ve returned to marketing in more historic levels and we’re investing in the lead markets for Perfect Measures.
We think that’s the first real innovation in roast and ground in a number of years.
And we want to make sure that we have enough spending to drive that.
And additionally you’re going to see some tailwind behind the Dunkin' K-Cup launch and that’s off to a fantastic start.
But again we’re going to make sure that’s funded as well.
So we’re going to make sure that marketing budgets behind both of those key initiatives show their success.
We’ll go next to Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
I guess one of the questions that seems to be kind of being pain to us is the synergy target you talked about at CAGNY for this coming year versus the $25 million that you listed today; is the difference A&amp;P spending in pet or is there something else explaining that difference? A couple of things.
First of all we remain comfortable with our $200 million target over three years.
Given what’s going on in our industry my couple of CPG companies we felt we needed to take pause.
And as Mark said in his formal remarks engage a well-regarded consulting firm in this phase to really challenge our cost structure across our new $8 billion company.
So that along with trying to ensure that we leverage the best practices of both companies as opposed to maybe just integrating into the existing Smucker model has forced us to take pause on some of our original assumptions as it relates to integration.
And so accordingly although we feel very comfortable at this point with the 200 million we felt that it was only prudent to reduce the year one guide to ensure we met our guidance down to the 25 million.
I would also say that as Mark said in his prepared remarks so we were also looking at a working capital objective too that we feel very comfortable with.
So the bottom line is it’s just a matter of timing at this point where we feel very comfortable over the long-term of achieving the $200 million.
And then I guess to maybe this is to Mark.
So I wasn’t really thinking about a $0.10 FX headwind from Canada.
And then maybe there is another -- the difference I guess maybe versus consensus so where you’re guiding to is also tied to the synergies.
Is that kind of the way to think about the differences versus maybe consensus? Yes let me kind of walk through because you hit it.
If you do look at kind of what consensus out there I think there is four pieces of the puzzle of which three probably offset.
In our scripted comments we’ve talked about what our annual estimate for amortization and interest are versus where we were couple of months ago.
So that actually is positive; so that’s ballpark is about $0.14 or $0.15.
If you take the synergy impact that’s about $0.14 or $0.15 going the other way.
So that’s kind of a wash.
So what remains that other fourth item is really the Canadian FX.
So it is $0.11 $20 million; the anticipation is we’ll be able to offset some of that.
There is initiatives being put in place but obviously this has to pan out over time and then there’ll be back half.
So I think the way you describe it is exactly that how we would suggest where it might be versus where is sort of the mid to upper part of our range would be for our guidance.
We’ll go next to Chris Growe with Stifel.
I just wanted to ask if I could on the Consumer Foods business.
In some of the areas where you’ve taken some more aggressive pricing actions in relation to the input cost being down oils and peanut butter in particular we’ve seen relatively soft volumes.
So I was surprised by that here in the fourth quarter.
So I want to get a sense of your reaction to that or how you -- is that promotional inefficiency that’s occurring there? And then your expectations for fiscal ‘16 in that division should we see that volume softness persist? Let me just say that overall we’re very happy with our results of our peanut butter business in 2015.
First of all we grew core volume and innovation contributed to some of that growth and we brought up a brand new facility in our fourth quarter which was on time and on budget.
So I would say first from a macro perspective we’re very happy with the peanut butter business.
You may recall we were upside down on some peanut costs from two years ago; those costs are back in line and we feel comfortable where our pricing is and our margins going forward.
The issue is what we’re talking about Mark in his formal remarks about our consumer business being down is a direct result of the incremental overhead cost that we will be experiencing from the Memphis facility.
But there was some softness in the fourth quarter but we really don’t anticipate that trend continuing into New Year and we plan to grow the peanut butter business.
Just to build on what Vince said.
We do think we have some really nice plans in place for the fall period coming up and we do expect particularly in the peanut butter area as well as in the food spread with new products and focus on the core we should be able to continue to grow those businesses.
Just a quick question if I could on Dunkin' K-Cup.
So do those ship then in -- with that being in the first quarter of fiscal ‘16 was there any benefit in the fourth quarter is my question.
And then Vince you made a comment about the size of the business potentially perhaps significantly increasing your overall K-Cup exposure.
It indicated a pretty significant potential increase I guess which you’re saying there.
I was curious kind of a backdrop for that assumption.
Could it be 300 plus million dollar in sales would indicate a pretty substantial market share of the K-Cup segment just curious on your comments there.
Yes we are very excited.
They started shipping May 1.
And when we say May 1 is like 12:01 am.
Our customer base was really excited about it.
And in fact within a week it was on display and on feature ad across its core markets.
So the Dunkin' brand is so strong and the idea that to have that at home the K-Cup format has been well received so far by the trading and by the customer.
So we think it does have the potential to reach somewhere close to the numbers you’ve quoted.
And we think -- we’re not sure if we’ll get all of that this year or it will take an extra year.
Just there is timing of major retailer resets and those kinds of things.
But I can tell you that all the retailers are finding space for it.
And it’s on the floor exciting thing and as we look forward is the opportunity to merchandise the entire Dunkin' line.
The margins when you have three parties in an agreement aren’t the same as they are when there is just two.
So the bag business will benefit from this all those things will benefit from it.
So we’re excited about this being a driver for the whole Dunkin' business across Smucker.
We’ll go to Ken Goldman with J.P.
Morgan.
A question I’m a bit confused and if you addressed this forgive me.
But I’m curious why your coffee costs aren’t coming down a little more quickly this year.
You no longer break this out but you used to talk about the average lag between stock beans and when they hit your numbers being around four months.
Coffee has been very cheap since pretty early this year; it’s been over four months.
So I’m just asking I guess is it safe to say you locked in beans at unfavorable prices for a bit longer than usual or maybe I’m missing something but why are you not getting that benefit right away this year? As you know we haven’t really talked about our position; our coverage philosophy hasn’t really changed significantly.
But I am kind of go back to a comment we made earlier just as in the fourth quarter we were expanding some of our higher costs and we’re not seeing -- we’re not getting down to market rates until probably sometime in the second quarter.
We have been able to lean in for the first quarter.
And I think if you look across the promoted pricing across trade literally today you’ll see promoted pricing well below what we have in the fourth quarter and the trade merchandising around that.
So I think you’ll see sequentially better pricing in the first quarter and then I think it will get between the downsize container which gives us even more room you’ll see even better pricing as we go into that in the rest of the year.
And then one follow-up.
In recent months we’ve seen some pretty large food manufacturers Kraft and Nestle talk about improving the product quality of some core items.
Kraft is taking out artificial colors from mac and cheese.
Nestle has really talked about removing salt and I think sugar from a lot of items across the board.
Is doing something similar at all a priority for Smucker? Because one of the push-backs I hear is that some items in the product portfolio jams; peanut butter there’s a lot of sugar in those items.
And the bears on the stocks will tell me look these are just not necessarily in line with where better for you trends are going.
So I kind of agree with that statement a little bit and I’m curious what you guys are doing to take these core items? Not line extensions but the basic big SKUs that you sell and maybe say you know what can we improve the product quality a little bit and take some of the not so good items for you out of it? Well we’ve been doing that for the last three to four years.
So for example just first on trans fat we’ve basically taken trans fats from all of our products in fact even Crisco.
Well four years ago we took trans fats out of Crisco; it used to be the poster child for trans fats and now it’s without trans fats.
Also in every single line product that we’re in we’ve added new products for example in the baking isle we have Purely Simple this year which is very simple ingredients in our baking mixes in the Pillsbury baking mixes.
So we’ve done in every category.
If you think about the categories that we’re in peanut butter there has always been -- there is not a lot of sugar in peanut butter to be perfectly honest; it’s very high protein there is a little bit but there is not a lot never has been.
Food spreads we just came out with a line of food spreads sweetened with honey which was just came out with couple of -- few months ago.
And that’s actually being very well received by the consumer.
So there actually you see a lot of our innovations being driven by better ingredients simpler ingredients and those have contributed in total about 7% of our sales this past year.
And we’re trying to do that in our mainline too.
But most of our mainline whether it’s coffee or peanut butter are pretty good products for you.
In fact coffee has got a new halo and more coffee you drink it’s better for your health and we like to see those reports that come out those in medical studies.
So we feel really good about our portfolio and those products that we can improve in terms of simplifying ingredients we are but we’re pushing in those areas.
Ken I would just add of course we have a whole Natural Foods division and plays in the space every day that has been growing fairly significantly over the past few years.
And of course their focus is on both natural and organic offering.
So I think we feel pretty good about our positioning.
We’ll go to Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
I wanted to start with the top-line.
3% organic would be a pretty impressive achievement in context of the last couple of years.
Can you talk about maybe the volume and price contributions that you’re expecting from that? Jason this is Mark Belgya couple of thoughts.
On volume of course we always had this kind of ongoing discussion because of the breadth of our portfolios and by the way you’re talking flour or K-Cup.
But I think a couple of comments around volume.
Volume will be impacted a little bit by the previously mentioned downsizing of the Folgers canisters.
So while we expect some volume as measured in tonnage decline there obviously growth in the K-Cup goes on a favorable mix forth and also we would expect units of Folgers in a downsized canister to grow.
So volume did kind of wash there if you will.
Clearly the top-line growth is coming from mix and flash new products.
So Dunkin' K-Cup and just the innovation we talked about in each of the business areas will contribute significantly to that 3% growth rate.
So we feel pretty good about it because of the product particularly a fairly large portion are either in market like K-Cup Dunkin' today or will be soon to get the full year benefit of those.
In context of easing input costs across your portfolio do you expect to be able to hold prices or do you plan to give it back as you typically have in the past.
Jason we’ve done every year I mean we will evaluate the situation on a case by case basis but typically we are transparent with our pricing and we’ll pass those cost savings on or whatever we need to do to meet the competitive landscape.
All right so probably a little bit of price give back in one form or another a little bit of volume and a fair amount of mix contribution.
Is that the right way to think about it? Yes.
We’ll go to Alexia Howard with Bernstein.
Can I ask about competitive dynamics in the Pet Food business? I think you mentioned in the prepared remarks that that’s giving you some pressure.
It looks as though the sales year-on-year were done quite a bit across the Pet Food business.
I’m just curious about what you’re seeing there when you expect the sales guys to stabilize and whether you’re worried that as the category premiumizes that some of those mainstream brands will get left behind.
We did have in the mainstream part of the portfolio particularly in dry food there was some deflationary pressure.
We’ve seen corn and the soy complex come down and that’s been pass-through.
In the third quarter when you look at third-quarter results we had some sharper price points in market both on an EDLP basis and on a promoted basis.
In the fourth quarter we had a little bit less with respect to promotional dollars and we floated some price points up.
And that’s where you see some of the decline in the fourth quarter.
When you look at a 52-week share particularly in dry dog for example our business was roughly flat in share for the 52-week period.
So we had some softness in the early part of the year; we changed our promotional strategy in the third quarter and then kind of backed off of that in the fourth quarter.
So across the year we held our share.
And as you look forward into the next year we certainly believe that we’re going to have pricing strategy that holds our share for the year.
So it’s deflationary.
In terms of relevance of those brands those are -- pet food in the mass market is a huge category.
It’s a traffic drawing category for retailers.
It gets a lot of focus from them with respect to space.
So it’s going to be relevant.
Obviously we want to have brands that are affordable and accessible to all.
So whether it’s Gravy Train and Kibbles ‘n Bits in dry dog food and some mass outlets all the way up to Natural Balance in the new line extension we have which is Wild Pursuit which has high protein sources you can buy pet food anywhere from $9.99 to $59.99.
And it’s a consumer choice model.
And we play across the entire portfolio.
So I think we remain relevant and the categories are really relevant to all consumers.
And I guess just as a quick follow-up.
So in terms of when those negative prices stop playing out year-on-year does that happen in the next couple of quarters and should we expect to see sales fairly flat year-on-year from there on out or maybe even growing a little bit? My preference is to not talk about forward pricing policy and the way we’re thinking about it from competitive dynamics I don’t think that’s appropriate.
We’re going to do what we need to do to protect our share.
What I think -- while the mainstream food business is certainly under some deflationary pressure we’re really very pleased about the premium pet specialty business as we continue to expand our portfolio across the channel and our dog snack and cat snacks business and we’ve got great new line extensions.
We expect very strong growth in both the pet snacks business as well as in the pet specialty businesses.
So across the portfolio we feel good about the growth rates and the growth targets that we’ve talked about.
We’ll go to Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
You might have covered this briefly already but lowering your synergy targets this early into the acquisition I know you haven’t lowered the long-term target but can you just give me a little more detail as to what specifically is causing the synergies to be lower in the first year and explain a little bit more like why we should feel confident that the $200 million is still going to be intact and maybe not get pushed out? We did address that.
I think it was the first or second question; I guess I would just reiterate a couple of points.
First of all we feel comfortable with the $200 million.
The primary reason for the postponement is is that we took pause and hired a well-regarded consultant given what’s going on in our industry and felt that we needed to look at our cost structure across the $8 billion new company enterprise.
And that along with some of the learnings that we’ve had to-date coupled with the fact that we wanted to ensure that we were acknowledging best practices by both companies rather than just integrated into the Smucker Company as we have done business all of those things just postponed some of the integration activities.
And so at this point we chose to be maybe a little more conservative or significantly more conservative in our year-one target.
But there has been no learning at this point that would suggest that we can’t still achieve the $200 million.
I’ll just add to that and just our confidence in the 200.
We have strong confidence in the 200 and the fact that we’ve done a number of integrations of acquisitions before.
And the most important thing is that you do that integration right in the first 12 months.
And if -- our cautious nature as you know us if we think that we can do an integration better by pushing some of those synergies back by -- we’re talking about $25 million from one year to the next but it makes a better integration that you have a better team in place and that you have better programs in place we’re going to do that.
So it maybe our conservative Midwest nature but we think it was the right thing to do but we’re very confident that we’re going to hit the number.
Can I ask has this consulting firm given you some advice about changes in how you integrate the business already that makes you think that maybe we should be slowing things down a bit? We’re going to learn a lot from but we’re just in the middle of the work with them.
And in fact we actually brought them in a little late because we said hey we’re not just looking at Big Heart here we’re looking at the entire Smucker Company.
So we’re looking across $8 billion not just across $2.5 billion.
So that I guess backed us up maybe a month or two but it’s all for the right reasons.
It’s going to get us better more confident numbers and get us probably a better integration.
And we do when we look at integration if there are reasons to change how we’re doing it for all the right reasons we do that.
So we’ve learned a little bit there.
And they are actually looking at best practices across all the consumer goods companies and they are going to bring -- they are bringing some good learnings to us.
We’ll go to John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
I just wanted to ask about coffee in terms of the Dunkin' bags.
The volume decline there was pretty significant and I guess it coincides with the McCafé rollout and maybe similar to what we saw a few years ago when Gevalia came into the market.
So did the performance there or maybe inability to defend that how can that be improved at all? And is there a reason to think that maybe the bag performance for Dunkin' is down in 2016? So a couple of things; and this is a theme across all of our legacy Smucker businesses.
And that is as commodities moderated across many of our categories we chose to pass along some of that moderation in the front half as in promotional spending.
And you saw a number of pricing list pricing adjustments in the back half.
In the case of Dunkin' specifically that would have been the case.
So we were very competitive in the front half but as we were continuing to realize elevated green coffee costs we chose to pull back on promotional frequency in the back half knowing full well that the McCafé was coming in.
If you look at our share trends and you go back on an annualized basis if you look at the 52-week trends you will see that in our Dunkin' business we are still holding volume share ahead of two years ago and expected a bit of a decline here in this last quarter.
So I think -- and even though you have Gevalia coming in and they have gained call it a 5 or 6 share we have held onto our position.
And so as Steve said as well going forward very early reads on K-Cups it looks like that K-Cup business is also helping to pull along the bag business as well.
But we feel very good about the Dunkin' brand and our future prospects.
The only thing I would add John -- this is Steve is that with McCafé’s launch the other probably the largest premium coffee company was very aggressive.
And so that there was a lot of noise in that segment in the last four to six months and so I think as that settles out the merchandising gets back to normal and the new leverage we have with K-Cups I think we’ll see a little better trends.
But the pricing from the biggest guy in that segment has been lower than what we’ve seen in the past.
And I think that was to compete with the new entry of McCafé.
Okay.
So is it fair to think that Dunkin' bag the sales there will be up in fiscal ‘16? Yes we expect growth.
We’ll go Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
So I just want to ask a quick question on coffee.
Can you just give us an overall view of share trends and roast and grounds the various segments in fiscal 2015 and what you expect in ‘16? Obviously on the K-Cup side we’ve seen stabilization in your sales but you’ve lost a couple of points a share over the last couple of years.
And the part of the business that I really would like you to focus on from a share perspective is roast and ground; it’s been really unusual movement there.
So can you just talk a little bit about where you ended up in fiscal 2015 in terms of share trends and what your expectations are in ‘16? Because the business is setting up to what I think have a pretty good year.
So it goes back to the comment on the last question.
If you look at whether it’s mainstream roast and ground or the bagged premium roast and ground in both cases we tend to look at volume share in those and that’s IRI.
There was a question earlier that we pointed to the fact that in our record year of fiscal ‘14 we had achieved share that was about 47% 48% in the mainstream segment only.
As we did see erosion in this past year I can assure you that our shares basically came back to the levels they were in the prior year which would have been our fiscal ‘13.
So the decline you saw in the business as we’ve talked over the last couple of quarters the shift to K-Cup is sort of as expected in sort of low single-digit numbers.
But the declines particularly in our roast and ground business in the back half of the year were a little bit more due to the absolute price point and some switching to other roast and ground players including private label.
So bottom-line in both of those roast and ground segments I think having our share remained at or above two years ago we feel that we’re in pretty good shape going forward.
And if we talk -- if we jump to K-Cups clearly with all of the noise in K-Cups our business grew in total dollars but we didn’t grow nearly as fast as the category.
And so we lost share in K-Cups on a growing business.
Having said that we think the numbers we talked about earlier we have a significant opportunity with Dunkin' K-Cups.
So we would expect the faster share growth of our business this year will be in K-Cups.
So just going back to Mark; so do you expect roast and ground to gain share? I mean you’ve got this new packaging which is in line with your competitor lower price points.
Is it fair to expect that you should gain share in roast and ground and in the bag segment at least maintain your share? And obviously in K-Cups it seems like you should be gaining share.
Is that the right way to think about it? Yes it is Akshay.
Yes we feel good about the merchandising price points sizes.
Dollar share will be better than volume share because of the downsize but we expect units to be up significantly this year.
Okay.
And just on the pet food side you mentioned two factors that drove the sales and EBIT for the fiscal year to be a little bit lower than you had expected.
Can you talk specifically about the two factors? You mentioned one was marketing which is good for future growth and the other was promotional dollars.
I’m wondering if the promotional -- additional promotional expense is more defensive or offensive and why -- can you talk a little bit about why the plan changed on the marketing side to spend more? Is it just timing or something more strategic? Let me just say with respect to pricing we have in all of our businesses across the pet portfolio we have the elasticity models and we monitor our price competitive price gaps and there are certain trigger points that we reach in certain channels.
And so we spend appropriately we think to defend our share in particularly in the dry dog food business.
So there’s going to be periods of time given that it’s an EDLP category pricing tends to move around a lot more at shelf in that business than you might see in others because it’s much more of an EDLP business.
So it doesn’t typically move the same way as you’d expect a high low category to move.
So we think we can defend our share and feel good about the brands.
We were encouraged as we started to think about putting the two businesses together by a couple of programs that we had in market and in place.
And with early conversations as we brought the two companies together we decided to accelerate some marketing spending particularly behind new products in pet snacks and also as we ready our portfolio in pet specialty to expand our Natural Balance distribution footprint.
So we think we’ve made some very smart investments as we closed the year which will help us grow those businesses into F16.
We’ll go to Farha Aslam with Stephens.
When you look at innovation and marketing in your business this year outside of the Dunkin' K-Cups could you share with us your new product activity scale this year versus last year and any particular area that you’re focusing on that we should think about in terms of baking consumer et cetera? And then also the same how much would you say your marketing budget is up and where would that be concentrated? I will just answer the last part of that question.
Overall and if you look at just I will call it just base Smucker it is up low double digits for the Company.
And as we talked about throughout the past fiscal year we were trimming marketing budgets across the business.
So I think it’s fair to say that all the brands have reestablished their marketing spend to more historical level.
So I don’t think it’s concentrated in one area.
Our innovation pipeline is pretty full right now.
Last year we introduced over 100 new products.
We have that same type of goal this coming year.
And all of those I think I spoke to earlier -- a lot of them are around healthy alternatives for the consumer right along with consumer trends.
So we have -- and that’s also in pet food too.
So we’re continuing that.
As I said 7% of our sales last year are from new products we didn’t have three years ago.
So we expect that to continue.
We’re also entering snacking in a big way not just the Sahale acquisition certainly helped but we have a number of snacking items not only in the pet food side but snacking in peanut butter; our Jif To Go.
We now have a new line of Jif bars which are actually outstanding.
So we’re pushing on all those areas.
And so innovation is really key to us and healthy innovation is really key to us.
Just to build on Richard it is about clean labels launching products with cleaner labels it is about snacking and I would submit that in every given year it’s not about the number of new products that we want to launch it’s about making sure that we launch the right new products.
So some years we may choose to focus on fewer bigger ideas.
Perfect Measures we believe might be one of those and so we’re focused there.
Another years there’s more what we would call maybe horizon one innovations but again it’s all about priorities.
There’s been a couple of articles recently as we’ve all seen about processed foods and the challenge processed foods are under but our portfolio we feel very good about.
We’re in categories coffee obviously has a good halo about it and is a staple that everyone uses every day; peanut butter is one of the lowest cost proteins you can possibly have.
And so we think we’re in a lot of good categories that go against the grain which in this day and age is where we want to be.
Maybe I’ll close on that.
The lead markets for Perfect Measures will ship late summer.
And that’s a concept that we’ve spent a lot of time and a lot of money on research and development.
And we want to make sure that we get the right read on that.
So the marketing spend even though it’s a lead market launch will be at national weight levels.
So that’s one of the reasons we talked earlier about the marketing spend returning to coffee and where some of that spend is going but we want to get the right read on that and then determine how fast to pour investment in it.
So we feel good about that.
It will ship it this summer.
And if we get the results that we’re hoping on we will roll as quickly as we can.
And just as a follow-up incentive compensation what’s the swing year-over-year that we should think about in Smucker’s? It’s about $0.06 to $0.07 -- well actually it’s about $0.05 to $0.06.
We’ll take our last question from Rob Dickerson from Consumer Edge Research.
I just had a question on free cash flow I didn’t really hear much focus on it on today’s call but I think it is important.
The key question I have is that I think originally you said when you announced the Big Heart Pet transaction that the cash from ops on average should be about $1.1 billion over the next three years so ‘16 to ‘18 but then at the same time it should be increasing on average each year.
So then when I look at your free cash flow projection for ‘16 which is $850 million or approximately a 75% increase from this year’s level and you’re telling me that cash from ops should be about $1.05 billion leaving CapEx at $200 million I step back and say okay well is there upside to the $1.1 billion guidance on average that you gave originally from cash from ops or should we be thinking that CapEx in ‘16 is just let’s say a bit low relative to what we should be thinking about for ‘17 and ‘18? So overall I’m just looking for color for your free cash flow guidance over the next three years.
A couple of things here one is -- and I’ll point this out in terms of this year’s free cash flow I think it is important to realize some of those debt costs and those deal costs are flowing through there.
So that would be a little artificially low.
But specific to your question I think there is upside opportunity for cash from operations.
I will push it out a little bit.
I will say maybe more a three to five-year window as Vince suggested as part of this consulting project we are looking at working capital.
So we do think that the expectation is that we generate some cash from operations from that perspective.
As it relates to CapEx if you just do the numbers this year is about 2.5% which is clearly below our longer term objective of 3% to 3.5%.
And I don’t think I’d read anything else more into that other than we have concluded a number of significant projects.
Over the last five to six years we’ve spent just on our plants about $800 million.
A lot of those we talked about over the last several quarters on conference calls.
So we’ve reached to a point where those are complete.
We’re sort of in run model with either brand-new plants or virtually new plants.
So we’re still sticking to our 3% to 3.5% of sales over time so that will increase from this year but nothing dramatic.
So our hope is that the upside comes from the working capital management project.
And we will see a bump over the next three to five years.
Then just quickly on the synergy side the $25 million projected for this year obviously is a bit short to what you said earlier and I know there’s a question that was asked earlier about it.
The tone today seems like a bit people become incrementally nervous because you cut the short-term guidance expectation but then you are also telling us that you’re hiring a consulting firm that you’re currently working with that is looking at the integration but also then looking at the entire business.
So I guess if we say okay the $200 million still seems feasible longer-term it’s just the timing issue then what about the rest of the work that that firm is doing? Is this overall profitability the entire ship rises even though the synergy number long-term stays the same? I’ll start and maybe look to Vince or Richard.
I think first of all that the hiring of the consultants I think as Vince said in light of today’s world we just thought it was very prudent to take a step back and just not make the assumption that we’re going to layer this business onto existing Smucker.
We’ve been very impressed with the process and people as we’ve interacted over the last two months we’ve owned the business.
And I kind of reinforce we’ve owned this business for 10 weeks but we have spent every day of those 10 weeks learning more about this.
So again I don’t think I’d read anything more into the delay.
Ideally there may be some upside.
We’re still too early into the project to say that.
I think the important thing for the investor to hear is that we are confirming the $200 million.
If there is upside we’ll talk about that in the days to come but again it’s really the timing issue.
At the end of the day we’re pushing $25 million into next year and the year after that.
In short of that we will tell you more when we get to that point.
And then lastly very simplistically when does the lockup period end for your private equity ownership interest? I’m sorry.
Rob we had a little hard time; could you just repeat that please? I thought there was a specified lockup period for the ownership that was transferred via stock on the Big Heart Pet piece.
I just wanted to clarify that that’s the case and if there is a period that’s locked up if you just tell me when that expires.
It was 90 days following the close.
So that was what March 23 so yes we’re getting close here.
If there are no other questions I just want to thank everybody for being on today.
We look forward to seeing everybody sometime next week or somebody next week in Paris and then when we do our 50th anniversary in October in New York we’d love to see as many of you there as possible.
So thank you very much.
Have a great summer.
Ladies and gentlemen if you wish to access the rebroadcast after this live call you may do so by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 with a passcode of 7356076.
This concludes our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and have a nice day.
All parties may disconnect.