Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Snap-on Inc.
2011 First Quarter Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to your host Ms.
Leslie Kratcoski.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to review Snap-on's First Quarter 2011 results which are detailed in our press release issued [Audio Gap] Pinchuk Snap-on's Chief Executive Officer; and Aldo Pagliari Snap-on's Chief Financial Officer.
Nick will kick off our call this morning with his perspective on our performance.
Aldo will then provide a more detailed review of our financial results.
After Nick provides some closing thoughts we'll take your questions.
As usual we have provided slides to supplement our discussion.
You can find a copy of these slides on our website next to the audio icon for this call.
These slides will be archived on our website along with the transcript of today’s call.
Any statements made during this call relative to management’s expectations estimates or beliefs or otherwise state management’s or the company’s outlook plans or projections are forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those made in such statements.
Additional information and the factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are contained in our SEC filings.
With that said I'd now like to turn the call over to Nick Pinchuk.
Nick? Thanks Leslie.
Good morning everybody.
Well I'd say our first quarter results were positive.
And I believe they once again confirm clear progress in strengthening our strategic position and in improving our operating execution.
When you look at the first quarter you can be encouraged by the performance and quite positive regarding the Snap-on future.
Volumes in the period were up 10% from last year.
It was actually the best volume performance we've had in relation to pre-recession levels.
Adjusted for FX our sales were nearly identical to the first quarter of 2008.
Operating earnings were up more than 42% with a 12.6% operating margin before financial services 100 basis points higher than last year.
And we registered $12.5 million in earnings from financial services an over $14 million increase.
Consolidated operating margin of 13.9% was up 280 basis points from 2010.
On the overall environment I think it's fair to say that the landscape is not nearly as unpredicted in nuance as it has been over the past couple of years.
We believe we now have clearer visibility and that alone is a positive for us.
While there are some pockets of challenge as you would expect when you have a global operation there was broad progress in the vast majority of our businesses that more than offset the few difficulties.
For example the businesses serving the automotive space showed considerable strength.
You can see that reflected in the nearly 12% volume increase of both the Tools Group and the Repair Systems &amp; Information or RS&amp;I Group.
These are businesses where we track the activity in what we call big-ticket items high-value products things like diagnostics undercar equipment and tool storage units.
As we've been saying the customers' willingness to make commitments to those types of buys give us an insight into their financial health and into their confidence in the future.
During the downturn when the outlook was uncertain these products were particularly hard hit.
They turned the corner in the middle of last year and an upward trend continued into the first quarter of 2011.
So these recent results confirm that big-ticket is back and that optimism is strong.
Also in new automotive space we do have some activity that's tied directly to OEM dealerships -- to OEM dealerships rather than independent.
As the number of dealerships continue to shrink in the U.S.
it has created a headwind for us.
As an offset we've been increasing global essential tool activity which is driven by the OEMs and we've also been capturing Electronic Parts Catalog business in adjacent markets.
So while the U.S.
dealership rooftops are still contracting the RS&amp;I group has been recording solid gains capturing other business and overcoming the turmoil.
From a geographic perspective again it was an extension of what we've been seeing in the past few quarters.
For example in Europe we continue to see a general improvement.
Double-digit gains were the norm in the region from our industrial division to the big-ticket equipment products to our European Hand Tools business or SNA Europe.
It now seems that European weakness for us is limited to the South and especially Spain where SNA Europe does have a particularly strong presence.
Spain was down a bit again even from last year's already depressed levels.
We're just not seeing much favorable movement in that market.
Overall though the general European improvement especially in the U.K.
and Scandinavia more than made up for Spain.
Turning to emerging markets.
They also remain strong and the expansion in those arenas was another positive.
In Eastern Europe our fortified presence with our new Minsk plant helped drive significant increase in Belarus in Russia and the Ukraine.
And no surprise Asia-Pacific had strong double-digit gains again driven by increased penetration in India Thailand and China.
Related to Asia Pacific I think it's the topic the day as you would expect we saw some initial impact from the tragic events in Japan.
We're down in that country by about 5%.
We were fortunate that our associates and franchisees came through the earthquake and tsunami safely.
Having said that though there is an unsettled business environment in Japan and going forward any impact will be in place for an entire quarter rather than for only a month as was the case in the first quarter.
However for us sales in Japan are only a small percentage of the company's total volume and our most significant activity in that country tends to be outside the northeast where the most disruption is occurring.
So while nobody can predict how the Japan market will play out it will certainly be another headwind for a while.
But we've demonstrated in the recent path that we've been able to overcome to manage through challenges by finding offsets where increased opportunities present themselves.
The other consideration related to Japan is component sourcing.
Of course like most companies we do have some exposure particularly as related to the diagnostics product but we're already working with suppliers to offset or to mitigate any short-term supply chain problems and again to find offsets.
So that's the overall market update.
No major surprises and we think that's favorable.
Still a few headwinds but fairly broad growth carrying us through in driving overall gains.
Now I'll say a bit on each operating segment.
The commercial industrial group or C&amp;I saw sales increase 10.3% including a couple of points due to foreign exchange.
The operating margin was 11.6% up from 10.3% last year.
I already spoke about the favorable environment and growth we saw in emerging markets in Europe.
The C&amp;I group is where most of that business resides and the uplift in those geographies did aid the group's growth.
Let's speak for a moment about critical industries.
C&amp;I is where we're focused on extending the power of our brands and our capabilities into critical industries.
And as we said before we see great opportunity for expansion in that effort and in this quarter there were some strong positive improvements.
In the aerospace sector we're building a strong position.
And Automated Tool Control or ATC has been a high-profile product that's provided a great boost.
I've mentioned it in the past it's a new technology for this type of application.
Laser imaging originally developed for the undercar aligners but used here to control tools to make sure they're not left in the aircraft engine.
I guess I'd say that I can't think of any task more critical than that.
GC the smart tool storage box gets a lot of exposure and attention.
It's really the broad expansion of our product line more hand tools torque products and power tools developed specifically for aerospace applications that drove double-digit volume growth in this area.
We also saw strong increase also double digits in the critical natural resources arena.
This industry's a natural fit for us.
Professionals performing critical tasks with a need for quality and reliability and a high cost of failure.
So we're pleased with that progress.
Now the expansion in critical industries isn't just limited to the Snap-on brand on our industrial division SNA Europe has also grown it's offering in large tools designed for the critical mining industry under this strong Bahco brand and we're gaining position there.
Our advancements in that space fueled some significant growth in the quarter.
For example in South America Chile had a fine quarter led by the mining sector.
So we continued to make progress in critical industries and we saw solid growth in most of those segments like aerospace and natural resources.
We also had headwinds like lower military spending and field operations as sealed operations wind down around the globe.
That was a partial offset to the many advancements in Europe emerging markets and in critical industries like aerospace and natural resources.
This quarter the C&amp;I story is that broad growth overcoming a few headwinds to again post solid sales and earnings increase from the prior year.
Moving to the Tools Group where we serve professional automotive technicians we had a strong quarter.
Sales of $282 million a record up 13.5% from last year with 11% organic growth.
The OI margin of 13.2% was up 230 basis points from 2010 and that 13.2% includes $2.8 million of restructuring mainly related to our tools storage plant consolidation.
Excluding those restructuring costs the margin exceeded 14%.
Though it's clear the Tools Group is getting stronger.
I've spoke of the continued strength of big-ticket volumes and that's being supported by some great product launches.
Customer connection and innovation they're important elements of our Snap-on Value Creation Processes they keep delivering winning products.
For example our updated VERUS handheld diagnostic unit has considered -- has generated considerable excitement in the period.
The new version incorporates wireless technology.
VERUS owners can now scan the vehicle system from anywhere in the shop.
It's a productivity enhancer that builds on our already market-leading position.
And if you have a prior version of the VERUS there's an update -- an update kit is available and that's also been well received.
Last year we launched the new VERDICT handheld in the U.S.
It's simply the most sophisticated diagnostic unit available anywhere and that launch that product was a big it.
Well we took that product to the U.K.
just this past month and it started out with the same strong reception just like the U.S.
It's another strong step in solidifying Snap-on's leadership in that important European market.
And while we're discussing the Tools Group I think it's important to highlight the strength of the van channel.
We worked hard to support the network through the downturn.
We identified that as being strategically important and we are investing to that end and it's paying off.
We monitor a number of metrics to gauge the health of our franchisees business and many of those indicators are at the best levels we've ever seen.
Obviously sales are up all-time high and that helps.
But importantly franchisee turnover is down and keeps going in the right direction down.
Loan delinquencies are at a low -- at low levels and we've improved internal execution all over the corporation.
An example is another of our Snap-on Value Creation Processes RCI helps us keep improving our complete and on-time delivery performance to the franchisees.
So the van network better than ever before.
But beyond the network beyond the metrics I'll tell you that when you talk to franchisees when you speak with them enthusiasm is high.
Consider our annual kick-off meetings that are held each January this year and -- at each January.
And this year we had the highest participation ever with over 80% of the franchisees attending and sales at these events this year were up nearly 50% from 2010.
So the channel appears healthy.
And when that's coupled with our strong Snap-on brand and our unique finance company we have a substantial advantage in this space.
The results show it and we believe there's much more upside.
Let's move to the RS&amp;I group where Snap-on is expanding our presence with repair shop owners and managers.
Organic sales increased 11.7% from last year led by increases in undercar products and essential tool and facilities -- facilitation activities.
The volume helped drive operating margins 18.9% up from 18.3% last year.
We're ramping up our product development efforts especially in this group and it's paying off with better and expanding position.
This group is in fact fueling some of the big-ticket strength in the Tools Group with the diagnostic products I just mentioned through the van channel.
Additionally related thought to big-ticket category are liner volumes sold through the equipment division which is part of our RS&amp;I were up double digits in both North America and in Europe.
And our equipment operations -- when you think about equipment it's also key at collaborating with our Asian team as we take our technology and capabilities to that region with products specifically designed for those markets and that process that support that collaboration is working well as evidenced by the growth we're seeing in that emerging arena.
I'll just add 1 more item for RS&amp;I and that's our expanding position in serving the medium and heavy-duty truck market.
We've been making investments because it's a natural opportunity for Snap-on.
For example Mitchell our business that provides shop and repair information has expanded its offering beyond just cars into the Truck segment.
And it's now gaining in commercial and truck fleets.
An important part of our strategy also working with the truck engine OEMs and our partnerships here are growing through both Snap-on Business Solutions and EQS businesses.
We develop both handheld and PC-based diagnostics products that serve as essential tools for the engine manufacturers and dealer networks and also serve as broadly versatile products for independent truck repair shops.
That breadth of new products is generating significant presence and it's helping us offset some of the weakness inherent in the shrinking rooftops of the automotive OEM dealerships.
So those are the highlights for the quarter.
Considerable advancement in the 4 strategic areas we've identified as being decisive for our future.
Enhancing the franchise channel expanding with shop owners and managers extending out of the garage into critical industries and building emerging markets.
The results they confirm progress in each of those areas and we're confident that those strengthening initiatives when coupled with the improvements driven by our Snap-on Value Creation will assure that the positive trend we've already established and now reinforce with the first quarter results will continue for some time to come.
Now I'll turn the call over to Aldo for a more detailed discussion of the financial results.
Aldo? Thanks Nick.
Our consolidated operating results are summarized on Slide 6.
Overall revenue growth continued profitability increases in financial services and what we believe are significant benefits from our Snap-on Value Creation Processes generated a 52% improvement year-over-year net earnings and diluted earnings per share.
Net sales in the first quarter of $694 million dollars increased $72 million or 11.6% year-over-year.
Excluding currency translation organic sales increased 10%.
We continued to realize year-over-year sales growth throughout our businesses including increased sales to franchisees by the Snap-on Tools Group increased sales to repair shop owners and managers by the Repair Systems and Information or the RS&amp;I group and increased sales to a wide range of customers in emerging markets in critical industries in our Commercial and Industrial or C&amp;I group.
Consolidated gross profit of $331 million in the quarter increased $43 million from 2010 levels as a result of higher sales favorable manufacturing utilization savings from ongoing RCI and restructuring initiatives and favorable foreign currency effects.
Consolidated gross margin of 47.7% in the quarter increased 140 basis points from 46.3% last year.
Operating expenses in the quarter of $243 million increased $27 million from 2010 levels largely due to higher volume related and other expenses including: $6.8 million of increased performance-based and stock-based compensation including mark-to-market $2.3 million of anticipated higher pension expense and $2.2 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects.
These operating expense increases were partially offset by lower bad debt expense and benefits from ongoing RCI and other cost reduction initiatives.
As a percentage of sales operating expenses in the first quarter of 2011 were 35.1% as compared to 34.7% last year.
Restructuring costs of $3 million in the first quarter were comparable to last year's $3.2 million.
Financial services operating earnings of $12.5 million in the quarter improved $14.2 million from the first quarter 2010 loss of $1.7 million.
On a sequential basis Financial Services' operating earnings improved $3.1 million from fourth quarter 2010 levels.
As expected operating earnings from Financial Services continues to improve as our on-book finance portfolio grows.
Interest expense of $16.3 million in the quarter increased $2.3 million from 2010 levels mainly due to a higher average debt levels following last December's $250 million notes issuance.
As anticipated our first quarter 2011 effective income tax rate was 33% compared to 34.5% a year ago.
Finally net earnings in the first quarter of $56.2 million or $0.96 per diluted share increased $19.4 million or $0.33 per diluted share from 2010 levels.
Now let's turn to our segment results.
Starting with C&amp;I group on Slide 7 sales of $272 million for the first quarter improved 10.3% from 2010 levels.
Excluding currency translation organic sales increased 8.4%.
Continued higher sales to customers in emerging markets increased sales in the segment's European-based Hand Tool business and continued sales progress in the critical industries of aerospace and natural resources more than offset lower year-over-year sales to the military.
And as Dick mentioned while our organic sales in Japan were down in the quarter it did not significantly impact our overall results.
Gross profit in the C&amp;I segment of $103.6 million in the quarter increased $14.9 million from 2010 levels largely due to higher sales of favorable manufacturing utilization savings from ongoing RCI restructuring initiatives and lower restructuring costs.
Gross margin of 38% in the quarter improved 210 basis points from 35.9% last year.
Operating expenses of $72 million in the quarter increased $8.7 million from 2010 levels primarily due to higher volume related and other expenses and unfavorable foreign currency impacts.
As a percentage of sales operating expenses in the quarter were 26.4% as compared to 25.6% last year.
First quarter operating earnings of $31.6 million for the C&amp;I segment increased $6.2 million from 2010 levels.
As a percentage of sales operating margins in the C&amp;I segment of 11.6% improved 130 basis points from 10.3% last year.
Turning now to Slide 8.
On a worldwide basis first quarter sales in the Snap-on Tools Group increased 13.5% year-over-year largely due to continued higher sales in the United States.
On an organic basis sales were up 11.7%.
Gross profit in the Snap-on Tools Group of $125 million in the quarter increased nearly $20 million from last year's levels.
This increase includes contributions from higher sales and favorable manufacturing utilization and $1.7 million of favorable currency effects.
These gross profit increases were partially offset by $2.3 million of higher restructuring costs primarily due to the previously communicated consolidation of our North American Tools Storage operations into our Algona Iowa facility.
As a percentage of sales gross margin of 44.3% improved 200 basis points from 42.3% last year.
Operating expenses of $87.8 million in the quarter increased $9.6 million from 2010 levels primarily due to higher volume related and other expenses.
As a percentage of sales operating expenses of 31.1% improved 30 basis points from 2010 levels.
Operating earnings for the Snap-on Tools Group of $37.1 million in the quarter increased $10.1 million or 37.4% from the $27 million earned last year.
As a percentage of sales operating earnings of 13.2% increased 200 [Audio Gap] Turning to the RS&amp;I group shown on Slide 9.
First quarter sales of $227 million increased 12.3% year-over-year.
Excluding currency translation organic sales increased 11.7% reflecting higher sales of undercar equipment and increased essential tool and facilitation program activity with automotive OEM dealerships.
Gross profit of $102 million in the quarter increased $8.4 million from prior-year levels primarily due to higher sales lower restructuring costs and contributions from ongoing RCI and restructuring initiatives.
As a percentage of sales gross margin of 45% compared to 46.4% last year.
The 140 basis point decline is largely due to higher relative growth in the sales of undercar equipment and essential tool and facilitation program sales.
Operating expenses of $59.3 million in the quarter increased $2.6 million from 2010 levels as higher volume related product development and other costs were partially offset by savings from ongoing RCI and restructuring initiatives.
As a percentage of sales operating expenses improved 200 basis points year-over-year.
Operating earnings of $42.8 million for the RS&amp;I segment increased $5.8 million from 2010 levels.
As a percentage of sales operating margins of 18.9% improved 60 basis points from 2010.
Now turning to Slide 10.
Financial Services operating earnings of $12.5 million in the first quarter compares favorably to both fourth quarter 2010 earnings of $9.4 million and to the first quarter 2010 loss of $1.7 million.
The $14.2 million year-over-year increase in operating earnings primarily reflects the higher revenue contributions from our growing on-book finance portfolio.
Originations of $145 million in the quarter increased 24.2% compared to the first quarter 2010 levels reflecting improved approval rates and greater participation in our credit programs.
Moving to Slide 11.
At the first quarter end our balance sheet includes $785 million of gross financing receivables including $640 million from our U.S.
Snap-on Credit operation.
In the United States $530 million or 83% of the financing portfolio relates to extended credit loans to technicians.
Since 2010 year end our total on-book financing portfolio has grown about $50 million and we expect for the full year 2011 that our on-book finance portfolio will increase approximately $130 million over 2010 year-end levels.
Regarding finance portfolio losses and delinquency trends these continue to be in line with our expectations.
Now turning to Slide 12.
Consolidated operating cash flow of $27.9 million for the quarter compares to $10.4 million last year.
Our quarter end cash position of $517 million decreased $55 million from year-end levels primarily due to the funding of new loans originated by Snap-on Credit increased working investment in capital expenditures partially offset by higher net earnings.
Free cash flow in the quarter was $3 million from the operating company and as expected a negative $35 million from financial services reflecting the continued funding of new loan originations at Snap-on Credit.
Capital expenditures totaled $18.6 million in the quarter reflecting our continued commitment to planned strategic investments.
As seen on Slide 13 day sales outstanding for trade receivables was 61 days at both first quarter and 2010 year end.
As of quarter end inventory levels were up $39 million versus 2010 year end primarily to support higher levels of customer demand and as a result of foreign currency translation.
On a trailing 12-month basis inventory turns of 4.4x compared to 4.2x at the end of the first quarter of 2010 and 4.7x at 2010 year and.
Net debt at the end of the quarter was $653.2 million.
Our net debt to cap ratio of 30.5% compares to 25.9% last year and 30.1% at 2010 year end reflecting the $250 million December note issuance.
Excluding the $107.8 million withheld for the previously disclosed dispute with CIT our quarter end net-debt-to-cap ratio would have been 33.8%.
In addition to our of $517 million in cash and cash flow from operations we have more than $600 million in available credit facilities and our current A2P2 short-term credit rating allows us to access the commercial paper markets should we choose to do so.
As of the first quarter end no amounts were outstanding under any of these facilities.
This concludes my remarks on our first quarter performance and I'll now turn the call back over to Nick for his closing thoughts.
Nick? Thanks Aldo.
So we're quite encouraged by the quarter's results.
There are still challenges with continuing weakness in Spain the U.S.
dealership consolidation and now the uncertainty surrounding Japan.
There are always challenges and weaknesses.
We've consistently demonstrated the ability to overcome headwinds.
The improvements of this quarter are a testimony to the strength of the Snap-on Value Creation Processes Rapid Continuous Improvement innovation customer connection quality and safety.
It's a solid framework that's propelled us forward and we believe it will continue to do so.
We also said we would invest in the areas that we believe are decisive for our future and represent major runways for growth.
We're doing that and it's working.
We said we'd enhance the van network.
All the health metrics and the franchisees themselves say the vans have never been better.
Extend to critical industries.
We saw strong gains in aerospace and natural resources.
Expand with repair shops owners and managers.
Our SN&amp;I absorbed dealership consolidation and still grew strongly and build in emerging markets.
Eastern Europe and Asia Pacific are growing well ahead of GDP.
I mentioned in the past that we're confident we'd emerge from the downturn stronger than when we entered while the first quarter did provide some strong evidence that we did just that.
Volumes were back to the Q1 2008 levels at constant currency.
And our OpCo margin of 12.6% was 140 basis points higher than it was in that pre-recession period.
And remember that in achieving that improvement we shook off higher pension costs which are after all related to the financial crisis.
And that represented an additional 130 basis points of expense.
So our ongoing operating structure is significantly improved.
All of that Snap-on value creation investments and decisive strategic positions the credit company contributing more as projected and the first quarter results.
We believe those are strong signals that Snap-on is well positioned for continued improvement and to take full advantage of the broad runways for growth that are now clearly evident before us in the quarters and years ahead.
Before I close I want to again express my appreciation and gratitude to all our associates and franchisees for their commitment.
I know many of you are listening in to this call.
You are responsible for the progress that's been made that's been achieved and for the encouraging first quarter results.
You have my congratulations and you have my thanks.
Now I'll turn the call over to the operator for questions.
Operator? Yes thank you sir.
[Operator Instructions]  We'll take our first question from Jim Lucas with Janney Capital Markets.
A couple of questions here.
First C&amp;I I thought it was interesting that you called out military as 1 of the headwinds and I wanted to see if we could just drill down a bit further because I mean clearly the comps are getting tougher in C&amp;I.
But not that 8.5% core growth is not shabby by any means but what would the growth rate have been without that military headwind? Well I think it would have been a few percent up but I think the thing about C&amp;I is you said it first to use the New York expression I'm from New York 8% isn't chopped liver we think.
And so we think it's pretty good.
And then if you look at overall C&amp;I sequentially this is about in line with the sequential seasonality that you see in the C&amp;I.
So overall we feel pretty encouraged by the quarter in C&amp;I.
If you look at the way C&amp;I behaves in the first quarter you have in there the Asia-Pacific businesses which are generally down in the first quarter seasonality wise because of Chinese New Year.
And you have the idea that the fourth quarter is a little bit up because you've got the sort of year-end budget cycle plans through the industrial businesses.
So the C&amp;I numbers we think are pretty encouraging.
Okay.
Again I just wanted a little clarification since you had called it out.
And then switching gears to RS&amp;I facilitation which we haven't heard much about the last few quarters did you sign any new facilitation contracts? And what kind of headwind was that on margins? I think you're just seeing more Facilitation business come through.
I think the dealers are coming out.
I think what you see there is the auto industry getting a little stronger and recovering from what was 1 of the deeper recessions.
And so the dealerships after the consolidation of dealerships are feeling a little more robust in placing in a few more orders.
We didn't get any more big contracts or anything like that.
The Facilitation business though can be like 15 points down from the average.
There's about a -- there could be a 15 point variation given the market performance when you're selling Facilitation versus the other business units that are in the RS&amp;I.
And that's reflected more in the gross profit line? Yes.
Yes.
Sure.
Okay.
Then bigger picture I mean it was interesting and good to hear that the big-ticket demand has remained but with gas prices now $4 and that magic number seeming to get back in the headlines more and more have you heard anything either from your dealers specifically or seen any changes in the technician's buying patterns? No.
We haven't seen that yet.
Or I don't -- our view of this when gas prices go up miles driven tends to react I think to the change in gas prices not to the absolute.
A little bit like this the gas prices go up the guy gets mad he stops driving for a weekend then he gets tired of being home.
And so he tends to drive a bit more.
But even through that period when gas prices last went up in 2008 we didn't see much impact to our revenues.
So I wouldn't expect to see it I wouldn't expect to see it over the spread of a longer term.
I don't really expect that.
And we certainly haven't seen any yet.
Now gas prices can impact our franchisee base somewhat in that they drive and they have diesel fuel but it's not a major factor.
You're talking about for every dollar of diesel price rise you get about less than 1% increase in cost and that's usually offsetable in a number of ways.
We did the last time we're working on it now.
Okay.
And then final question on the topic of cost can you just give us an update of what you're seeing on the inflation side and the expectation for full-year price versus inflation? Yes.
We do see some cost increases.
Remember our exposure is not that high we don't -- a big component of our business certainly Hand Tool business is labor but we do have some exposure in steel and in freight and component and so on.
And we see some of that drifting too.
I think the good news is steel seems to be abating for us a little bit now.
But we do see some costs but we're seeing evidence like we've always said that we're able to price against that.
As long as -- our tried-and-true situation has been our demonstrated situation is is that when the inflation is visible when it's something like steel or freight or gasoline we're able to price for it when people recognize that's the environment.
If it's something like nickel or something a little more obscure that might be another issue.
But in terms of this we see ourselves being able to price and we have been able to price when we've seen inflation here in this quarter.
Okay great.
Well congrats on a good start to the year.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our next question from Gary Prestopino with Barrington Research.
Inc.</strong> Can you on the portfolio for the financial services you've given us some idea of what the originations would be domestically.
International are -- can you give us any idea where that would be? Or does that stay kind of stagnant there? Well Gary international portfolio did grow since last time.
Sequentially it's up about $4 million and I expect that it will continue to grow not as rapid an absolute number as what you see on the U.S.
side.
And that's simply because we don't have all the mechanisms of Snap-on Credit extended globally at this point in time.
That's something we have on our long-term vision is to how can we project some of the finance company attributes internationally? That's why we talked mostly about the U.S.
portfolio.
Inc.</strong> So with originations that you've given us for U.S.
we're looking at something of between $860 million $870 million as a year-end portfolio overall Aldo? Was that about right? That's a good estimate I'd say up at about the $865 million mark considering we have a robust origination experience in Q1.
So we came out of the box stronger.
It is typical in Q1 because we have -- it reflects the growth of the Snap-on Tools Group more than anything else.
Snap-on has a lot of what we call kick-off meetings in the first quarter.
So a lot of the products that are featured in that program tend to led themselves to contract finance arrangements.
So the first quarter tends to be a little bit more robust.
But certainly we came out strong so I'd say $865 million is a -- $870 million is a reasonable expectation for full year.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just 1 more question on that.
The CIT receivables that are managed by SOC when does that run off entirely? Well the contracts tend to have an average duration in the extended credit arena of about 3 years.
So if you go back from July of '09 you'll say well we're starting to get towards the average duration of where those will be.
But all don't perform equally.
Some of the ones that don't have what we call a renewed business or add-on performance can lag to their entire duration and go out the full 3-year to 5-year cycle.
Also in there there's a pocket of van leases and there's some long-term leasing of equipment.
We don't usually see those terminate early or come to early payment.
So those could be laggard to the portfolio.
So the bulk of the extended credit will run off this year.
The remainder of it could be a tail that hangs out there for a few years but it will create much less noise in 2012 than what it does this year.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just last question.
It seems that you're at a -- total company wide a more normalized level of operations relative to where the worldwide economies are.
So as we think of your quarters Q2 would be the second strongest sales quarter Q4 would be the least -- Q3 would be the least and then Q4 would be the strongest.
Is that how we should think about that? Yes.
That's generally right but it's not wildly different.
The big seasonality in our business Gary most definitely is the third quarter.
And so everything else it's kind of noise around it.
You're talking about the third quarter down 5% or 6% or 7% that kind of thing.
But we generally think -- I think I've said on these calls that it's very difficult to judge anything from the third quarter results.
It could be up and down depending on whether the Europeans come back from vacation or go longer those kinds of things.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
We'll move on to Dax Vlassis with Gates Capital Management.
Yes.
If I look at the internal growth rate of the company for the quarter I think it was about 10%.
How much of that was units and how much of that was pricing? There wasn't very much pricing in that.
I would say minimal pricing.
Okay.
But you said that the -- that you're...
Sure.
But the thing is we're seeing that much -- we're not seeing that much material on inflation either.
So we're not seeing much in terms of pricing.
I would say less than 1% would be pricing.
I'd say that the first quarter reflects really pricing actions that took place in Q3 Q4 of last year.
And up until the first quarter we haven't seen a lot of the inflation effects on the commodity front.
But we have forward-looking price increases that have already been announced and they'll be in place beginning in April.
So we're already in place.
Well if you raised prices in the second half of last year you'd have pricing up year-over-year in the first quarter versus the first quarter no? And we do.
And that's why we say it's probably 1%.
Okay.
So it's 1% -- so you're saying it's of the 10% 1% was pricing 9% of the units and you had 1% sort of inflationary pressures in your costs.
Yes.
Yes.
That's a good summary.
Yes.
Okay.
And the on the cash flows of the company obviously you seem to put some more working capital in with higher inventories obviously on the higher sales.
On the inventory turns do you think there's opportunities to improve that? Do you think you'll wring some more cash out of working capital this year on a full-year basis? Well I think first of all there's a seasonal question and so the inventory turns almost seasonally always go down from the fourth quarter to the first quarter.
That happens to us.
I think the answer is we probably will see some modest improvement some improvement in working capital as we go forward in the year.
There's a seasonality event there.
What we did here and you'll be entitled to view this we took special action around inventory because I directed the Tools Group to add inventory to offset to make sure that we had no disruption when we made the Tool storage plant consolidation in the United States.
And that's happening now.
So some of what you're seeing is that.
And then secondly in Europe as Europe came back we saw raw material shortages in Europe.
And so we asked the Europeans to put in place a little more raw material and whip so that they can serve their customer somewhat better.
So you'd be entitled to view that as an idea that that would come out as the world matures and we put behind us the consolidation in Tool Storage and that's going to happen through the year.
And then I believe the raw material situation will stabilize in Europe as we go forward and that inventory will come out.
Right.
And then regarding the balance sheet I mean if I look at the debt of the company especially the way you sort of I mean I guess Financial Services is consolidated but you sort of break it out as sort of a separate entity as if it were a separate entity and that if I look at the leverage that you use in that business it's sort of moderate and on the whole company it's -- if you look at it on a sort of operating basis excluding Financial Services that it sort of looks extremely low.
What is the priority for cash flow? Because it looks like you have really -- I mean it looks like you can generate significant amounts of cash and really have nowhere to go with it as far as -- I guess you have 1 issue of debt pay down that's about $200 million this year but other than that...
I disagree with the idea of nowhere to go.
That's the first thing I'd say.
I wouldn't characterize it quite like that.
I mean first of all we do have cash flows that are associated with the credit company and of course as the on-book portfolio comes on that will leave cash from us.
We have to repay the debt and that comes due in the middle of next year.
Then we have substantial ideas around organic growth.
And you see our capital investment ramping up this year to greater than last year.
And we have acquisition opportunities that are coherent to our strategy in critical industries and serving repair shop owners and managers that lay out before it.
So I think we have ample places to put that cash.
Well that's kind of what I was getting at the acquisition opportunity and sort of how do you view the pipeline for that? And how do you look at the multiples of these businesses? Obviously given what I'm looking at the overall company Snap-on trades at a relatively cheap multiple.
And I'm just wondering about acquisitions about the amount you'd have to pay for acquisitions versus buying your own stock here.
Well I think our policy on the stock buyback is more or less we offset dilution.
We think we have places where we can put the money at reasonable prices and make a lot out of it.
When we acquire somebody we think we can make them a lot better.
Because we've got Snap-on Value Creation Processes.
We impose -- when we put that on an acquisition we can make them better than they were before because those processes are tight and capable and value creating around safety and quality and customer connection and innovation and Rapid Continuous Improvement.
It did a lot for our company and we acquired ProQuest the Electronic Parts business in what late to almost early 2006 late 2007.
That business has been rocked by dealership consolidations in the interim and the Snap-on Value Creation system has wrung profitability out of that and allowed us to offset it.
So we feel pretty confident we can acquire somebody 1 and make them better just with Snap-on Value Creation and secondly and secondly we can add it to our -- because we're not looking at acquiring somebody that's sort of like -- that's unrelated to our business.
We see ourselves saying we can grow coherently.
We're just -- we're taking the Snap-on brand out of the garage and into critical industries.
So of we would acquire a company that had a position in let's say aerospace or natural resources and added it to the power of the Snap-on brand there would be synergies beyond the idea of the processes we would bring to that company.
And so there will be tremendous value created.
So I'm not so worried about the multiple question.
Well okay.
And just to be clear when you're talking about I mean businesses you're not talking about buying turnaround situations you're talking about decent businesses that you would improve.
Yes.
I mean yes.
I'm not saying that we're buying businesses to turn them around but I think we can improve almost most businesses we see actually.
Okay thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we have no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Leslie Kratcoski for any additional or closing remarks.
Great.
Thanks everyone for joining us this morning to review our results and what we know is a very full earnings release date.
A replay and the transcript will be available shortly after this call and we wish you the best.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Have a great day.
Good day and welcome to the Snap-on Inc.
2011 Second Quarter Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Leslie Kratcoski.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to review Snap-on's Second Quarter 2011 results which are detailed in our press release issued earlier this morning.
We have on the call today Nick Pinchuk Snap-on's Chief Executive Officer; and Aldo Pagliari Snap-on's Chief Financial Officer.
Nick will kick off our call this morning with his perspective on our performance.
Aldo will then provide a more detailed review of our financial results.
After Nick provides some closing thoughts we'll take your questions.
As usual we have provided slides to supplement our discussion.
You can find a copy of these slides on our website next to the audio icon for this call.
These slides will be archived on our website along with the transcript of today’s call.
Any statements made during the call relative to management’s expectations estimates or beliefs or otherwise state management’s or the company’s outlook plans or projections are forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those made in such statements.
Additional information and the factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are contained in our SEC filings.
Finally today's discussion and presentation include reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the previously announced $18 million arbitration settlement gain recorded this quarter from the resolution of the dispute with CIT relating to the former financial service's joint venture.
Please refer to the company's earnings release issued today and to the slides accompanying this webcast for a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to those most directly comparable GAAP measures.
With that said I'll now turn the call over to Nick Pinchuk.
Nick? Thanks Leslie.
Good morning everybody.
Well the second quarter results were reasonably strong again and I think it's safe to say that we're encouraged by the continued progress.
Overall sales in the quarter were up 12.2% from last year with some help from exchange rates.
Organically volume rose by over 7%.
The overall operating margin was 15.4% and operating income was up more than 44% from 2010 and both of those comparisons exclude the positive effect of the arbitration settlement with CIT.
The 40-plus percent rise in operating income is similar to what we posted in the past couple of quarters so these results mark a continuation of an ongoing and strong trend.
The profit increase included a $15.8 million rise in earnings from Financial Services but a real highlight was the quarterly operating margin of 13.6% before Financial Services.
That Opco [ph] OI margin represents the highest level Snap-on has achieved in well over 15 years.
Now we believe the operating performance and the trend clearly demonstrates the strength of our Snap-on value creation processes safety quality customer connection innovation and rapid continuous improvement.
It's a framework we apply everywhere at every level to improve our performance and our commitment to those principles and processes are enabling our broad progress.
Now with respect to the macro environment the various markets in which we operate the second quarter was fairly unchanged from what we spoke about 3 months ago.
I characterize our performance brought -- our performance has widespread gains in most areas more than overcoming those few continuing headwinds we mentioned in the past.
I'll provide a bit of color on the quarter and cover the highlights for each of the operating groups.
And then as usual Aldo will offer a detailed financial review.
From a geographic perspective the same dynamics are present for our operations that have been in play for the past couple of quarters.
In North America no real change.
Look the overall 10% volume growth in the Tools Group reflects the same stable upward trend that we've become accustomed to in North America.
Also the big-ticket diagnostics and tool storage units that are sold in the van channel remain strong and that's a continuing positive for us.
Our Undercar Equipment another big-ticket category was also up in North America better than our overall sales increase.
The same was true in our distribution and general industrial sales in the region.
Moving to another area of strength the emerging markets of Asia Pacific.
Again this quarter we saw strong double-digit gains.
It's no secret that those markets are expanding and we're taking advantage as we build presence and gain position.
Throughout that jurisdiction but especially in China in India in Indonesia we're seeing growth far above both GDP rates and the company's overall pace of growth.
We continue to see progress in most of Europe in the established markets like the U.K.
Sweden Finland and we're growing in the East in Eastern Europe of course in Russia but also in other developing areas like Poland and in Turkey.
And the gains we've seen are across business segments from big-ticket undercar equipment to industrial customers to SNA Europe's.
But the overall growth in that region was somewhat muted by the ongoing economic weakness in Southern Europe.
You might remember that for Snap-on these are large markets by way of SNA Europe and we're not seeing relief.
Countries across the south like Spain and Portugal remain weak.
But you know that's no real surprise given the almost daily news from that region.
Actually when it comes to Europe given the turbulence we feel okay about no major changes for us at Europe over the past few quarters.
Speaking of headwinds another that we mentioned last quarter is Japan.
The situation there is fairly well known it's unsettled as we thought it would be for a while.
The good news is it's isolated and most people believe it's temporary.
Now for the operating segment.
For the operating segments and a view on the advancements we've made in those strategic areas which we've identified as decisive for our future: expanding into critical industries building in emerging markets enhancing the franchise network and expanding in the repair garage.
In Commercial-Industrial or the C&amp;I group sales were up 8.1% from 2010 levels.
However excluding the benefit from foreign exchange volumes increased about 2%.
The operating margin was 10.4% up 50 basis points from last year.
And as you expect from the geographic discussion I just provided most areas here were up solidly widespread double-digit rises.
Keep in mind however that C&amp;I is where we see most of the impact of those fairly specific headwinds of Southern Europe the unsettled situation in Japan and the lower military spending which we discussed last quarter.
So the story in C&amp;I is robust gains in most areas partially offset by the concentration of our external headwinds in this one segment.
C&amp;I operations outside those concentrated headwinds grew organically as double digits very much in line with the gains in the Tools Group and in the Repair Systems and Information Groups.
From that perspective we're encouraged by the progress along run rates from growth in C&amp;I.
And that progress can be seen in the volumes the positive motion in Asia Pacific and in critical industries such as aerospace and natural resources.
All these continued with their trend of strong double-digit growth.
But more important than the sales in a particular quarter we know that Snap-on is building expanded long-term presence in each of those strategic areas.
Just last month the corporation had a strong showing at the Paris Air Show.
It is widely recognized as the most prestigious aircraft exposition in the world and many of you know that our array of products for the aerospace sector is expanding.
While in Paris we highlighted the high-tech Automated Tool Control unit or ATC and our newly increased range of torque products aimed at aerospace.
And the response was very enthusiastic.
It's that kind of growing presence that's generating the big gains we're seeing in this critical industry of aerospace.
And the gains are being driven by customers throughout the industries from airlines in support of their fleet to aircraft manufacturing facilities and into the maintenance and repair of overhaul shops or MRO facilities.
And as you would expect the opportunities here are across the globe and Snap-on is increasingly valued in this important sector.
We feel encouraged by that.
I've spoken in the past about the partnerships with technical schools in creating certification programs.
We believe it's a great way for technicians of the future using Snap-on products.
It's a great way to get the technicians of the future to use Snap-on products to get them to see the quality and the professionalism of the Snap-on brand and ultimately for them to become Snap-on customers for life.
We continue to build those programs in the U.S.
and internationally and across the wide range of disciplines from automotive repair to critical power generation to aerospace.
And as part of that progress an array of key technical schools across the U.S.
have adopted Snap-on certification protocols and that practice is expanding.
Our sales in Education were up over 20% again in the quarter.
But more importantly we believe those gains are setting the stage for future growth across all the critical industries.
I already mentioned the rapid growth we're seeing in Asia-Pacific but I'll just provide one example of the products that are helping to drive that expansion.
During the quarter we released a new version of our diagnostics unit in China.
The handheld includes a new touch screen interactive display as well as expanded vehicle and system coverage.
As you can imagine in China with relatively recent development of the new car market the repair wave is just starting to form.
Our handheld unit is getting great reviews and is positioning Snap-on to ride that wave as it breaks.
So that gives you a little insight into C&amp;I continued advancements in critical industries in emerging markets significant gains with offsets from a few concentrated headwinds in that segment.
Moving to the Tools Group where we serve professional automotive technicians.
Sales were up 13% including 3 points related to currency and the operating margin was 15.5% up 300 basis points from last year.
Sales of diagnostics products to the vans were up strongly.
We're continuing to see the benefits of the successful launches of both our high-end VERDICT and our updated VERUS handheld unit.
Those products are innovative big-time productivity enhancers and they're driving a big-ticket strength across the Tools Group.
We said we need to maintain and even enhance our van network.
It's been a big focus for us and it's showing in the results.
Again this quarter the franchisee health metrics are moving positively.
Obviously the sales are up but our franchisees are in better overall financial shape the turnover is low and we believe that the network is stronger than ever.
We did get some validation of that progress in the quarter when Franchise Direct published its annual global franchisees report.
The Snap-on franchisee proposition ranked sixth overall the top-ranked tool company by a wide margin in fact the top-ranked industrial company of any type.
This is a publication that's a leading source of information for the franchise industry in both North America and Europe so it was a valuable endorsement for us.
The rankings were based on several criteria including stability growth best practices and support and training and those are areas that all have directly benefited from our focused efforts to enhance the channel and from the application of Snap-on value creation processes.
Now on to the Repair System &amp; Information Group.
This is where we serve vehicle repair shop owners and managers and where we have a great opportunity to expand the Snap-on brand throughout the garage.
RS&amp;I posted a sales increase of 13.9% just under 10% excluding currency.
And the operating margin it was 20.9% a 150 basis points up from 19.4% last year.
Related to the growth in those shops our Equipment division was up in both North America and in Europe.
Over the past several years we've had done a number of innovative products and equipment and they're propelling us forward.
The OEMs increasingly are directly signing on to these products and that additional exposure is a big plus.
Particularly strong in the quarter were big-ticket alignment products up more than double the group's growth rate.
This is a product where we have a lead in imaging technology and we're taking advantage.
Also related to our expansion in the garage we're increasingly seeing -- serving medium and heavy truck market with information and diagnostics.
We have launched the new Pocket iQ handheld diagnostic unit specifically for the Truck segment.
It's designed for anyone diagnosing and repairing trucks from dealers to fleet maintenance shops even to owners.
We're also working with truck engine OEMs launching software for diagnostic testing for repair information and for reprogramming capabilities to ease repair work across their entire line of OEM engines.
And in the independent repair sector Mitchell 1.
Mitchell 1 has been making investments in truck repair and information for some time.
Now we're well-positioned and we're gaining in the truck software space.
We've spoken in the past about a relatively small direct exposure to automotive OEMs.
But obviously as the rooftops in the U.S.
decrease our Electronic Parts Catalog business to Snap-on Business Solutions has been impacted.
But we're finding offsets both internationally and in adjacent markets areas like motorcycles and agriculture and we have made gains in those areas.
Also related to this space we continue to see increased activity in essential tool distributions.
The OEMs are more freely commending and that's helping drive some of the sales increases in RS&amp;I.
So that gives you a picture of what's going on in the operating units.
As I said in the beginning of my remarks here the Snap-on value creation processes are driving our progress customer connection building relationship with students creating customers for life innovation new diagnostics units in the U.S.
and the U.K.
and in China for cars and for trucks.
Undercar new undercar equipment building on technology leadership winning new customers and products expanded to serve critical industries automated tool control and wider torque offerings.
And of course rapid continuous improvement or RCI one of our biggest value creators.
The operating income margin tells that story 13.6% before Financial Services up 140 basis points stronger than we've been in some time.
We believe we've come out of the downturn as a stronger company than when we entered and the Snap-on value creation processes made it possible.
Now I'll turn the call over to Aldo for our financial review.
Aldo? Thanks Nick.
Our consolidated operating results are summarized on Slide 6.
Overall revenue growth increased profitability in Financial Services and what we believe are ongoing benefits from our Snap-on value creation processes generated a 44% improvement in year-over-year operating earnings.
This operating earnings improvement excludes the $18 million arbitration settlement gain recorded during the quarter.
That sales in the second quarter of $726.7 million increased $79.1 million by 12.2% year-over-year.
Excluding currency translation organic sales increased 7.2%.
We continue to realize year-over-year sales growth broadly across most of our businesses including increased sales to franchisees by the Snap-on Tools Group higher sales to repair shop owners and managers by the Repair Systems &amp; Information Group our RS&amp;I and increased sales to a wide range of customers in emerging markets and critical industries that are commercial and industrial or C&amp;I Group.
Consolidated gross profit of $342 million in the quarter increased $38.4% million from 2010 level.
As a result of higher sales $11.1 million of favorable foreign currency effects savings from ongoing RCI and restructuring initiatives of $1.9 million of lower structuring costs.
Consolidated gross margin of 47.1% in the quarter improved 20 basis points from Q2 of last year.
Operating expenses in the quarter of $243.4 million increased $18.6 million from 2010 levels largely due to $8.3 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects and higher volume related in other expenses including a $4.2 million of anticipated higher pension expense.
As a percentage of sales operating expenses in the quarter were 33.5% it improved 120 basis points from 34.7% last year restructuring cost of $1.9 million in the quarter compared to $3.1 million last year.
Operating earnings from Financial Services of $17.5 million before the arbitration settlement improved to $15.8 million from second quarter 2010 levels.
Sequentially and as expected Financial Services operating earnings continues to improve as our on-book financial portfolio grows.
Interest expense of $16.3 million in the quarter increased $3.1 million from 2010 levels mainly due to higher average debt levels following last December's $250 million notes issuance.
Next month we intend to repay $200 million of 6.25% notes upon the maturity with available cash.
Our second quarter effective income tax rate of 34% was higher than last year's 31.2% rate primarily due to the mix of earnings including the impact of the arbitration settlement gain that is taxable in the United States.
And finally reported net earnings in the second quarter of 2011 were $78 million or $1.33 per diluted share.
Absent of settlement gain which contributed $0.19 per share net earnings in the quarter were $66.9 million or $1.14 per diluted share.
This represents an increase of 47.7% when compared with the $45.3 million or $0.78 per diluted share earned in the second quarter of last year.
Now let's turn to our segment results.
Starting with a C&amp;I Group on Slide 7 sales of $279.7 million for the second quarter improved 8.1% from 2010 levels.
Excluding currency translation organic sales increased 1.9%.
Sales to a wide range of customers in emerging markets in critical industries were up considerably in the quarter.
However the rate of year-over-year organic sales growth in the C&amp;I group was again affected by lower sales to the Military continued weakness across Southern Europe and some impact in Japan from last quarter's natural disasters.
Gross profit of $102.4 million in the quarter increased $9.8 million or 10.6% from 2010 levels primarily due to the higher sales of lower restructuring costs $4.2 million of favorable currency effects and $2.8 million of savings from an ongoing restructuring of ongoing RCI initiatives partially offset by inflationary in other cost increases.
Gross margin of 36.6% in the quarter improved 80 basis points from 35.8% last year.
Operating expenses of $73.2 million in the quarter increased $6.1 million from 2010 levels primarily due to unfavorable foreign currency impacts higher volume-related expenses and higher restructuring costs.
As a percentage of sales operating expenses in the quarter were 26.2% as compared to 25.9% last year.
Second quarter operating earnings of $29.2 million for the C&amp;I segment increased $3.7 million or 14.5% from 2010 levels.
As a percentage of sales operating margin in the C&amp;I segment of 10.4% improved 50 basis points from 9.9% last year.
Turning now to Slide 8.
Second quarter sales of the Snap-on Tools Group increased 13% year-over-year largely due to continued higher sales in the U.S On an organic basis sales were up 10%.
Gross profit in the Snap-on Tools Group of $132.4 million in the quarter increased $17 million from last year's levels primarily due to the higher sales led by increased sales of hand tools and diagnostic products and favorable currency effects.
These gross profit increases were partially offset by higher structuring costs for the previously communicated consolidation of our North American tools storage operations.
As a percentage of sales gross margin of 44.3% improved 60 basis points from 43.7% last year.
Operating expenses of $86.2 million in the quarter increased $3.7 million from 2010 levels primarily due to higher volume-related and other expenses and $1.6 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects partially offset by $1.5 million of lower bad debt expense.
As a percentage of sales operating expenses of 28.8% in the quarter improved 240 basis points from 31.2% last year.
Operating earnings for Snap-on Tools Group of $46.2 million in the quarter increased $13.2 million or 40% from the $33 million earned last year.
And as a percentage of sales operating earnings of 15.5% increased 300 basis points from 12.5% last year.
Turning now to the RS&amp;I group shown on Slide 9.
Second quarter sales of $234.5 million increased 13.9% year-over-year.
Excluding currency translation organic sales increased 9.7% reflecting continued higher sales to repair shop owners and managers.
Gross profit of $107.4 million in the quarter increased $11.7 million from prior-year levels primarily due to higher sales and $3 million of favorable foreign currency effects.
As a percentage of sales gross margin of 45.8 declined 70 basis points from 2010 levels reflecting the higher relative growth in sales of undercar equipment and essential tool and facilitation program.
Operating expenses of $58.4 million in the quarter increased $2.7 million from 2010 levels primarily due to higher volume-related expenses and $2.1 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects.
As a percentage of sales operating expenses of 24.9% improved 220 basis points from 27.1% last year.
Our operating expenses as a percentage of sales also benefits from the higher mix of undercar equipment and essential tool facilitation program sales which tend to exhibit lower operating expense levels relative to the other businesses within RS&amp;I.
Operating earnings of $49 million for the RS&amp;I group increased $9 million or 22.5% from 2010 levels.
As a percentage of sales operating margin of 20.9% improved 150 basis points from 2010.
Now turning to Slide 10.
Financial Services operating earnings of $35.5 million in the quarter of 2011 includes the previously discussed $18 million arbitration settlement gain.
Excluding the settlement gain operating earnings of $17.5 million in the quarter compares favorably to both first quarter earnings of $12.5 million and to fourth quarter 2010 earnings of $9.4 million.
The $15.8 million year-over-year increase in operating earnings from $1.7 million last year to $17.5 million in the second quarter of 2011 we believe is testament to the earnings potential of our growing on-book finance portfolio.
Originations of $153.1 million in the quarter increased 12% compared to last year's levels reflecting increased sales in Snap-on tools higher approval rates as well as increased participation in our credit programs.
Moving to Slide 11.
As of the second quarter end our balance sheet includes $845 million of gross financing receivables including $697 million from our U.S.
Snap-on Credit operation.
In the United States $576 million or 83% of the financing portfolio relates to extended credit loans to technicians.
Since the beginning of 2011 our global on-book financing portfolio has grown over $110 million.
In the remainder of the year we expect that our on-book finance portfolio will roughly increase by an additional $45 million.
Regarding finance portfolio losses and delinquency trends these continue to be in line with our expectations.
Now turning to Slide 12.
Net cash used by operating activities was $13.7 million in the quarter.
This compares to net cash provided of $55.5 million in the second quarter of last year.
This $69 million year-over-year net decrease primarily reflects the return of $89.8 million of cash previously withheld from CIT related to the arbitration settlement.
This return of cash combined with the funding of higher inventory levels and new loans originated by Snap-on Credit were partially offset by higher net earnings.
Similarly our quarter-end cash position of $418 million decreased $154 million from year-end levels primarily due to the funding of new loans originated by Snap-on Credit the return of cash to CIT and increased levels of working investment in capital expenditures partially offset by higher levels of net earnings in 2011.
Free cash flow from Financial Services was as expected a negative $116 million primarily due to the return of cash to CIT and the continued funding of new loan originations at Snap-on Credit.
Free cash flow from the operating company was a positive $82 million.
Capital expenditures totaled $14.7 million in the quarter.
As seen on Slide 13 day sales outstanding for trade receivables of 59 days at quarter end improved from 61 days at both first quarter and 2010 year end.
Inventories increased $63 million from year end primarily to support increased customer demand and to mitigate supply-chain disruption from both the recent natural disasters in Japan and the consolidation of our North American tool storage operations.
Currency translation also contributed $12.9 million of the inventory increase.
On a trailing 12-month basis inventory turns of 4.3x compared to 4.4x at the end of Q1 and 4.7x at 2010 year end reflective of the higher inventory.
Our net debt-to-capital ratio 32.4% compares to the 30.1% at 2010 year end and 28.3% last year.
The year-over-year increase is primarily reflective of last December's $250 million bond issuance.
In addition to our $418 million of cash and cash flow from operations we have more than $600 million in available credit facilities and our current A2P2 short-term credit rating allows us to access the commercial paper markets should we choose to do so.
As of second quarter end no amounts were outstanding under any of these facilities.
This includes my remarks on our second quarter performance and I'll now turn the call back over to Nick for his closing thoughts.
Nick? Thanks Aldo.
These are interesting times but we believe Snap-on's performance confirms the underlying strength of our businesses and the ongoing potential of our runways.
We're quite encouraged by the results.
Sales up nicely Opco [ph] OI margin at a relative high meeting headwinds and overcoming.
Financial Services continuing to fulfill the promise of profitability that we believed in from the original acquisition now 2 years ago.
Snap-on's potential is unfolding just the way we've been describing for some time.
The Snap-on value creation processes are driving improvements.
Margins are up again.
Opco [ph] by 140 basis point and the overall company by 320 basis points.
And again this quarter we're demonstrating progress along our strategic runways for coherent growth.
The van network has been enhanced.
Cash collections are up turnovers down and Snap-on was named the top industrial franchise by Franchise Direct.
We had expanded in the repair garage.
Our liner sales continue their upward trend and our big-ticket diagnostics are increasing their penetration.
The Snap-on presence is expanding further in critical industries.
Sales continue to grow significantly in sectors like aerospace and natural resources and our presence in emerging markets keeps building.
Our growth in China India and Indonesia confirm the opportunities.
So that's our quarter more evidence that Snap-on has considerable strength capabilities and position.
It has much more runway for growth and improvement and as it embarked firmly on the path that we believe will continue our progress for some time to come.
I once again want to end my remarks -- I want to end today by speaking to the many franchisees and Snap-on associates that I know are on the call.
All of what we discussed today the encouraging results the strategic progress would not have been possible without your commitment and your contribution.
For all that you do for all that you have done for Snap-on and our team you have my congratulations and you have my thanks.
Now I'll turn the call over to the operator for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Jim Lucas of Janney Capital Markets.
I wanted to focus first on the Tool side of the business.
You talked a little bit in the prepared remarks about the improved franchise metrics citing some things such as turnover in particular.
And I was wondering if could give us a little more granularity on turnover metrics number of vans today with the comment of the franchises being stronger than ever and just any additional color you could provide in terms of helping us better understand the point [indiscernible].
Sure the turnover's at a relative low I think.
We've been tracking it back.
I can't say it's at an all-time low because we don't have the statistics at our hand that's way back 20 or 25 years.
But in recent history it's at an all-time low now down below I would say 10%.
So we find that to be pretty good for us and that's quite manageable.
One of the problems with turnover is it could become very expensive.
But at this level we have the ability to manage it quite well.
The way we see this is that we've invested all through the recession and try to help our franchisees in terms of continuous improvement the productivity on their van in terms of upgrading their system and in terms of giving them access to other opportunities like more efficient ways to ensure they're advanced more efficient ways to communicate more better ways to manage their vans from a fuel consumption point of view.
And we see all that coming through in these numbers.
Now in terms of the van side I think the numbers are somewhere just south of 3 500.
That's been growing gradually.
I want to say on a year-over-year basis single digits.
So it's been moving upwards but not at a large pace but it's been very stable.
And with regards to the 15% margin in tools I mean is the phenomenal number we've been waiting a long long time to see the potential of getting unlocked and that's very gratifying to see.
When you look at the margin profile of tools today where is the potential for that? And I guess secondary to that question is what impact did mix have on margins this quarter? Let me speak of that in a couple of ways.
The first thing is if you're thinking about the short term and you want to extrapolate off of this I think what have to think of for Snap-on of course for the Tools Group and for our business in general is the second quarter is a good strong quarter for us.
The third quarter is always uncertain.
We have in the Tools Group the van drivers will take time off.
They have to go on vacation sometimes.
They usually go on the third quarter and we put the Snap-on Franchisee Conference in that period.
So if you're looking at the short term I don't think you can extrapolate from second quarter onto the third quarter.
You have to get that effect in the Tools Group and you have the effect in Europe of vacations which are always in my experience of indeterminate length depending on the year in Europe.
So you have in the short term.
In the longer term we feel very positive about our position in the Tools Group.
I don't know if you can extrapolate off the 15.5%.
In the past we have said that our target for operating margins for the entire corporation is around mid-teens and we thought the Tools Group would approach that.
In this second quarter it got above that number.
It started to go into the back end the back half of that number.
I don't know what you can make out of one quarter.
But having said that we feel very good about where the Tools business is today.
That's not being driven by necessarily an extraordinarily rich mix of the business.
It's simply being driven by RCI by good strong sales by our ability to price against inflation which we said before and a combination of those things.
And together with I suppose you could say robust sales of big-ticket items like diagnostics and tool storage.
So I think you could look at the Tools Group second quarter and say "Wow that is an extraordinary quarter.
They have been selling on -- they are operating on all cylinders.
They probably have gained some share if you look at their growth in this situation.
They've got good growth and they're performing well and the mix is very robust.” I don't know if you can extrapolate from that number.
And then finally on C&amp;I you've got the ongoing headwind that persist out there and a lot investments that have been made and with the core growth in the quarter shows that those investments clearly are paying off.
But as we look out to the second half of the year and when you start thinking about budgeting next year how are you thinking about those headwinds persisting and the ability to potentially accelerate the growth rate within C&amp;I given all of those other opportunities outside of the headwinds? Sure.
If you take away as I said in my call if you take away the headwinds in those concentrated areas C&amp;I grew just like we always believed it would double digits.
But let's talk about the headwinds.
Look Japan is going to fix itself.
I was just there about 4 weeks ago myself and it is still having trouble associated with rolling power cuts and so-and-so.
But that will all work itself out as we know the Japanese do they're very ingenious and so on and so.
We think Japan comes back from its current malaise I don't know it will go back to prerecession levels or not but you'll certainly see recovery.
So I think that fixes itself out toward the back of the year.
If you're talking about the military I don't know where the government goes but the comparisons get easier year-over-year.
So when you're talking about a growth scenario that looks like we have managed over at least through this quarter maybe another quarter the worst of that and we'll start building from a base.
I have given up predicting Spain.
Because I think I would have said a year ago that Spain's got to get better.
We believe we're not losing market share but the Spanish market was down again and I think what you're seeing is if you just pick up a newspaper and read about it you can see the roots of that across Southern Europe.
And so that's how I see C&amp;I.
Good strong double-digit growth happening just like we thought it would.
Three concentrated areas of headwinds 2 of which we think dissipate as we go through the year in the third and fourth quarter varying time constants.
And Spain I'm not so sure.
We're confident it's going to come back but I can't predict the timing.
And we'll now move on to Gary Prestopino with Barrington Research.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions on the Financial Services portfolio.
When do you think that sit receivables will totally we run off by Aldo? I think that you'll see the balance of that portfolio.
It runs often but at ever-slowing pace Gary because the most vibrant of accounts have already come over.
But in year 2012 is when I think we've been looking to say we will be at our future state.
There will be very little noise from the CIT old portfolio.
Inc.</strong> So there'll be little impact in 2012? I think so.
Inc.</strong> Okay and then in terms of either balance sheet capacity or where you want to take this where do you think this portfolio goes in a year and a half? I mean can you overall be managing a portfolio of close to $1 billion? I think so.
I think we've already spoken about a portfolio size of around $925 million.
It will largely reflect the growth in the Tools Storage business.
That's largely what their financing is sales to mechanics in those markets where the Tools Group serves.
So it will be that order of magnitude.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of what you guys do on new products you often say that you put out about 40 new products a year that generate over $1 million per product.
Are you on track to do that this year as well? Sure.
We sought some of it.
We tried to give some color of that in my remarks and we're seeing that.
If you could see the new products we're going to roll out at the Snap-on Franchisee Conference I think you would be excited.
I was excited when I viewed some of them and it's across the line.
We see them in industrial aimed at critical industry some new stuff that excites people in critical industries.
We see new products in power tools and torque and tools storage and hand tools and diagnostics and it will all be rolling out as we go through the year.
So if anything it's getting stronger.
I think we feel better about that and part of the reason why we had this good quarter I think is because we've been driven by a new product.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the emerging markets can you give us any idea of what percentage of your sales are coming from there now versus where they were last year at this time? Or is that something you just don't disclose as of yet? We generally don't disclose it.
I can tell you it's between 5% and 10% and it's increasing every year between last year.
That's generally what we've kind of held to and I think we'll stay there but it's growing.
It's 5% and 10% growing greater than GDP greater than the rest of the company on a base that's smaller.
But still pretty nice growth for us when you look at it on the margin.
Inc.</strong> And is it safe to assume that the majority of those sales are in China or is it split evenly between China and India? Well the biggest piece is China but we get -- this month we get good growth out of it in India.
And actually this month we tried to highlight that Indonesia is becoming a bigger market for us.
I think that's the underappreciated growth engine in Asia-Pacific.
Having lived there for 11 years myself I know that for a long time Indonesia malingered in political promise but I think they solved some of it.
A couple of years ago they had a currency problem but now they seem to be hitting as I said before on other things hitting on all cylinders.
So we're pretty positive about our position here and have a good position in Indonesia.
So that was a contributor this quarter for us and we look to it to be a contributor going forward.
[Operator Instructions]  And we'll move on to our next question from Jared Platts [ph] with Robert Baird.
Actually it's David Leiker.
Nick 2 things.
On C&amp;I first I just want to -- I missed some of your comments earlier I just want to confirm the comment I heard earlier.
Are you saying that your C&amp;I business excluding Southern Europe Military and Japan is running double-digits? Yes that's what I said.
And is that consistent with what we would have seen in the first quarter where the segment as a whole had organic growth of 8% or 9%? Yes it's pretty much like that.
I think we're not seeing any -- the question is are we seeing any back-offs in the industrial area or the critical industry areas? We are not seeing anything like that.
I know there's a lot of discussion about industrial back-and-forth in a number of different sectors particularly over the last few days.
We like our Industrial business.
And now we have a specialized industrial business.
First we're armed with the Snap-on brand with all these guys and all these professionals in the industry loved and revere.
And secondly we're aiming just at the critical.
We're just not so easy to back off of when you need the results because the need for repeatability and reliability is important.
So I think we're in a great spot in the industrial sector.
Yes I agree.
I think that's fantastic.
So if we look at this move from this 8% to 9% with 2% organic growth it would seem that most if not all of that is a function of Military and Japan is that fair? Actually Spain was down too.
Spain was down.
Spain has gotten worse? Spain got worse.
I almost want to say "Shut my mouth." I was surprised by that because we -- that's why I've given up predicting Spain.
Although we don't think -- our customers are still buying it's just small amounts.
We don't think we lost share.
And then on the other side if we look at what Stanley Black &amp; Decker reported yesterday or 2 days ago it looks like there's some volume gains that are going on there.
I know it's hard to tell how much of it because the revenue numbers we see are from the corporate to the dealer and not the dealer to the street do you have any sense with their change in ownership and direction there? Is Mac being run better? Or they have a better presence in the market? Do they have a better value proposition? Can you just talk about what's going on in that regard? I will let others opine on how Mac is being run.
I have a lot of respect for the Stanley management myself but I don't know what's actually -- we're not seeing any change at the -- where the rubber meets the road at the customer base second quarter versus first quarter.
If anything we thought our -- we think our competitive position is fairly robust.
I would offer that Gee I think double-digit growth 10% in the Tools Group that's got to be pretty strong.
I don't think we're losing out or losing position to anybody in that situation.
I even think we're getting stronger.
Our people feel we're getting stronger.
I was with 1 200 customers at Joliet Illinois at the National Drag Racing Championships about 10 days ago.
And when I talked to our franchisees they were quite enthusiastic and quite full of themselves in terms of confidence.
So if the numbers if the anecdotal evidence is anything I feel we're if anything stronger than ever.
And if the metrics are anything I think 10% indicates that we're growing.
And by the way the comparison wasn't that easy.
If you look at the Tools Group they were pretty strong last year in the second quarter.
So at 10% growth year-over-year it's not small.
It's fairly significant.
I can't explain necessarily the Stanley numbers.
And again if you have questions about your selling into the van and I'm not exactly sure what's in those numbers.
What did you see in your -- in terms of end market demand yout dealer sales how did those track relative at the corporate level? Pretty much in lockstep with our corporate levels.
If the question is are we building inventories on the vans? I don't believe so.
We're not building inventories on the vans.
So generally we see this as just a reflective of the marketplace.
I think what you're seeing in the van channel is is good robust product.
We have some nice nice products out there that's engaging the customers.
And I say that you can't dismiss the fact that our franchisees are we believe stronger than ever before.
We feel better about our franchisee population than we ever have in the past.
By the way Franchise Direct kind of said something like that.
We were 6 and no tool manufacturer was even close and no industrial franchiser is even close.
We felt good about it.
At this time we have no further questions.
I'd like to turn the call over to Mrs.
Leslie Kratcoski for any additional or closing remarks.
Well thanks everyone for joining us today.
And a replay of the call will be available on our website snapon.com shortly.
As always thanks for your interest in Snap-on and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for attending.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Snap-on Inc.
2011 Third Quarter Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
And now your host for today's conference Ms.
Leslie Kratcoski Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Kratcoski please go ahead ma'am.
Thanks Rufus and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to review Snap-on's third quarter 2011 results which are detailed in our press release issued earlier this morning.
We have on the call today Nick Pinchuk Snap-on's Chief Executive Officer; and Aldo Pagliari Snap-on's Chief Financial Officer.
Nick will kick off our call this morning with his perspective on our performance.
Aldo will then provide a more detailed review of our financial results.
After Nick provides some closing thoughts we'll take your questions.
As usual we have provided slides to supplement our discussion.
You can find a copy of these slides on our website next to the audio icon for this call.
These slides will be archived on our website along with the transcript of today's call.
Any statements made during this call relative to management's expectations estimates or beliefs or otherwise state management's or the company's outlook plans or projections are forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those made in such statements.
Additional information on the factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are contained in our SEC filings.
With that said I’ll now like to turn the call over to Nick Pinchuk.
Nick? Thanks Leslie.
Good morning everyone.
Well I would characterize our third quarter as an extension of the broad progress we’ve been making for quite some time.
And I would say that the continuing trend is especially encouraging in light of the generally negative macroeconomic news we seem to be hearing almost every day.
Overall our sales in the quarter were up 6.8%.
Excluding currency organic volumes increased 3.6%.
Now last year's third quarter did create some tough year-over-year optics because we were in the midst of a fairly robust recovery and there really wasn't any of the normal 5% seasonal sequential decline we usually see in the third quarter.
From that perspective this year's sequential downtick of 3.5% was a bit better then usual.
So this period's volume is a positive indicator.
Operating income for the quarter rose by over 37% and our operating margin of 15.8% was up from 12.5% last year.
Now those numbers include $15.8 million in higher earnings from Financial Services and that's the result of the continuing ramp up of our on-book portfolio.
Looking at the results before Financial Services.
The third quarter operating margin of 13.5% was up 140 basis points in part aided by that favorable mark-to-market adjustments highlighted in our release.
But even excluding those adjustments Opco operating income in the period represents a new record high for a Snap-on third quarter.
We believe the advancements we're making are a great testimony to the effectiveness of the Snap-on Value Creation Processes the principles and processes we apply every day in moving the company forward: safety quality customer connection innovation Rapid Continuous Improvement or RCI.
It's that framework that enables our progress and it's driving our strong profitability.
As usual I'll now review some of the highlights for the quarter provide my perspective on the market environment and offer a view on the strategic areas we've identified as being decisive for our future extending to critical industries building in emerging markets enhancing the franchise network and expanding in the garage.
Regarding the overall environment I'll just comment that based on our various businesses it can be characterized as generally unchanged from the past several quarters.
I view that as a real positive because if you pick up the paper or watch the news on any given day you'll get the feeling that there's been a decided turn for the worst but we're just not seen it.
That said I do think the well-documented troubles in Europe are creating a bit more uncertainty and therefore less visibility.
But we’ve had a high level of European uncertainty as well as a headwind in Southern Europe for quite a while and we've managed through it by taking advantage in other places where opportunities are expanding like in emerging markets and in critical industries and in automotive repair.
So there is some uncertainty as there has been for some time.
But we're not seeing any overriding downturn.
Probably the best summary measure I can give you is this.
In the third quarter our volumes excluding the effect of currency movements were above the third quarter levels of both 2007 and 2008 the strongest period before the recession took hold.
That same comparison for the first 2 quarters of this year showed 2011 slightly below those earlier year levels.
So if recapture of pre-recession level is your measure of recovery momentum our third quarter was another favorable data point and it occurred despite the bad news all over the press.
Moving to the highlights of the operating segments.
The Commercial &amp; Industrial Group sales increased 6.6% that's 2.6% organic growth excluding currency.
The operating margin was 10.6% a 20 basis point improvement from the second quarter but down from the 11.7% last year reflecting the concentration of our major headwinds in this segment the weakness in Southern Europe as well as contracted military spending.
These challenges primarily impact the C&amp;I Group where SNA Europe has a strong position in Spain and Portugal and where our Industrial division has felt the impact of the reduced military spending.
In the balance of the C&amp;I Group outside of those specific areas volumes were actually up much more robustly about 8% organically.
Those gains reflect the progress being made in our primary areas of C&amp;I strategic focus building our presence in emerging markets and extending into critical industries.
Speaking of emerging markets the gains continue to be far in excess of any related GDP growth rate and the expansion isn't just limited to Asia.
We’re posting significant gains in the emerging European regions.
Places like Russia and Turkey are growing rapidly.
So I guess when you say emerging markets the focus is most of on Asia; the discussion is Asia.
And we did see exceptionally strong gains across that region as well in places like India in Indonesia and of course in China.
We're investing continuously in the region and it's paying off with growing position.
In that regard our Asian product offering is expanding.
Our Undercar Equipment lineup aligners in particular has been ramping up and rolling out over the past few quarters.
And as you would expect this is a product that is specifically designed for Asia and coupled with our new Asian Diagnostic Products which I discussed last quarter we're not only driving growth in the region but we're building a strong presence as the repair wave is just rising in China.
We said all along that we'll continue to invest in those areas that are strategically important.
And we're doing just that in China.
We're in the process of building a new engineering and R&amp;D center in that country.
It will be state-of-the-art.
It will support a wide range of Asianized product and it’ll help continue our rapid growth all over the region.
In addition to emerging markets we're also building our position in critical industries.
Our Aviation &amp; Aerospace sales served through our Industrial division grew strongly in the quarter.
I've spoken about our ever-expanding offering for those customers while we're highlighting that broadened array of products with what we call our Advanced Technology Labs.
These are large trucks loaded with aviation offering trav -- with our aviation offering traveling site to site to assembly plants to hangars and to maintenance and repair and overhaul locations.
We find it to be a great way to demonstrate the product right in the workplace and it's helping drive our growth.
Every month we're getting orders from new customers for tool control systems and toolkits for flight lines for assembly operations and for those MRO facilities.
Importantly as you would expect our position is improving across the globe here.
Aviation is an industry that is growing internationally.
It's certainly critical and it's right in the Snap-on wheelhouse.
On to the Tools Group where sales were up 8.1% including about 2 points from currency.
The operating margin of 12.7% was an increase of 180 basis points from last year.
The Tools Group is where we serve professional automotive technicians and they value Snap-on.
That fact was recently highlighted once again by -- as we came out on top in Frost &amp; Sullivan’s survey of technicians’ brand preferences in hand tools diagnostics tools storage power tools and pneumatic air tools.
We always distance ourselves from the competition by wide margins in this survey but this year's results showed Snap-on even further in the lead with record levels of professional technicians choosing Snap-on in several of those categories.
For example in hand tools 75% of technicians surveyed preferred Snap-on.
The next highest brand registered only 8%.
Now with that sort of position it's no wonder that our franchise network is strong.
Volumes in the third quarter for our franchisees were very robust.
And the franchisee-held metrics which we closely monitored continued their favorable trend.
The Snap-on Franchisee Conference which was held in August provided more evidence of progress in strengthening our franchise system another one of our primary strategic objectives strengthening that system.
This conference was quite a success record participation and higher than ever product ordering activity.
And aside from the metrics and the sales levels the enthusiasm the enthusiasm on display was considerable and contagious.
All of this is testimony that our network is well positioned and moving in the right direction.
Now for the Repair System Information segment or the RS&amp;I Group.
Sales were up 7.3% or 4.7% without the favorable effect of currency.
The gains were somewhat muted by the return to a more typical seasonal decline in our Undercar Equipment business which had been particularly strong in the third quarter of 2010.
The RS&amp;I operating margin of 19.6% remained very strong but was down from last year's level of I think 20.1% mainly due to growth in our Facilitation business that serves OEM dealerships.
That lower margin activity was up strongly as OEMs continue to commit to additional essential tools in diagnostic programs throughout the U.S.
and in Europe.
One of the highlights in RS&amp;I for the third quarter was the launch of our SOLUS Ultra a new full-function handheld diagnostic unit.
We introduced it at the August Franchisee Conference and it made a big splash.
It offers some real advancements ease-of-use functionality starting with the faster boot-up and a battery that charged directly from the vehicle so never any worries about power availability.
It also had a keyless adapter that makes connections to the vehicle much easier.
And it has high-resolution graphing on a touch screen that is 50% larger than the competition.
This tool is always ready to be used with improved simplicity and productivity and it’s helping support the strong results in RS&amp;I.
I mentioned earlier that the Equipment division returned to its normal seasonality in the third quarter and that counterization is driven by the fact that Snap-on has a strong position in the European equipment market where summers they tend to be a bit slower.
Our Undercar Equipment lineup in fact is where we're seeing some strong international expansion.
I already mentioned the liners in my discussion of Asian growth but we're seeing the same kind of thing in Brazil and in the emerging markets of Eastern Europe.
We're posting solid gains in those areas.
Our equipment lineup is instrumental in advancing us along 2 of our strategic runways expanding in the garage and building in emerging markets with leading technologies that does provide a real advantage.
An example of one recent new product in this area just being launched in Europe is our new RFV 2000 diagnostic wheel balancer.
It’s already getting considerable attention and winning innovation awards right out of the blocks.
We've taken our patented imaging technology to analyze the interaction between the wheel and the suspension system so this new unit predicts and will head off any vibrations all in just a few spins of the wheel achieving a balance quicker than ever before.
The RFV 2000 also laser maps the side wall and the wheel and the tire tread providing a picture of the actual and predicted tire wear heading off any future problems.
That's a feature that's going to be valued by shop owners everywhere when they’re dealing with car owners.
So that's some of the highlights in each of the operating units and while I just mentioned some of the new products in the RS&amp;I Group let me expand that discussion a bit as it relates to the entire corporation and to the Snap-on value creation processes.
Two of the tenets embedded in this framework are innovation and customer connection.
We have a great legacy in both those areas.
And we believe a huge advantage in the number of customer interactions that our people whether they're franchisees or associates have with professional users those who actually benefit from our productivity enhancing tools that customer connection gives us great insight for developing new products.
So not only do professionals prefer Snap-on as evidenced by the survey data but we're using that strong customer connection to make sure our product line just keeps getting better with new innovative offerings that customers greatly value.
Just recently we were honored to have won 2 MOTOR Magazine Top 20 Tool Award.
These awards recognize products that will help make the jobs of technicians and shop owners easier enabling them to perform vehicle repair more accurately and more quickly.
One of the winning products was the RFV 2000 that I already mentioned.
The other was the VERDICT diagnostic and information systems a modular handheld unit that includes a touch screen and wirelessly connects to the vehicle.
It also includes Wi-Fi access and Windows multitasking so that technicians can access more information including our Mitchell 1 shop key repair information system and they can do it from anywhere in the garage.
I've spoken about this product in the past and I think at that time I told you it was great innovation.
Well this award confirms that fact.
As further testimony to the effectiveness of customer connection and our innovation processes Snap-on was also named winner of 4 innovation awards by Professional Tool &amp; Equipment News.
Our products were voted the best in tool storage the best in lifts the best in shop equipment and the best in tool accessories.
The importance of this recognition is that the judges are professionals people that make their living using these very products independent shop owners and skilled technicians.
In that regard these awards speak strongly not only to Snap-on product innovations but to our strong connection to our customers.
It's a unique Snap-on advantage and it's paying dividends.
So that's our third quarter: Encouraging financials clear evidence of strategic progress and a strong pipeline full of new and exciting products.
Now I'll turn the call over to Aldo for a more detailed -- more detail on the financials.
Aldo? Thanks Nick.
Our consolidated operating results are summarized on Slide 6.
Net sales in the third quarter of $697.2 million increased $44.1 million or 6.8% year-over-year.
Excluding favorable currency translation of $19.6 million organic sales increased 3.6% as we realized year-over-year sales growth across the majority of our businesses.
Continued sales increases in the Snap-on Tools Group higher essential tool and facilitation program sales to OEM dealerships expansion in emerging markets and growth to a wide range of customers in critical industries more than offset anticipated lower sales for the military and across Southern Europe.
As Nick also noted these sales levels reflect a return to a more traditional seasonal pattern where we typically experience lower sequential sales moving from the second quarter to the third quarter.
This seasonal pattern was largely absent in 2010 as the economy was rebounding from 2009 recession levels.
Consolidated gross profit of $329.3 million in the quarter increased $28.1 million from 2010 levels reflecting contributions from higher sales $9.5 million of favorable foreign currency effects savings from our ongoing cost-reduction and rapid continuous improvement or RCI initiatives and $1 million of lower restructuring cost.
Consolidated gross margin of 47.2% in the quarter improved 110 basis points from 46.1% last year.
Operating expenses in the quarter of $235 million increased $12.6 million from 2010 levels.
The year-over-year operating expense increase includes volume-related and other costs as well as $5.2 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects $3.1 million of expected higher pension expense $2.6 million of increased performance-based compensation expense and $1.8 million of higher restructuring cost.
As noted in our earnings release mark-to-market adjustments on stock-based compensation which are calculated on the quarter ending stock price also benefited third quarter results.
The change in Snap-on's period-end stock price resulted in a benefit of $7.8 million or $0.09 per diluted share in the quarter.
And while we always have some impact from mark-to-market in our results recent stock market declines resulted in the significant third quarter benefit.
Similarly should the price of Snap-on stock appreciate during a given quarter we would incur mark-to-market expense.
As a percentage of sales operating expenses in the quarter of 33.7% improved 30 basis points from 34% last year from a restructuring cost of $2.9 million in the quarter compared to $2.1 million last year.
Operating earnings from Financial Services of $20.8 million improved $15.8 million from third quarter 2010 levels.
As expected Financial Services operating earnings continues to grow as our on-book Finance portfolio grows.
Consolidated operating earnings of $115.1 million or 15.8% of total revenues increased 330 basis points from 12.5% a year ago with the mark-to-market contributing 110 basis points.
Interest expense of $15.1 million in the quarter increased $1.6 million from 2010 levels primarily due to higher average debt levels to fund the growth in our contract portfolio of Snap-on credit partially offset by lower average interest rates.
Our third quarter effective income tax rate of 31.7% was lower than last year's 34.4% rate primarily due to the favorable resolution of certain tax matters.
Finally third quarter net earnings of earnings per share of $67.8 million or $1.16 per diluted share increased $21.3 million or 45.8% from last year's levels.
Even without the $0.09 of benefit from mark-to-market these net earnings and earnings per share represent an all-time third quarter record.
Now let's turn to our segment results.
Starting with the Commercial &amp; Industrial or C&amp;I Group on Slide 7.
Sales of $278.3 million for the third quarter improved 6.6% from 2010 levels.
Excluding currency translation sales rose 2.6%.
C&amp;I benefited from double-digit gains in both Asia and Eastern Europe.
These higher year-over-year sales to a wide range of customers in emerging markets as well as critical industries were partially offset by expected lower sales to the military and ongoing weakness across Southern Europe.
Gross profit of $102.8 million in the quarter increased $6.6 million or 6.9% from 2010 levels primarily due to higher sales $2.9 million of favorable foreign currency effects and $1.2 million of a lower restructuring cost.
Gross margin of 36.9% in the quarter improved slightly from 36.8% last year.
Operating expenses of $73.2 million in the quarter were up $7.6 million from 2010 levels primarily due to the volume related and other expenses $2.7 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects and $1.8 million of higher restructuring costs largely for the ongoing optimization of our cost structure in Europe.
As a percentage of sales operating expenses of 26.3% in the quarter compared to 25.1% last year.
Third quarter operating earnings of $29.6 million for this C&amp;I segment declined $1 million from 2010 levels largely due to overall higher restructuring costs.
As a percentage of sales operating margin of 10.6% in the C&amp;I segment compared with 11.7% last year.
Turning now to Slide 8.
Third quarter sales of the Snap-on Tools Group improved $20.9 million or 8.1% year-over-year largely due to continued higher sales in the U.S.
And on an organic basis sales were up 6%.
Gross profit in the Snap-on Tools Group of $125.2 million in the quarter increased $17.5 million from last year's levels primarily due to higher sales across several product categories favorable manufacturing utilization and $4.8 million of favorable currency effects.
As a percentage of sales gross margin of 44.8% in the Snap-on Tools Group improved 320 basis points from 41.6% last year.
Operating expenses of $89.6 million in the quarter increased $10.1 million from 2010 levels primarily due to higher volume related and other expenses including higher cost as a result of increased participation at the Annual Snap-on Franchisee Conference and $1.1 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects.
As a percentage of sales operating expenses of 32.1% in the quarter compared with 30.7% last year.
Operating earnings for the Snap-on Tools Group of $35.6 million in the quarter increased $7.4 million or 26.2% from the $28.2 million earned last year.
As a percentage of sales operating earnings of 12.7% in the quarter increased 180 basis points from 10.9% last year.
Turning to the Repair Systems &amp; Information or RS&amp;I Group as shown on Slide 9.
Third quarter sales of $222.6 million increased 7.3% year-over-year.
Excluding currency translation organic sales increased 4.7% primarily due to higher sales in our Equipment Solutions business which facilitates essential tool programs for OEMs.
Gross profit of $101.3 million in the quarter increased $4 million from prior year levels primarily due to higher sales and $1.8 million of favorable foreign currency effects.
Gross margin of 45.5% in the quarter declined 140 basis points from 2010 levels largely reflecting the growth in essential tool facilities and program sales to OEM dealerships which yield relatively lower gross margins.
Operating expenses of $57.6 million in the quarter increased $2 million from 2010 levels primarily due to $1.4 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects and higher volume-related expenses partially offset by savings from ongoing RCI initiatives.
As a percentage of sales operating expenses of 25.9% improved 90 basis points from 26.8% last year.
Operating earnings of $43.7 million for the RS&amp;I Group increased $2 million or 4.8% from 2010 levels.
As a percentage of sales operating margin of 19.6% compared to 20.1% last year.
Now turning to Slide 10.
Third quarter operating earnings from Financial Services was $20.8 million on revenue of $32.7 million.
This compares with operating earnings of $5 million or $17.2 million of revenue last year.
We believe the $15.8 million year-over-year increase in operating earnings demonstrates the earnings potential of our growing on-book Finance portfolio.
Originations of $153 million in the quarter rose 7.2% compared to last year's levels reflecting both higher sales in our Snap-on tools segment and increased participation in our credit programs.
Moving to Slide 11.
As of third quarter end our balance sheet includes $896 million of gross financing receivables including $751 million from our U.S.
Snap-on Credit operation.
In the U.S.
$609 million or 81% of the financing portfolio relates to extended credit loans to technicians.
Since the beginning of 2011 our on-book financing portfolio has grown over $160 million.
For the remainder of the year we expect that our on-book finance portfolio will roughly increase by an additional $20 million to $25 million.
The pace of the portfolios on balance sheet development continues as expected and naturally decelerates as the transition progresses.
For 2012 we would expect any further expansion of the Snap-on credit portfolio to largely reflect activity in the Snap-on Tools Group.
Regarding finance portfolio losses and delinquency trends these continue to be in line with our expectations.
Now turning to Slide 12.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $42 million in the quarter.
This compares to net cash provided of $10.2 million last year.
Our quarter-end cash position of $186 million decreased $386 million from year-end levels primarily due to the August repayment of $200 million of long-term notes continued funding for new loans originated by Snap-on Credit and the previously disclosed second quarter repayment of amounts previously withheld from CIT.
As expected free cash flow from Financial Services in the quarter was a negative $42 million reflecting the continued funding of new loan originations at Snap-on Credit.
Free cash flow from the operating company was a positive $35 million.
Capital expenditures totaled $13.3 million in the quarter.
As seen on Slide 13 days sales outstanding for trade receivables of 58 days at quarter end improved from 61 days at 2010 year end.
Inventories increased $70 million from year-end levels primarily to support higher demand and seasonal inventory builds mitigate potential supply chain disruption and to improve customer service levels.
On a trailing 12-month basis inventory turns of 4.1x compared to 4.7x at 2010 year-end reflective of the higher inventory.
Our net debt to capital ratio of 33.8% compares to 30.1% to 2010 year-end and 29.2% last year.
The year-over-year increase results primarily from last December's $250 million bond issuance net of this quarter's $200 million debt repayment and the second quarter repayment to CIT.
In addition to our $186 million of cash and expected cash flow from operations we have more than $700 million in available credit facilities including $200 million under our recently amended loan and servicing agreement.
In addition our current short-term credit ratings allow us to access the commercial paper markets should we choose to do so.
As of third quarter end no amounts were outstanding under any of these facilities.
During the quarter Fitch initiated credit ratings on Snap-on of A- and F2 which is in addition to our existing ratings of A- and A2 from S&amp;P and Baa1 and P2 for Moody's.
This concludes my remarks on our third quarter performance and I'll now turn the call back over to Nick for his closing thoughts.
Thanks Aldo.
Well that's our quarter.
Sales positive from a sequential perspective.
And from the vantage point of capturing pre-recession levels the volumes represent another step forward better than either our 2007 or our 2008 third quarter activity.
From a profit view there were adjustments that helped but even excluding those effects both OpCo operating income and our EPS in the period represent record high profits for a Snap-on third quarter.
Regarding the environment.
It was a third quarter and as I have said in the past there is considerable variation on third quarters due to vacations.
On balance however looking at our overall results it appears that just the same headwinds are in place but the positive trends are continuing despite the bad news we get every day in the press.
While our results don't indicate deterioration the difficult macros -- the difficult macroeconomic bulletins do create some limits to our forward visibility; I think that's fair to say.
But having said that I'm confident that the advantages and strengths we bring to any environment the Snap-on value creation process generates improvement in good times and in challenging times.
Our runways for growth enhancing the network expanding in the repair garage extending the critical industry and building in emerging markets they remain attractive and they’ve generated returns on our investments and on our energy for multiple quarters now.
And we're fully confident they'll provide the same strong opportunities as we go forward to the days and the quarters and the years ahead.
Before I finish though I want to once again speak directly to our associates and franchisees around the world.
I know many of you are listening or will replay this call later.
The Snap-on third quarter was another encouraging period.
And we all know that our financial and strategic progress would not be possible without your effort.
So for your extraordinary contributions for the wins you have achieved and for your commitment to your team you have my congratulations and you have my thanks.
Now I'll turn the call over to the operator for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And for our first question we go to Jim Lucas with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I want to start first with 2 housekeeping questions.
First on the military comparisons.
When do -- when does that anniversary? So that will be the first question.
Yes I said the last quarter and I think that this does certainly continue it starts to abate going into the fourth quarter.
We said last time it would be about another quarter of tough comparisons starts to get a little bit better next quarter and of course gets better as we go into the first quarter.
So we start to get out of the worst of it as we move forward into the next quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the other housekeeping question.
With the shift in the third quarter in RS&amp;I to -- with some more facilitation sales understanding the seasonal weakness on the under car side as you look to the fourth quarter would you expect the stronger facilitation sales to continue or shift back to more equipment? Well I think equipment comes back in the fourth quarter.
It has a stronger fourth quarter so you’ll see that come back.
Equipment historically has a weak third quarter.
We'll see some snap back of that in the fourth quarter on a seasonal basis.
I don't expect the facilitation business to back off in the fourth quarter though.
So I think what you're going to see looking forward is as I've outlined I think in our – as was outlined in our comments you'll see a seasonal recovery of the Equipment business.
And I think that will affect the mix in that way.
OEM will stay -- the OEM facilitation business will stay about where it is.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one of the things that you historically talked about Nick is demand for big-ticket items.
And as we got out of the seasonally slow August end of September entering into the fourth quarter I was wondering if you could just give us a update anecdotally what you're seeing out there in both the tools as well as the C&amp;I side? Yes.
We look at big ticket -- as you say big ticket is kind of our bellwether for storms coming.
And we haven't seen any back-off in the aggregate big ticket.
If you're looking at that category you're talking about tool storage units larger equipment items and larger diagnostics.
And that business has in aggregate been fairly strong.
Now of course it can be effective from quarter-to-quarter by product launches and shows and so on but we feel still that we don't see any indication of downturn in that -- out of that data.
In fact our aligner business is which is really sort of our ultimate big-ticket event is up quite strongly in this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And with regards to Europe did you see any changes as the quarter progressed? Just wondering I mean I understand exactly where you're coming from.
I mean you're echoing what we're hearing from a lot of other companies and that if you don't read the headlines things still look okay but have you seen any changes either from moderation of growth rates or anything in any specific countries or industries? I hear you.
I don't think so.
Now I'll point out though that the third quarter is kind of squirrelly in Europe so if you’re going to look week-by-week or month-by-month it's very hard to interpret anything.
I think I've said that kind of consistently.
But as I'd step back at it and look from a macro point of view we don't see this.
In fact just as you said I've said this many times and I think in the last fortnight a number of people have said the same thing to me.
If we could unplug the TVs and then withdraw from the Internet people wouldn't be talking about a downturn.
I just think our businesses look okay.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
And then final question from me very big picture each quarter we tend to ask just updates on the capital allocation side.
And given credit playing out as expected the balance sheet kind of getting where you would expect it to be the strong cash that you're generating could you talk a little bit about how you think of the dividend policy buybacks as well as opportunities on the acquisition side? Sure.
Our ranking for use of cash one organic growth.
We have lots of places we can put it.
For example some of the build in working capital in Asia and so on and then emerging markets and investing in capital expenditures support things like our R&amp;D center and so on.
Secondly would be acquisitions around that core coherent group making us -- allowing us to expand in the garage extend to critical industries or build in emerging market any of those dimensions we'd be looking at that.
And then dividends where we feel pretty strongly that our dividends for perpetuity because we've never – we’ve paid a dividend every year since 1939 and never reduced it.
So we look at moving our dividend up but it's always in the context that we're never going to move it's permanent for us.
And then after that we offset shares -- we offset dilution by buying back shares.
So those are the orders in which we look at it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And with regards to the dividend policy I mean I understand where you're coming from but it's been some time since that’s been addressed and just trying to get an idea how often that is addressed.
Yes.
I can just tell you that we look at it every quarter with the Board.
And so I think you guys can draw your own conclusions in looking at our history in this kind of things.
I think we moved it last November right? So you guys can look at that and draw your own conclusions.
I can only say we look at it every quarter.
And for our next question we go to David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> A couple things here.
You’ve touched on some of this Nick just kind of put it all together but as we look at the organic growth here in the quarter slower multiple reasons and understandable some are tightening issues and things like that.
As we look forward do you think like a 4% or 5% organic growth is achievable over time in an economic environment that we're in today? We continue to muddle along in U.S.
and Europe like we are.
With the 4% to 5% organic number...
Yes sure.
I think we've said 4% to 6% and this is kind of in that range.
I think we tried to make the point in the call that okay this is a 3.5% percent or 3.6% growth but actually if you look at it from the perspective of recapturing pre-recessionary levels it's a fairly positive quarter.
And so now we're back to pre-recession levels so I think you're talking about that 4% to 6% range going forward.
Research Division</strong> But can you do that in an environment where in U.S.
or Europe are growing 1% GDP or 0 negative 1? Yes.
I think we can.
I mean I think that we have share gain to add.
We have places where we have not unleashed the Snap-on brand.
I think that's what coherent growth is all about.
We're not looking at necessarily -- we're not necessarily looking at riding economics upwards.
We're looking at if you think about what we're doing we're talking about taking the Snap-on brand to critical industries where it's never been done -- never done before in a real serious way.
We're talking about emerging markets which are growing at faster than whatever it is 1% or 2%.
And we know there are technicians we do not call on in the Tools Group.
And we could do that.
So I think we feel pretty good about that.
Now I want to emphasize that I've said 4% to 6% kind of an annual over time basis.
I'm not saying you can do it every single quarter but I think if you look at those numbers capturing more technicians through the efficiency of the vans extending out into critical industries which are places we haven't gone before which is kind of like share capture building in emerging markets where the wave is still rising and getting into the garage a little bit more by offering more products.
I think those places ride above the specific GDP numbers.
Now if everything crashes and we have a really terrible situation like people are talking about the banks all holding up and everybody's worrying about putting money in their mattress or something then that's a different situation.
If you just talk about slow growth we feel okay.
Research Division</strong> And then I think -- just I want to confirm something I think I heard is that if you look at the seasonality that you saw in the revenue line here in the quarter this is probably a pretty normal quarter adjusting for distortions last year.
Is that fair? Yes yes.
That's right.
If you look at the second quarter this is actually a little bit better.
I mean the thing is if you look at the second quarter -- normally we're down 5% to 6%.
We're down 3.5%.
And so I would say this is within windage.
The third quarter there’s always a lot of windage so we kind of view it as a kind of normal consequence of where we were at the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as we look at Q4 and into 2012 are there any particular initiatives or costs or unusual items or things like that that we should be aware of as we look forward? No I don't think so.
I think we're going to be -- continue where we’re – well that’s what I said.
We're controlled restructurers so we're going to be restructuring about the same; we might move a little bit more.
I think -- I've said all along that because we think times are good we're still unloosening our belt a little bit from where we restricted costs way back in 2009.
So some of that flows through our P&amp;L from time to time but nothing huge I don't think.
And we're just doing the same things we've said we've been doing for a while.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One other item here.
On the Stanley call yesterday they talked about some of the initiatives that they’re gaining some traction particularly taken some of the professional tools the DeWalt brand in particular and putting on Mac truck some things like that.
Are you seeing that Mac is better run now as a distribution channel today than it was over the years? Just your thoughts on what you're seeing there.
I have a lot of respect for the Stanley management and to the extent that they would focus on Mac I suppose that would have a very positive effect on the running of that business.
And maybe that’s some of what you're seeing but when I look at our numbers and I talk to our people -- I was just with the NFAC or National Franchisee Advisory Council for the U.S.
on one weekend and a subsequent weekend with the Canadians.
They all feel pretty strongly about their position.
And they're not seeing -- they're not feeling threatened by anybody else.
So to the extent people are doing better I think maybe they're getting share someplace else; that could be part of it.
I don't know.
But our business we seem to not be seeing pressure from competitive activity; if anything we seem stronger.
And we go next to Gary Prestopino with Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you maybe help me with this issue with your stock price and the stock comp expense? Is this that you plan internally for stock comp expense relative to a certain price of the stock? And I guess what I'm getting at is in that if the stock stays where it is through Q4 are we going to see the same kind of positive impact to the expenses? No.
Look it has to do with -- I'll try to explain it and then I'll turn it over to Aldo.
I mean I'll try to give you the people's interpretation of it and then -- the whole idea is it emanates from 2 big pieces.
One is the fact that for outside the United States we grant stock appreciation rights not options.
And we have deferred compensation in the United States where you have a stock certificate not a real share and so that gets mark-to-market based on a stock price.
And so what happens is that if the stock stays at where it is today which is up from the quarter close we would see some kind of negative in the fourth quarter.
And so any time the stock -- it's a quarter-to-quarter thing so if the stock moves up during the quarter we will see a negative impact for this.
If the stock moves down we see a positive.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and in doing your budgeting you kind of roll it every quarter.
I guess what I'm getting at is… It’s beyond our control Gary.
It actually moves within the stock price itself which obviously we can't control.
So when we do our budgets and planning you might assume a certain appreciation rate for the stock over time and that's how we would approach it.
But when people have stock appreciation rights or can invest in deferred compensation programs they have the equivalent of -- they have stock equivalents.
So depending on what the price of the stock is whether it be up or down you get a favorable or unfavorable mark-to-market effect or impact.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But it's pegged as of the 30th of September price then is it? Correct.
At the end of each quarter the accounting rules require that it's the price at the close of the quarter that day and so really you have -- all you have to do is look at the Snap-on stock price at the end of each quarter and if it's up over the previous quarter it’ll be mark-to-market expense.
If it's down from the previous quarter it will be mark-to-market benefit.
Normally we’d never had this discussion because it was quite a volatile quarter as you can recall.
So if you look at the Snap-on stock price it was up in the 60s and then it was in the mid-40s so that's what caused this variation in a single quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to understand how it works.
And then could – Nick maybe -- could we drill down on a little more on Europe? I mean there's so much bad news coming out of there.
It seems that you're doing very well over there relative to what the perception is but could you maybe talk about which countries are really carrying the loads there for you? I mean you mentioned Southern Europe as definitely having some negative issues but maybe could you kind of go through Europe...
Yes I mean Spain and Portugal and I guess Italy some.
And to the extent we have business -- we've got big business.
As you know we have big business in Spain pretty big business in Portugal we've got little in Greece but Greece we have business.
And it's not so good.
And so you see sort of if you draw a line across the south we're getting pretty big headwind there.
And the problem was just to reiterate as maybe as you know but I'll just say it we have the biggest shares in Spain and Portugal so our margins were kind of strongest in that situation.
Now if you want to talk about the other regions of Europe first and foremost what's going very well for us is Eastern Europe.
Russia and the sort of Orthodox countries they are very strong for us.
The Nordic countries and the low countries are doing very well for us.
We're seeing -- and so those are the businesses those are the countries that are standing out I think.
Eastern Europe and the Nordic countries are standing out for us.
The rest of Europe is kind of doing okay but it's not as strong as Scandinavia or Russia and then the low countries.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when you're talking about Nordic countries that’s not Germany.
I'm talking about Sweden Norway Denmark Finland.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe could you – with your people that are on the ground there I mean walk with them as I'm sure you do.
Is there any kind of level of apprehension among the people there or your people as to what's going to be the end event here with Greece and the euro...
I have to tell you though no.
Actually the people at the ground level don't seem concerned about that; they seem confident.
And this is just anecdotally Gary anecdotally.
When you talk to customers or you talk to our people they see much more confident in the solution of the euro and everything that's involved in that I'd say Americans are.
That's just how I characterize it.
They don't seem as alarmed to me.
I think surprisingly actually but they seem very confident and I don't know what to do with that but I think that obviously they do have problems and there is a lot of discussion in the press.
And there's questions about what's going to happen in Europe.
And we already talked about the idea that it limits our visibility but if you're talking about the people at the ground our people seem to be confident that a solution is going to be worked out.
And things are going to move on in Europe.
The one thing I can say about our European business is we're clear that even in Spain and Portugal we haven't lost share.
It’s just that these businesses are that's our business is still intact.
So we're just there on hold waiting for the idea that the market comes back.
And we go next to Jarrod Rapalje with Longbow Research.
So one last question on Europe and just -- I understand the Southern Europe's weak and to the extent that it does carry over to these other countries can you just talk about your profitability over there compared to the U.S.
and the downside risks to earnings power in some sort of quantifiable way? No.
We never quantify the probability in Europe.
I think we haven't done that but I'll just say that our profitability in Europe has never been as strong as the United States.
So if you're going to compare those 2 it's just never been as strong for us in Europe as it has been in the United States.
Okay.
And then secondly within the Snap-on Tools segment can you break out that organic growth between price and volumes? Well yes.
Price is about between 0.5% and 1% just a small amount.
We generally price for material inflation.
We feel that -- if you've listened to prior calls we say generally that we can always get visible inflation back in pricing.
And that's what they've done over the past year and that turns out for us to be between 0.5% and 1%.
Okay.
So safe to say that with that pricing you guys are recovering all the raw material inflation you guys are seeing and is that a headwind right now? Sure.
No no no.
We're able to price for it.
I mean it's not a headwind.
First of all Snap-on isn't that big a purchaser.
Our biggest commodities are freight and steel.
And we buy I think we said about 75 million of steel.
So if you think about that it's not a lot.
Our biggest input to a hand tool is labor.
And so the commodity headwinds are a factor and I often say this on these calls I say we can price for it.
I’ll probably say -- I'd say we can deal with it and I'm pretty confident we have and we will as long as it's visible.
So if somebody decided -- we put titanium say in our steel; if somebody decided to increase of the price of titanium by 20x probably we might not be able to price for that.
And then -- because no one would know but if steel goes up by 10% we can price for that.
Now on top of that we have a very -- as part of our Snap-on value creation processes we have a -- something called RCI Rapid Continuous Improvement and we're out every day in every site with dedicated people.
We have a dedicated guy in every site pushing cost reduction and productivity.
So not only do we have a pricing but we have this productivity flowing through our plans.
And with that ladies and gentlemen we have no further questions on our roster.
Therefore Ms.
Kratcoski I will turn the conference back over to you for any closing remarks.
Thanks Rufus.
Just to let everyone know we will have a replay available shortly on snapon.com.
And as always we'd like to thank you for joining us this quarter on our call.
Thanks again.
Bye.
And again ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Snap-on Inc.'s 2011 Fourth Quarter and Full-Year Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference call Leslie Kratcoski Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Yolanda and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to review Snap-on's Fourth Quarter 2011 results which are detailed in our press release issued earlier this morning.
We have on the call today Nick Pinchuk Snap-on's Chief Executive Officer; and Aldo Pagliari Snap-on's Chief Financial Officer.
Nick will kick off our call this morning with his perspective on our performance.
Aldo will then provide a more detailed review of our financial results.
After Nick provides some closing thoughts we'll take your questions.
As usual we have provided slides to supplement our discussions.
You can find a copy of these slides on our website next to the audio icon for this call.
These slides will be archived on our website along with the transcript of today's call.
Any statements made during this call relative to management's expectations estimates or beliefs or otherwise state management's or the company's outlook plans or projections are forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those made in such statements.
Additional information and the factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are contained in our SEC filings.
With that said I will now turn the call over to Nick Pinchuk.
Nick? Thanks Leslie.
Good morning everyone.
Well our fourth quarter represented an encouraging performance to cap off the year.
The progress was not only reflected in the financials but it also can be seen in our strategic advancements.
The Snap-on Value Creation Processes the principles and processes we use everyday to guide our actions they're driving results.
Our focus on safety quality customer connection innovation and Rapid Continuous Improvement or RCI as we often call it it's paying off.
And we believe the advancements made throughout 2011 on our runways for both growth and improvement position us to go forward with strength.
Aldo will provide detail on the financials.
But first I'll offer some of my perspectives on the highlights for both the quarter and for the year.
Sales in the fourth quarter were up organically by almost 6% from 2010.
Operating income rose about 30% with our operating margin of 16.3% up from 13.5% last year.
Now that profit increase of course included some substantially higher earnings for Financial Services.
As expected that rise came right along with the continuing buildup of our on-book portfolio.
But before Financial Services the operating margin was 14.1% and that compares to 12.6% last year and represents a new high for Snap-on for any quarter.
With respect to the economic environment the events in Europe are creating a bit more of a headwind.
I don't think that'll come as a surprise to anybody.
I would however still characterize our overall market on balance as favorable fairly stable and you see that in our overall sales growth.
Just as we've demonstrated since the recovery began we were once again able to gain position and to find the pockets of strength that allowed us to offset areas of external weakness.
I told you during the discussion about 3 months ago that our third quarter sales volumes excluding the effects of currency movements were above the pre-recession levels of 2007 and 2008.
That was the first time we could claim an overall recovery in volumes.
While the fourth quarter continued that overall trend today we're reporting results that exceed fourth quarter 2007 levels which is the most appropriate pre-recession comparison.
And in addition sales increased sequentially off the third quarter consistent with our normal seasonality.
So while Europe does pose some challenges we are maintaining our momentum.
Now for some highlights from each of the segments and a discussion of our advancements in 4 strategic areas extending into critical industries building in emerging markets enhancing the franchise network and expanding in the repair garage.
We've identified these runways as being decisive for our future and we made solid progress in each of them during the quarter and for that matter throughout 2011.
In the Commercial &amp; Industrial segment or C&amp;I organic sales increased almost 5% in the quarter.
That growth was somewhat higher than the past couple of periods.
So while C&amp;I was where we see the most impact from the challenges of Europe due to our large hand tool operation in the region SNA Europe we actually saw better year-over-year comparisons than we've been posting recently.
That progress was due to the gains in our Industrial business and to our continued growth in emerging markets both in C&amp;I.
The C&amp;I segment margin for the quarter of 11.2% was down from last year's 12.6% largely reflecting the $2.9 million in additional restructuring charges and some challenges to the profits at SNA Europe as that part of the world is obviously not yet recovering.
That margin rate however was improved from what we saw in the past couple of quarters reflecting the relative strength of our Industrial businesses which posed double-digit growth and reached new performance highs.
Speaking of our Industrial division we made good progress throughout 2011 we said that on these calls extending into critical industries.
In the earlier periods however those gains were somewhat masked by the lower military activity.
In fact it was actually real positive that the reduced military volume was effectively offset by our growth in serving the other critical industries.
But now our gains in critical sectors such as aerospace and natural resources are showing through.
They're visible.
That activity in those areas is supported not only by the innovative Automated Tool Control or ATC system which is somewhat of a halo product and has garnered a lot of important attention.
But it also reflects -- that attention also reflects a wide array of hand and torque and power tools all designed specifically to make the work easier for customers in critical industries.
It's that expanded offering and the increased focus that's driving the rise in orders to support flight lines assembly facilities maintenance repair and overhaul operations oil rigs mines and power plants and giving us an ever-growing presence.
C&amp;I is also where we see much of the benefit from our emerging market strategy.
Now when you say emerging markets everybody naturally thinks of China but our emerging growth is rooted more broadly.
In the quarter C&amp;I saw double-digit gains across Eastern Europe including in important markets like Russia and in Turkey.
So 2011 was a strong year for our emerging markets where we saw large gains not only in the countries I just mentioned but across Asia as well in places like Indonesia and Thailand and of course in India and China.
And we're supporting that growth with investments.
During the year we expanded our band saw capacity in China and in Minsk and it's paid off with substantial new customers and volumes across the globe.
In China alone we now have more than triple band saw capacity since our start up.
This past year we also launched a handheld diagnostics unit specifically for the China market and our Asianized undercar equipment line is making solid inroads with local automotive repair customers.
When we spoke of emerging markets I've said in the past that succeeding there is often about presence and physicals and we're showing our commitment to that belief by building.
For example in China just this past quarter we opened another facility our new state-of-the-art Engineering Center at our complex in Kunshan.
And in 2012 we'll be expanding again with a new undercar equipment factory aimed at making sure that we can continue to serve that growing local market.
Now let's move on to the Tools Group.
Sales in the fourth quarter rose over 9% organically.
Operating margin at 13.5% was up from 9.6% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Now I'll remind you that in 2010 the 2010 number included a $4.6 million restructuring charge related to consolidating the North American tool storage production into one facility.
But while the year-over-year gain is somewhat amplified the fourth quarter rise to 13.5% still represents a 230 basis point increase even after adjusting for the favorable restructuring compares.
The quarter's result taken together with the full year operating margin at 13.7% for the Tools Group indicate clearly that that operation is showing significant positive momentum.
Given that one of our key priorities we set for ourselves years back was in fact strengthening the van channel I'm encouraged that it appears to be quite robust as we enter 2012.
Throughout last year I was able to point out significant progress in that area.
Snap-on being ranked #6 of all franchise opportunities by Franchise Direct and the Frost &amp; Sullivan survey more recognition of Snap-on by professional technicians as their preferred brand by larger margins wider than ever before and awards from MOTOR Magazine and Professional Tools &amp; Equipment News for innovative products that make the technician's job easier.
But more importantly more important than outside recognition the best testimony to a strong system comes directly from our franchisees.
They've told us in confidential surveys and in public discussions that overwhelmingly if given the chance to do it all over they would again commit to a Snap-on franchise and they would also recommend the opportunity to a friend or family member.
That may be the best endorsement we can ever get.
Just this past week and I spent a weekend -- just this past month I spent a weekend with a number of our franchisees during the annual kickoff meetings and their enthusiasm I'm telling you confirms the progress we've made.
They tell me that one of their big advantages while out calling on technicians is our captive finance companies Snap-on Credit.
Our successful transition from a joint venture to a wholly-owned Snap-on entity without our customers' experience and any disruption was certainly a key factor in maintaining the health of our network and in supporting the global growth we've been posting.
The credit companies' portfolio continues to ramp up onto our book.
It's performing well and it's adding to our bottom line.
But more important than the financial returns in today's world of tight credit our franchisees and our technician customers are benefiting significantly from access to consistent and available financing.
And we see it in the numbers.
The growth in the operation -- so that's some color on the state of the tools.
The growth in that operation has been substantial.
And I can say that all of those things I've just mentioned are driving the growth and we are very encouraged by the results of the Tools Group in this period it's showings strength.
Now for Repair Systems and Information or the RS&amp;I.
Fourth quarter organic sales were up 2.4%.
The operating margin was 20.8% and that compares to the 19.7% achieved in 2010.
The growth in the operation was somewhat muted by our undercar equipment business which is the other area where we have exposure to Europe reflecting our significant market position in that region.
Remember that the RS&amp;I businesses are focused on serving repair shop owners and managers and they're working to expand our strong brands of products throughout the repair garages of the world.
I mentioned our equipment product position in Europe.
Well in the fourth quarter we reinforced that strength when we launched our updated V3D aligner in Paris.
That new product offers some attractive productivity enhancing features such as a VIN reader that automatically loads the vehicle's specification and an improved user-friendly technician interface.
Both innovations that simplified vehicle alignment.
And as you might imagine the new unit was quite enthusiastically received.
We also continued to get great reviews for our new diagnostic wheel balancer which was recognized by MOTOR Magazine as one of the top 10 products.
I mentioned it last quarter our unique imaging technology providing a digital map of actual and predicted tire wear and heading off problems with a quick balance and just a few spins of the wheel.
That product is now being placed in training facilities where technicians learn and/or enhance their craft.
Both the new aligner and the new balancer represent just the type of innovation that we continue to roll out.
And we believe that that's the key to gaining position and to overcoming economic challenges -- offer products that pay back through productivity gain committed users who are trained using those very products.
As the economics for the automotive OEM seem to be improving we've seen those manufacturers commit to new essential tool requirements customized diagnostics for both their U.S.
and European dealer bases and we're getting our share of that business.
We're also expanding into near adjacent segments.
I've spoken in the past about growth in the medium and heavy-duty commercial vehicle sector with repair informations and diagnostics products that capitalize on our unique knowledge bringing it into that sector.
In that same manner we're also able to take that information technology and that diagnostic know-how and apply it to areas such as agricultural and construction equipment.
We're starting to get traction there and both those areas represent attractive opportunities.
And when you reach further into that same segment we also see that our Electronic Parts Catalog or EPCs products that work so well in aiding vehicle technicians to prescribe locate and order just the right part also had important applications for those working on agricultural and construction equipment.
Our EPCs are also becoming a valuable opportunity in this space.
As I mentioned in the past our overall EPC business was challenged by the decline in the U.S.
automotive OEM dealership group tax.
So we've been extending to other opportunities.
Our expertise in serving independent repairs repair garages with shock management repair information and handheld diagnostics gives us we believe a unique customer connection and an insight into those customers' needs.
We've taken that advantage and successfully deployed an all made EPC called more [ph] for the independent markets.
The product offers the independent shop an access to the parts operations of OEM dealerships providing availability and pricing and parts ordering information.
And this is a business in which both dealerships and independents want to participate.
Now integrated with our Mitchell 1 shop management software the combination offers even more efficient workflow and productivity in the independent shops throughout the United States.
You can see by this discussion I think that we're working across the corporation to provide a full array of products to repair shops and our managers from diagnostics to repair information to shop management software to undercar equipment and including customized tool storage units.
It's paying off with independents and with OEM dealerships.
In fact many of the larger dealerships are outfitting their shops with a consistent professional look that is more and more demanded by OEMs all while providing great productivity solutions and we're helping them do it.
Well those are the highlights.
Organic growth in the quarter of almost 6% encouraging from an overall post-recovery perspective.
Operating income increases at both OpCo and SinCo [ph] reaching new highs our areas of strength combining to more than offset any headwinds.
An abundant evidence clear evidence that we're continuing to take strides clearly moving forward along strategic runways for coherent growth.
It was an encouraging quarter.
Now I'll turn the call over to Aldo for a detailed discussion of the financial results.
Aldo? Thanks Nick and good morning to everyone.
Our consolidated operating results are summarized on Slide 6.
Net sales in the fourth quarter of $736.6 million increased $39.7 million or 5.7% year-over-year.
Excluding foreign currency translation organic sales increased 5.9% reflecting sales growth across the majority of our businesses.
Higher sales in the Snap-on Tools Group combined with increased sales to a wide range of customers in critical industries and emerging markets higher essential tool and facilitation program sales and higher sales of diagnostics and Mitchell 1 software products more than offset weakness in Europe particularly in the southern regions.
Consolidated gross profit of $335.8 million in the quarter increased to $17.3 million from 2010 levels.
As a percentage of sales gross margin of 45.6% in the quarter was comparable with last year.
Operating expenses in the quarter of $232 million were on par with 2010 levels.
As a percentage of sales operating expenses of 31.5% in the quarter improved 160 basis points from 33.1% last year largely due to benefits from sales volume leverage savings from RCI and restructuring initiatives lower bad debt expense and lower stock-based mark-to-market compensation expense.
These improvements were partially offset by higher performance -based incentive compensation expense and $2.6 million of higher pension expense.
Restructuring cost the $4.4 million in the quarter compared to $5.8 million last year.
Operating earnings before Financial Services of $103.8 million in the quarter increased $16.3 million or 18.6% from 2010 levels.
As a percentage of sales operating earnings before financial services improved 150 basis points from 12.6% last year to 14.1% this year.
Operating earnings from Financial services of $22.1 million in the quarter improved $12.7 million from 2010 levels reflecting the continued growth of our on-book finance portfolio.
Consolidated operating earnings of $125.9 million in the quarter increased $29 million or 29.9% from 2010 levels.
As a percentage of revenues operating earnings of 16.3% improved 280 basis points from 13.5% a year ago.
Our fourth quarter effective income tax rate of 33% compared with the 30.1% rate of last year.
The lower 2010 rate benefited from nonrecurring tax items including the December 2010 extension of certain federal tax incentives.
Finally net earnings of $74.3 million or $1.27 per diluted share in the quarter were an all-time  fourth quarter record up $16.4 million or 28.3% from last year's levels.
Now let's turn to our segment results.
Starting with the Commercial &amp; Industrial or C&amp;I Group on Slide 7.
Sales of $295.4 million for the fourth quarter increased 4.9% from 2010 levels.
Higher year-over-year sales to a wide range of customers in emerging markets and in critical industries particularly aerospace and natural resources were partially offset by the weakness in Europe.
Gross profit of $106.4 million in the quarter declined $1.6 million from 2010 levels largely due to $2.9 million of higher restructuring cost incurred to further improve the segments cost structure in Europe.
In addition benefits from higher sales and RCI incentive were partially offset by margin pressure in Europe.
Gross margin of 36% in the quarter compared with 38.4% last year.
Operating expenses of $73.4 million in the quarter were up slightly from 2010 levels.
As a percentage of sales operating expenses of 24.8% in the quarter improved 100 basis points from 25.8% last year primarily due to benefits from RCI initiatives and sales volume leverage.
Fourth quarter operating earnings of $33 million for the C&amp;I segment declined $2.4 million or 6.8% from 2010 levels largely due to $2.7 million of higher year-over-year restructuring costs.
As a percentage of sales operating margin of 11.2% in the C&amp;I segment compared with 12.6% last year.
Turning now to Slide 8.
Fourth quarter sale from the Snap-on Tools Group of $292.8 million improved $24.6 million or 9.2% from 2010 levels largely due to continued higher sales in the United States.
Gross profit in the Snap-on Tools Group of $123.9 million in the quarter increased $16.7 million from 2010.
As a percentage of sales gross margin of 42.3% in the quarter improved 230 basis points from 40% last year primarily due to $4.3 million of lower restructuring cost benefits from favorable foreign currency effects and continued savings from RCI initiatives.
Last year the Snap-on Tools Group incurred $4.6 million of initial restructuring cost in the fourth quarter for the 2011 closure of the Newmarket Canada tool storage manufacturing facility.
Operating expenses of $84.3 million in the quarter increased $2.9 million from 2010 levels.
As a percentage of sales operating expenses of 28.8% in the quarter improved 160 basis points from 30.4% last year primarily due to benefits from sales volume leverage.
Fourth quarter operating earnings of $39.6 for the Snap-on Tools Group increased $13.8 million or 53.5% year-over-year.
As a percentage of sales operating earnings of 13.5% increased 390 basis points from 9.6% a year ago.
Excluding the effect of restructuring expense operating income margin improved 230 basis points year-over-year.
Turning to the Repair Systems and Information or RS&amp;I group shown on Slide 9.
Fourth quarter sales of $236.5 million increased $4.7 million or 2% from last year's levels.
Excluding currency translation organic sales increased 2.4% mainly due to higher sales in our Equipment Solutions business which facilitates essential tool programs for OEMs along with higher sales of diagnostics and Mitchell 1 software products to repair shop owners and managers.
These increases more than offset the weaker sales to European equipment distributors that Nick already mentioned.
Gross profit of $105.5 million in the quarter increased $2.2 million from prior year levels.
As a percentage of sales gross margin was 44.6% in both the fourth quarters of 2011 and 2010.
Gross margin improvements in 2011 from ongoing RCI initiatives were primarily offset by higher restructuring costs.
Operating expenses of $56.3 million in the quarter decreased $1.3 million from 2010 levels.
As a percentage of sales operating expenses of 23.8% in 2011 improved 110 basis points from 24.9% last year principally due to the benefits from sales volume leverage savings from RCI initiatives and lower restructuring costs.
Operating earnings of $49.2 million for the RS&amp;I group increased $3.5 million or 7.7% from 2010.
As a percentage of sales operating margin of 20.8% in the quarter increased 110 basis points from 19.7% last year.
Now turning to Slide 10.
Fourth quarter operating earnings from Financial Services was $22.1 million on revenue of $35.5 million.
This compares with operating earnings of $9.4 million on $21.5 million of revenue last year.
The $12.7 million year-over-year increase in operating earnings primarily reflects the growth of our on-book finance portfolio.
Originations of $155 million in the quarter rose 9.1% compared to last year's levels reflecting both higher sales in our Snap-on Tools segment and increased participation in our credit programs.
Moving to Slide 11.
As of the fourth quarter end our balance sheet includes $935 million of gross financing receivables including $786 million from our U.S.
Snap-on credit operation and $149 million from our international finance subsidiaries.
In the U.S.
$636 million or 81% of the financing portfolio relates to extended credit loans to technicians.
During 2011 our on-book financing portfolio has grown just over $200 million.
The pace of the portfolio's on balance sheet development has continued as expected and will naturally decelerate as the transition of the CIT owned portfolio to Snap-on Credit nears completion.
As such for the full year 2012 we anticipate that the gross on-book portfolio will increase by approximately $125 million over 2011 year-end levels which is slightly ahead of our previously communicated future state level for the portfolio of approximately $1 billion.
As our transition moves towards completion we expect further expansion of the Snap-on Credit portfolio to largely reflect activity in the Snap-on Tools Group.
Regarding finance portfolio losses and delinquency trends these continue to be in line with our expectations.
Now turning to Slide 12.
Consolidated operating cash flow of $72.3 million for the quarter and $128.5 million for the year includes the effect of a $48 million discretionary cash contribution to our U.S.
pension plans.
For the full year 2011 we contributed in total approximately $61 million to our various global pension plans.
As expected free cash flow from Financial Services in the quarter was a negative $36 million reflecting the continued funding of new loan originations at Snap-on Credit.
The operating company generated positive free cash flow of $58.3 million in the quarter representing a $33 million increase over the prior year.
Capital expenditures of $14.6 million in the quarter and $61 million for the full year included continued spending to support our strategic growth initiatives including the expansion and enhancement of manufacturing capabilities in both the U.S.
and abroad.
As seen on Slide 13 day sales outstanding for trade receivables of 58 days at 2011 year end improved from 61 days at 2010 year end.
Inventories increased approximately $60 million from 2010 year-end levels largely to support higher demand mitigate potential supply chain disruption and improve customer service levels.
On a trailing 12-month basis inventory turns of 4.2x compared to 4.7x at 2010 year end reflective of the higher inventory.
Sequentially inventory [indiscernible] 4.1x in Q3.
Our year-end cash position of $186 million decreased $387 million from 2010 year-end levels principally due to the $200 million August debt repayment.
Funding for new loans originated by Snap-on Credit.
The previously disclosed $89.8 million second quarter repayment of amounts withheld from CIT and a $48 million discretionary pension contribution.
Our net debt to capital ratio of 34.3% compares to 30.1% at 2010 year end reflecting the uses of cash in 2011 that I just reviewed.
In addition to our $186 million of cash and expected cash flow from operations we have more than $700 million in available credit facilities including our $500 million revolving credit facility and $200 million loan and servicing agreement.
In addition our current short-term credit ratings allow us to access the commercial paper market should we choose to do so.
As of 2011 year end no amounts were outstanding under any of these facilities.
This concludes my remarks on the fourth quarter performance.
I'll now briefly review a few [Audio Gap] 2012 as outlined in this morning's release.
We anticipate that capital expenditures in 2012 will be in a range of $60 million to $70 million.
Our restructuring expenses for the year are expected to include an estimated $6 million to $8 million charge in the second quarter associated with the settlement of a pension plan related to the 2011 closure of the Newmarket Canada facility.
Exclusive of this charge pension expense in 2012 is expected to be comparable with 2011 levels.
During 2012 we intend to make required contributions of $12.6 million to our foreign pension plans and $18.3 million to our domestic pension plans.
Depending on market and other conditions we may elect to make discretionary contributions to our domestic plans.
Finally we anticipate a full year effective income tax rate of approximately 33.5%.
With that I'll now turn the call back over to Nick for his closing thoughts.
Thanks Aldo.
Well to wrap up we're quite encouraged by our results for the full year in general and for the fourth quarter in particular.
Our attention to the Snap-on Value Creation Processes are driving real improvement.
OpCo operating margins for the year and the quarter were up from last year 140 basis points and 150 basis points respectively both significant increases.
And we continue to bring the credit company on-book with reliability without disruption and with profitability just as we said we would.
We believe we're making clear advancements on our strategic runways for coherent growth the van network is more robust profits are up turnover is down.
RS&amp;I is expanding our offering to shop owners and managers in new places.
Our growth in critical industries within double digits and we've built more physical capability in emerging markets with the opening of our new engineering center in Kunshan.
As usual we do have continuing challenges in Europe and other places but the strength of our strategic initiatives brought us to an almost 6% organic sales gain in this quarter well into our target post-recovery range despite the headwinds.
And our operating company in common OI margin for both the quarter and the year represent record levels for our company despite the headwinds.
Summing it all up we're encouraged by the results by the progress they evidence by the strength they confirm and most of all by the prospects they imply.
I'll end as we always do by recognizing that the performance over the quarter and the year reflects the special dedication of our Snap-on associates and franchisees around the world.
I know that many of you are listening.
You are the ones who have created this performance and have made this trend possible.
For your extraordinary contribution to Snap-on and for your unwavering commitment to our team you have my congratulations and you have my thanks.
Now I'll turn the call over to the operator for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> This is Joe on the line for David.
I'm sorry I hopped on the call a little late so I apologize if you gave this number.
But the past few quarters you've given us C&amp;I organic growth number x Europe would you happen to know them? C&amp;I number x Europe I don't know if we've given that in the past.
I think we gave it Southern Europe in the past I'm not sure we have that or interested in giving that or will give that at this time.
If you want to call back later maybe we...
Research Division</strong> Yes I was just -- rather to have I guess excluding the headwinds so Southern Europe but I...
The thing to do if you --  what I will tell you is this Europe breaks down pretty much like this.
If you look at our businesses in Europe we have Southern Europe and Southern Europe is down further than it has been in the past 15% to 20% now.
And so that is particularly right down the center of C&amp;I.
This time we have an impact on the Equipment -- we have the Equipment business which is down in Europe Now I'm not sure if that's economy related or just 1/4 motion because the Equipment business can be a little lumpy.
And last year there was a couple of shows in Europe that made it difficult and that made the comparisons difficult.
But the rest of Europe for us is up 2% to 3%.
Now that's softened from where we were.
If you pull out -- I suspect if you pull out everything out of all the European businesses out of C&amp;I you're talking about a 5% to 6% to 7% growth in C&amp;I so you're still seeing a pretty robust business if you take Europe out of it.
Now I will call your attention to if you weren't on the call the big pieces that's very strong in C&amp;I is the Industrial business and we've been mentioning that our runway for growth and in critical industries has been open for us.
And in the past quarters it's been masked by the military activity going down.
But this quarter with the military activity comparisons being a little softer on a year-over-year basis that business grew by double digits.
So in balance you have C&amp;I down you have C&amp;I impacted by Europe but still growing in our 4% to 6% range so let's say at around this 5% to 6% range without Europe.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And I actually wanted to touch on the other growth aspect of C&amp;I the emerging market piece.
Do you happen to know what Thailand as a percent of that segment represents because I'd imagine with all the flooding they're going to need a lot of car repair in the near term? Would you think less of me if I admitted to not knowing the Thailand number at this time.
But if you want to call in we may have it.
I think our business is reasonable in Thailand but a kind of secondary market.
The big markets in Asia are India China Japan Indonesia Philippines.
Thailand would be in the second level around Malaysia Singapore and Thailand.
I think you're right.
I think there is opportunity for it to grow there.
We have a good share.
We have a reasonable position at least in the I guess top end of the market.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then one last one for me the Tools business obviously had a great quarter and organic growth accelerated sequentially growing 9% wherein Q3 it looks like it was up 6% organic.
You've always talked about that business being maybe at the lower end of the 4% to 6% sustainable range.
I'm just wondering going from 9% what's going on in that business that's enabling such strong growth and where do you see it going forward to the next...
Well I think one quarter does not a whole trend make.
So I wouldn't get -- I don't think we get excited about any of our businesses particularly about one quarter or another.
I think you can't draw any conclusions big conclusions from one quarter.
But I'll say this the Tools Group we have said for a long time that they have to deal with a certain fixed space the technicians in the United States.
But then we have also said very quickly that our vans call on only a subset -- fully enabled our vans only call on a subset of that space because they've just -- it's a productivity issue.
They only have so many hours in the week because they have to call on these people every week.
And if we can enable them with RCI then volume will accrue.
And that's what's been happening.
You're seeing RCI flow through the vans.
Now is it going to happen at 9% every quarter? I don't know.
I can't comment on that.
But I think what you're seeing in the robust quarter is a combination of things but one of the major factors is the effect of that van network being more robust being more productive and therefore capturing more sales of those technicians and calling on more of them.
Research Division</strong> If you had to give a baseball analogy how much more room you have to go in the productivity initiatives with the van network where would you think you're at? I don't have to give a small analogy though but I don't know.
I think there's quite a bit of runway there but we have said I think our targets our range is 4% to 6%.
We've said that the Tools Group because of the fixed nature of its business will be at the lower end of that with RS&amp;I in the middle and C&amp;I at the top end.
And we don't -- nothing in this quarter tells us that that's wrong.
Okay? We'll take our next question from Jim Lucas with Janney Capital Market.
Research Division</strong> This is Mike Wherley standing in.
You guys mentioned restructuring in Europe in the C&amp;I business and I was just wondering have you resized the SNA Europe to reset up a lower demand level or do you still have belief that those markets are coming back? We believe the markets are coming back.
What you see in the restructuring is simply the effect of RCI rolling through that business so we can do our target with less.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no change to sort of the size of...
No we might.
Jim we might have closed -- we didn't close any big operations or anything like that or rationalize the distribution.
We're just -- I think this is what I would call aggressively RCI-ing the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when we look at RS&amp;I the revenue growth it's still there but it decelerated from like 5% and 10% the last 2 quarters.
And I'm just wondering relative to like that 10% 2 quarters ago how much of that is due to Europe versus just some tougher comps as you came out in the downturn.
Both Jim.
I think that if you're looking at the 10% that's the easier comps.
When you go back and you look at the trend of RS&amp;I I mean the growths were 11% 7% 9% 6% 4% 8%.
so you saw it coming off the easier comps.
And in fact some of those businesses were slower to come back than others.
So you saw that rolling through the business.
Rolling through that sector.
What you saw in the fourth quarter was fundamentally the equipment business being a little bit off the boil.
And I don't -- and a lot of it's in Europe and we're not sure how to interpret that.
I'm not willing to say it's economic-related I just think we do see from time to time lumpiness in the Equipment business.
So the 2.4% in organic and RS&amp;I in the quarter yes it's below what we would normally expect but not I would call what I'd say concerning to us or alarming.
Research Division</strong> But would you say it's more from the weakness in Europe than tougher comps? Yes I'd say so.
I'd say so.
Yes I'd say that.
I'd say that.
Research Division</strong> And then just the last question I had on the Financial Services portfolio...
So let me clarify that for a minute if I could.
The one thing the one clarification that as I said I think in the last point is that Europe Equipment business had in itself a noneconomic tougher comp because it has every other year's show cycles and so therefore there's some of that flowing through this business.
So all things being equal we would have not expected as robust the fourth quarter out of RS&amp;I because of this.
Now I'm not saying that accounts for all of this but that's a factor.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The last question I had was on Financial Services and you talk about that portfolio being over $1 billion a little bigger than you had thought before -- by the end of next year or -- and I'm just wondering is that more because the Tools Group is doing well or is it because of other credit offerings outside the Tools Group? Mike this is Aldo.
It really reflects a higher pace of growth in the Snap-on Tools Group.
We do like to work closely with the Tools Group it's one of the advantages of having a captive finance company.
So the Snap-on Credit Corporation works intimately with them to design programs that encourage greater levels of participation.
So what I think you see is that we've had a more rapid of ramp-up of originations in the Snap-on Credit Company reflecting really increased financial health and commercial health of the franchisee network and that spills over into their customer base.
And I think that's why you see some increased performance in the Tools Group itself and Snap-on Credit also participates in like fashion.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Richard Hilgert with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> On the RCI Slide -- I'm sorry the C&amp;I Slide...
Do you mean RS&amp;I? Research Division</strong> No C&amp;I.
C&amp;I okay.
Research Division</strong> The gross profit line if I add back the $2.9 million in restructuring costs I'm still coming up with a 37% of sales gross profit margin.
So that leaves us with 140 basis points decline in margin from year-over-year.
So I'm wondering you had mentioned the RCI going through Europe and you've got some restructuring that you're going to do because of it and you're going to be able to do more with less over there.
Does that get us the 140 basis points of margin that we used to have? Or is there pricing pressure over there too? Well let me just speak to that a moment.
First I think it's just -- I think the most -- I guess the most informative way to look at C&amp;I is not necessarily gross margin because what you have flowing through that is you have business mix for example as some of that.
I'm not saying it's the whole effect but I'm saying some of it it gets distorted by the fact that when Asia-Pacific grows Asia-Pacific is by definition a low gross margin business and a low OE business still as profitable from an OI business.
So that tends to reek a little bit of distortion Richard on that gross margin line.
So if you roll over to OI which is still down 140 basis points or something and you say "Okay 90 basis points of that is restructuring " you're still down 50 basis points -- what's wrong what's the problem.
And the problem is Europe you put your finger on it.
And in Europe there are 3 things going on.
One is Southern Europe is down again and you may not have heard this but I've said this on the calls before for us Southern Europe was our highest profitability and margin business.
So there is a mix question as Southern Europe shrinks further for us on a year-over-year comparison basis.
That creates some impact.
Then there is the question of -- they have a cocktail of currencies they source from a number different places on renminbi and the Argentine peso and a number of different places.
And those things turn somewhat favorably so that's some impact.
And then which I think is the more interesting view is we have in Europe what we're calling a stimulus program where we focus on places where we think we could gain with customers by having programs that attached a little bit more effort a little bit more support a little bit more price support.
And those kinds of things impact as well.
It worked for us in the recession in the United States.
We had a stimulus program that targeted places where we thought we could advance our position and that's what we're playing out in Europe.
So those are the 3 factors that have tended to pretty much move that OI margin down.
Now are we going to get back? I think that's the intent over time but I'm not saying that -- I don't think you can say "Look we made these restructuring actions in Europe and that's going to fix the problem " because the problem in Southern Europe is frankly too deep to be fixed by RCI actions.
Our whole structure in Europe is -- our whole view approach to Europe is saying "Look we're watching our customers we're watching our distribution we're seeing our share and we believe this market's coming back.
We think we'll be stronger than before and therefore we're just preparing for that day because we think we can capitalize on that." Research Division</strong> The car market over in Europe is quite a bit different.
The repair business the artisan keeping his tools to do his trade is the same.
But over in Europe you've got about 1/2 of the cars that belong to fleets.
How does that dynamic factor in when we've got a slowing economic environment? I would think that these corporations would be holding onto these vehicles longer and trying to get more use out of them therefore there might be more repair opportunities.
Is that how to look at it? Yes I think that might be true.
I think you'll be entitled to that assumption.
It certainly happened in the United States as people -- as new car volumes go down.
People hold on their cars longer and that drives more repair so that would be one tailwind we would see.
Now remember when we're talking about Europe we're less auto-centric than we are in the United States but that's what still give us a boost because we have our automotive business in Europe.
And the way we structured that wouldn't all come out of C&amp;I.
We've seen some of it in Tools we've seen some of -- that phenomena you're talking about we've seen some of it in Tools we've seen some of it in RS&amp;I and so on but it would be a clear tailwind for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
Last area I wanted to touch on was again this objective of achieving $1 billion plus on the balance sheet for Financial Services.
As time goes by and we see economic improvement over here in the U.S.
and new car sales start to improve on the one hand we might have a decline in the aftermarket in the sense that people aren't keeping the used car as much.
They're getting more new.
But on the other hand as that economic conditions improve there might be more creation of additional repair shops which would need tooling to get up and running.
Is that part of where the increase in the funding or the receivables comes from is an assumption that we'll see an increase in franchisees and because there's an increase in the number of shops coming as the economy improves? Again Richard Aldo.
I'll answer that as best I can.
I think the growth in the portfolio as envisioned is mostly on the extended credit portfolio side which is the bread and butter of what we do.
It makes up 81% of what we do today.
And I think the lion share of the growth beyond where we're at right now the additional $125 million I think we see on the slide that $95 million or so come -- or 77% of those still come from extended credit.
So again that's catering to the mechanic as an end customer via the franchise network.
What you hinted at there will be some of it that's called -- what we call the leasing when shop owners -- it's a small piece of what we do it makes them about 4% to 5% of the Snap-on Credit portfolio today as leasing activity.
When the shop owners sometimes needs financing they will sometimes consider Snap-on credit as a source.
But that's a little bit of a different credit profile different bit of a mix and therefore they have other alternatives available for them they have -- can have local banks that might be available for them as a source of funds as well as Snap-on Credit as well as other leasing companies.
So to answer your question if shops expand that does create an opportunity for Snap-on credit to grow but the lion share of the growth that we're talking about is just the increased participation of our activity with mechanics as end customers.
But I think you're -- I just want to add to that.
I think you're right about an underlying sort of macro in there.
And that generally in markets we have seen one of the great things about being in critical industries in automotive repair is critical tasks.
And automotive repair is one of those is they tend to move upwards as the world facilitized.
For example you mentioned new cars and so on but new cars the new car market in the United States has been up or down.
It's $9 million $10 million I think $17 million.
And despite that cars have gotten older every year since 1980.
So the idea of the repair and demand keeps going upward and I think that is just an underlying trend that says "Okay there are going to be more shops." There's going to be more demand for repair and in fact when you look at the statistics about the average household spend on automotive repair it's going up.
It went up again last quarter and it's been going up pretty much regularly every quarter for a long time.
So you're correct at putting your finger on one of the great driving points behind these macro driving points behind this businesses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just as a follow-on to that what's the anticipated growth rate in the number of franchisees for the coming couple of years? I think -- I don't think we're going to see it move up that much.
We have 3 400 -- depends on the geography in the United States we have 3 467 now that moved a couple in the past few years.
You might see some increase but our play -- I think the play about numbers of franchisees is not there.
What will happen we believe is efficiency.
One franchisees the individuals will reach more customers they call on 800 000 now there are 1.3 million in the United States.
They can call on more.
It's a productivity issue.
It's what I said before.
Two we have turnover and it's an all-time low but it's still about 8% a year.
So you do the math and you figure out how many turnover a couple -- 300 a year.
And our ability to fill them quickly has to do with our ability to serve the market.
So we get better every quarter at filling those things and that adds capacity even within the same number of shares.
So the effect for the Tools Group is more around productivity for the vans themselves that's the growth place.
And our productivity internally where we could be more efficient and popping somebody in when they're ready to retire.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Gary Prestopino with Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions here.
Hey Aldo in terms of the overhead expenses related to Snap-on Credit is that still running at about $25 million to $30 million? I think as a ratio Gary the best I can determine let's say you're in the 6% range if you look at what percent of revenues that they tend to generate you'll see good drop through.
The biggest expense that flexes as you grow the portfolio is really the provision for bad debt.
As you grow the portfolio you have to have -- anticipate bad debt expense that goes along with that.
To me that's the biggest variable expense.
Of course there's underlying structural additions you look at.
And we always look ahead to will it be increased costs of compliance.
So there's some variables out there on the horizon and we don't really give guidance around it.
But it's a pretty scalable organization but you don't have to have lots of incremental [ph] costs to grow.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is that 6% of Financial Services revenue 6% of the total loans out there? I'm looking at 6% if you look at the top line more or less if you look at where you're at.
The financial expenses run in the order of about $50 million $51 million I believe they were on a full year basis this year.
So that's about -- that'll grow a little bit going forward.
The biggest variable expense is really a provision for bad debt expense.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fine.
And then Nick you kind of mentioned in your talk that throughout the quarter you started Q4 obviously Europe continues to weaken and we know the problems in the South and -- but can you maybe comment on what you're seeing so far in the quarter? Is there any changes there? I mean has it gotten worse in terms of both the North and South? I hate to comment on the South of Europe because I seem to be -- I remember I was on one of these calls one time and I think I said I thought it bottomed out and that turned out to be misinformed.
So that was a long time ago.
But we're not -- we don't give guidance but I can say I don't think we're seeing any sea change what -- we're seeing kind of the same stuff that we saw.
And the interesting thing about Europe is if you look at it it's kind of the same characteristics that we saw before it's just that it generally weakened.
The South is worse and then for us the North was better and the Middle was kind of middling and that kind of thing but we're not seeing any I would say any implosion or something like that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It's just I asked those questions because it's in the headlines constantly and you'd think it's falling off a cliff.
Okay.
And then one thing you did mention in terms of especially in the RS&amp;I or Repair and Infosystems you talked about the products you sell generally offer productivity improvements.
Have you ever mentioned like what kind of return what productivity return a shop gets from some of these products that you're putting through there? We haven't mentioned it.
We haven't mentioned it.
It becomes so specific as I think being difficult.
You kind of have to look at a particular shop and a particular product.
I mean some of them are things like let's take in an aligner for example.
It's hard to measure the idea that -- what the productivity return will be if I can have the aligner run by anybody in the shop as opposed to a specific aligner tech.
And that's the kind of thing that happens.
And also though it happens faster and so on.
So we have a number of those things but they're very specific to the shop condition because as an example I just pointed out if you have an aligner tech a specific aligner tech and some shop have had them and you bring in the aligner was one of our new aligners and anybody can do it while you can in fact redeploy that aligner tech and you get great productivity.
But if you're a shop that didn't use aligner techs and kind of muddle along without them then it isn't quite as much a productivity improvement or as dramatic a productivity improvement.
So it really depends on the particular situation.
Now if you wanted to go to a garage and look at them we could probably take you through the elements of that in the specific situation.
I think that would be more effective.
We'll take a follow-up question from David Leiker's line.
Research Division</strong> All my questions have been answered.
And seeing no further question in our queue at this time I'll turn the conference back over to Leslie Kratcoski for any additional or closing remarks.
Great.
Thanks Yolanda and thanks everyone for joining us today.
As always a replay of the call will be available on snapon.com later today.
We appreciate your participation this morning and your interest in Snap-on.
Good day.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all once again for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Snap-on Inc.
2012 First Quarter Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Leslie Kratcoski.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thanks Melissa and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to review Snap-on's first quarter 2012 results which are detailed in our press release issued earlier this morning.
We have on the call today Nick Pinchuk Snap-on's Chief Executive Officer; and Aldo Pagliari Snap-on's Chief Financial Officer.
Nick will kick-off our call this morning with his perspective on our performance.
Aldo will then provide a more detailed review of our financial results.
After Nick provides some closing thoughts we'll take your questions.
As usual we have provided slides to supplement our discussions.
You can find a copy of these slides on our website next to the audio icon for this call.
These slides will be archived on our website along with the transcript of today's call.
Any statements made during this call relative to management's expectations estimates or beliefs or otherwise state management's or the company's outlook plans or projections are forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those made in such statements.
Additional information and the factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are contained in our SEC filings.
With that said I'd now like to turn the call over to Nick Pinchuk.
Nick? Thanks Leslie.
Good morning everybody.
I'll start off as usual with the highlights of the quarter and with my perspective on the results and on the overall business.
Then I'll turn the call over to Aldo for a detailed review of the financials.
Our first quarter was another period of encouraging progress.
Once again it showed that the Snap-on Value Creation Processes are enabling improvements just as they been doing for some time in a variety of macroeconomic environments.
I think you could say that these past few years sure have been marked by a very dynamic environment.
And yet our discipline around safety quality customer connection innovation and Rapid Continuous Improvement or RCI has driven momentum in good times and in bad.
Speaking of momentum our first quarter reflects continuing gains in the majority of our markets and it represents another period of favorable operating margin comparisons.
Organic sales increased 7% from last year.
The OpCo operating margin of 13.3% was up 70 basis points while FinCo contributed $23.9 million of operating income a substantial increase from $12.5 million a year ago.
The end result is an EPS of $1.21 a rise of 26% from the first quarter of 2011.
Now the primary feature in the past quarter was the volume.
Widespread strong gains across the majority of our business and the Tools Group serving automotive technicians and the Commercial &amp; Industrial group or C&amp;I serving emerging markets of Asia as well as professionals in critical industries through our industrial division.
And in diagnostics and software sales through our Repair Systems &amp; Information group or RS&amp;I which focuses on serving repair shop owners and managers.
All of those areas had solid gains.
If you recall that we identified 4 key strategic runways for our growth areas that we believe will be decisive for our future building in emerging markets extending into critical industries enhancing our franchise network and expanding in the garage.
We believe this quarter's performance represent ample evidence of significant progress in each of these areas.
Importantly I think our overall 7% volume gain and improved profitability was achieved even in the face of a turbulent Europe a headwind that strengthened since the last quarter.
Just like in the past quarters our overall environment is favorable but Europe is a clear challenge.
Our volumes in Western Europe and Western European markets were down mid-single digits.
You can see that impact most notably in the results of C&amp;I but it's also evident in the volumes of RS&amp;I where we have a sizable European presence in our undercar equipment business.
The real story in the quarter though is that we were once again able to overcome the challenges and still grow robustly.
So overall we continued our progress gaining in those areas we've identified as being decisive for our growth.
Now on to the highlights of some of the segments.
C&amp;I group organic sales were up 6.4%.
So in spite of Europe our overall C&amp;I sales gain was actually more than we posted in the previous 3 quarters.
I mentioned the strong gains in both Asia and our industrial business 2 of those strategic runways for growth while both of those businesses were up double digits.
Related to Europe I'll remind you that we have particularly large and higher-margin position in the South especially in Spain.
And that regions been even harder hit than the rest of the continent so that certainly amplifies the European impact for the group.
Operating margins in C&amp;I was 10.2% compared to 11.6% last year.
Now in those numbers we did incur $3.5 million and restructuring charges related to Europe.
Given the situation we're making adjustments to the cost structure to better match the environment.
These actions brought C&amp;I margin down by 120 basis points.
In our industrial business where we serve serious professionals in critical industries we're pursuing a number of initiatives to drive continued growth.
For example we're expanding our presence in technical schools a growing number of which offer Snap-on's certification programs for industries such as aviation vehicle repair and wind industry.
And covering a range of specialties like torque and diesel and diagnostics and tool control.
Those programs are -- we found are a great way to get the Snap-on brand introduced to the new professionals who will inhabit the critical industries of are our future.
The schools are equipped with our products.
We train the teachers and the students learn their profession with Snap-on products front and center.
We believe that's a great way to build what we call customers for life and it's working.
Our efforts in extending in the critical industries can be seen in our annual industrial sales kick off hundreds of direct sales associates join that event and instead of focusing on products we focused on serving specific customers: Aerospace natural resources the military.
The main theme was customer connection how to make work easier for particular professionals and specific industries and the participants left better equipped to drive our sales growth down that critical run -- down those crucial runways and that's been working.
Now I'll mention emerging markets.
The bulk of that activity for Snap-on also shows in the C&amp;I group.
Sales in Asia were encouraging with double-digit growth coming across many of our major markets.
Now China of course is our biggest opportunity and we grew well ahead of GDP.
But we saw an even greater increase in places like Indonesia and India.
And that growth is being aided by our expanding product lines and hand tools from our Zhoushan factory and undercar equipment hand held diagnostics and band saws all from our Kunshan complex where we've been expanding our capacity and launching new products aimed specifically at Asian customers and that's working.
Outside of Asia we're also making progress in other emerging markets.
Our expansion in Belarus has been a key to gaining presence in Eastern Europe.
That operation has been critical to growing our position in both in Eastern Europe where SNA Europe actually saw solid gains in places like Russia and Turkey as well as in the U.S.
In fact our Bahco band saw line continues to be robust selling well in most regions of the world.
One final comment I'll make on C&amp;I is related to innovation.
SNA Europe and specifically the Bahco brand has long been known for its innovation and quality in serving professionals.
In fact Bahco recently celebrated 125 years of prominence in the professional segment.
That reputation was once again reinforced this past quarter when Bahco earned 2 prestigious 2012 Red Dot Design awards.
The winning new products were entries in our ergo line a line that differentiates itself by clear advancement in professional grade ergonomics.
Those awards generate product excitement and exposure and our strong endorsement of our brand and of our continuing innovation and of the progress we're making in spite of the challenges that are present all around Europe.
Moving to the Tools Group another strong performance.
A sales increase of over 12%.
It represents another highlight of the quarter.
The operating margin of 14.6% was up from 13.2% a year ago.
Now last year's comparison did include nearly $3 million in restructuring charges but even excluding that effect there was a 50 basis point increase and this quarter's absolute margin of 14.6% certainly exceeds most of the historical comparisons.
You might remember we made it a priority to enhance and strengthen our franchise channel even while we're in the midst of a recession.
And more recently we were aiming Rapid Continuous Improvement or RCI efforts toward increased efficiency creating more selling time for our franchisees.
Now the results of all those efforts appear clear.
Organic sales in the first quarter were more than 15% above our prerecession levels.
Speaking of the franchisees overall the network is strong.
And it's evident in the trends we track.
Franchisee sales and profits continue to rise credit delinquencies remain at historically low rates and our turnovers are down.
To look beyond the franchisees we see solid indicators on the health of our end customers the repair technicians activity with big-ticket items like hand held diagnostics and tool storage remain at the solid levels as you would expect given the growth rates we've been recording for several quarters now.
And the strength the core of our franchise network the Snap-on brand is now being recognized even more broadly.
The results from this year's franchise business review satisfaction survey were announced in February.
Snap-on moved up 8 spots from last year to #23 among all large franchise systems.
The importance of this ranking is that it's based on the opinions of our franchisees themselves on issues like training and support and operation and financial opportunity.
And in February Snap-on was also cited by Forbes magazine in its ranking of best franchisees to start for the buck and that article Snap-on was rated #1 of all franchisees.
More confirmation of the growing strength of our system.
The results are also reinforced what we hear regularly when we speak to our franchisees face-to-face.
I characterized their outlook as almost uniformly quite positive both for the company in general and for their individual businesses in particular.
Now we're for Snap-on credit.
I said it in the past it's -- but I think it's worth repeating.
Our wholly-owned finance company has been a real advantage.
Just this week there's been news relating to the difficulties of securing financing for small businesses in general and for franchises specifically.
While our franchisees clearly benefit from their ability to access valuable financing for themselves and for their customers the credit company is a strategic advantage for Snap-on and as you can see evidenced in the first quarter results it's financially attractive.
Now let's move to the RS&amp;I group where we serve repair shop owners and managers with diagnostics repair and shock management information and undercar equipment.
The overall organic growth gained for the group -- the overall organic sales gain for the group was a modest 1%.
Similar to the C&amp;I group though some fairly strong sales performances were muted by the impact of European weakness.
Our large undercar equipment business on that continent was down in the quarter.
Outside of the Europe impact the gains across the operations in the group were up mid-single digits.
The operating margin for RS&amp;I was 21.5% up from 18.9% last year and the highest we seen in the group.
It reflects progress in our RCI initiatives as well as favorable effects of solid growth in higher-margin categories of diagnostics and information products.
We are worried about those high-margin products.
Our hand held diagnostics software sales reached an all-time quarterly high driven by our new release.
This update includes expanded vehicle coverage along with the new functional tests and reprogramming features and the numbers show it was well-received.
Our diagnostics business also received recognition for innovation when the readers of Undercar Digest voted 2 of our hand held diagnostic units: The SOLUS Ultra and the VERDICT as 2012 top 10 tools.
This marked the second year in a row that Snap-on has had the only diagnostic units included in that publications award roster.
That recognition not only is a testimony to our position as leader in the space but inclusion of diagnostic units in the top 10 also provides significant evidence of the increasing importance of a handheld unit in undercar work and repairing breaks wheels and chassis.
With our strong position in that segment this is a favorable trend for Snap-on.
We also saw strong sales gains driven by product innovation in our repair and shop management information business Mitchell 1.
Mitchell 1 is our repair shop management information business in the RS&amp;I group.
We're seeing the benefits in that area from the investments we made over the past several years.
We strengthened our offering for repair shop owners and managers with automotive-related products with new heavy-duty truck applications and with new features like our customer retention programs that assist shop owners to better market to old and new customers.
The high single-digit growth that Mitchell 1 during the quarter is evidence of that expanded credit.
Our repair information position will take another step forward this month when Mitchell 1 launches our new pro demand software.
It enhances technician productivity by improving the speed and accuracy of search capabilities as well as the navigation to other online information like wiring diagrams technical service bulletins and schedule maintenance data.
With ProDemand we're basically expanding the vocabulary of the system harmonizing terminology across OEM badges making it better able -- making the system better able to decipher what the technician needs and taking him to the solution faster.
We've been trying the product with a broad base of technicians and the initial reaction has been very positive.
One more highlight related to RS&amp;I.
I already mentioned that our equipment business in Europe is fairly large and the impact is evident in the overall growth rate for RS&amp;I.
We are however making great progress in emerging markets like Brazil and the Middle East with the equipment business where saw solid double-digit gains of undercar equipment.
We launched a number of new products for those markets over the past several years and we're seeing them pay off.
While that's the highlights.
OpCo operating margin expansion and FinCo continuing on-track with increased profits a 7% organic growth significant progress along our strategic runways even in the face of a difficult environment in Europe.
Now I'll turn the call over to Aldo for a financial review.
Aldo? Thanks Nick.
Our consolidated operating results are summarized on Slide 6.
Net sales in the first quarter of $735.2 million increased $41.5 million or 6% year-over-year.
Excluding foreign currency translation organic sales increased 7% led by double-digit growth in Snap-on tools and across the majority of our businesses serving customers in emerging markets in critical industries.
Consolidated gross profit of $347.7 million in the quarter increased $17.1 million from 2011 levels.
As a percentage of sales gross margin of 47.3% was down slightly from 47.7% last year primarily due to continued margin pressure in our European-based hand tools business partially offset by contributions from RCI initiatives and $2.1 million at lower restructuring costs.
Operating expenses in the quarter of $250.2 million were up $6.9 million from 2011 levels.
As a percentage of sales operating expenses of 34% in the quarter improved 110 basis points from 35.1% last year largely due to benefits from sales volume leverage in savings from RCI and restructuring initiatives.
These improvements were partially offset by a higher stock-based mark-to-market and performance-based incentive compensation expense and $3.1 million of higher restructuring cost.
Operating earnings before Financial Services of $97.5 million in the quarter increased $10.2 million or 11.7% from 2011 levels.
And as a percentage of sales improved 70 basis points to 13.3%.
Operating earnings from Financial Services of $23.9 million in the quarter increased $11.4 million from 2011 levels reflecting the continued growth of our on-book finance portfolio.
Consolidated operating earnings of $121.4 million in the quarter increased 21.6% and as a percentage of revenues improve 180 basis points to 15.7% from 13.9% a year ago.
Finally net earnings of $71 million or $1.21 per diluted share in the quarter increased $14.8 million or 26.3% from last year's levels.
Now let's turn to our segment results.
Starting with the Commercial &amp; Industrial or C&amp;I group on Slide 7 sales of $286.5 million for the first quarter were up 6.4% organically from 2011 levels primarily as a result of double digit sales increases across the majority of our businesses serving customers in emerging markets and critical industries.
These increases were partially offset by a mid-single digit sales decline in our European-based hand tools business particularly as a result of further weakness in Southern Europe.
Gross profit of $102 million in the quarter decreased $1.6 million from 2011 levels primarily due to continued margin pressure in our European-based hand tools business partially offset by savings from RCI initiatives.
As a result gross margin of 35.6% in the quarter compared with 38% last year.
Operating expenses of $72.8 million in the quarter were up slightly from 2011 levels.
As a percentage of sales operating expenses of 25.4% improved 100 basis points from 2011 primarily due to benefits from sales volume leverage partially offset by $3.4 million of higher restructuring cost primarily to improve the segment's cost structure in Europe.
As a result of these factors first quarter operating earnings of $29.2 million for the C&amp;I segment declined $2.4 million or 7.6% from 2011 levels.
As a percentage of sales operating margin of 10.2% compared with 11.6% last year.
Turning now to Slide 8.
First quarter sales in the Snap-on Tools group of $316.6 million improved $34.6 million or 12.3% largely due to continued higher sales in the United States.
Gross profit of $139 million increased $14.1 million from 2011 levels and as a percentage of sales was 43.9% compared to 44.3% last year.
Gross margin last year benefited from favorable manufacturing utilization associated with the anticipated consolidation of the company's North American tools storage operations.
Operating expenses of $92.9 million in the quarter increased $5.1 million from 2011 levels.
As a percentage of sales operating expenses of 29.3% improved 180 basis points primarily due to benefits from sales volume leverage.
First quarter operating earnings of $46.1 million for the Snap-on Tools Group increased $9 million or 24.3% year-over-year.
As a percentage of sales operating earnings of 14.6% compared with 13.2% a year ago.
Restructuring costs in the quarter were $2.6 million lower than last year.
Excluding the effect of restructuring expense in both periods operating income margin improved 50 basis points year-over-year.
Turning now to the Repair Systems &amp; Information or RS&amp;I group shown on Slide 9.
First quarter sales of $226.1 million increased 1% organically.
As of mid-single digit sales gain of diagnostics and Mitchell 1 repair information products primarily the independent repair shop owners and managers and a low single digit sales gain to OEM dealerships were partially offset by the lower sales of undercar equipment in Europe that Nick discussed in his remarks.
Gross profit of $106.7 million in the quarter increased $4.6 million from prior year levels.
Gross margin of 47.2% in the quarter improved 220 basis points from 45% last year primarily due to a more favorable sales mix reflecting higher sales of diagnostics and repair information products including the SOLUS Ultra mentioned earlier.
Gross profit also benefited from savings associated with ongoing RCI initiatives.
Operating expenses of $58.1 million in the quarter decreased $1.2 million from 2011 levels.
As a percentage of sales operating expenses of 25.7% improved 40 basis points from 26.1% last year principally due to savings from RCI initiatives and benefits from sales volume leverage.
Operating earnings of $48.6 million for the RS&amp;I group increased $5.8 million or 13.6% and as a percentage of sales improved 260 basis points to 21.5%.
Now turning to Slide 10.
First quarter earnings from Financial Services of $23.9 million increased $11.4 million from prior year levels primarily due to a continued growth in our on-book finance portfolio.
Originations of $156.3 million in the quarter rose 7.3% reflecting both higher sales in our Snap-on Tools segment and increased participation in our credit programs.
Moving to Slide 11.
As the first quarter end our balance sheet includes $968 million of gross financing receivables including $813 million from our U.S.
Snap-on Credit operation and $155 million from our international finance subsidiaries.
In the United States $660 million or 81% of the financing portfolio relates to extended credit loans to technicians.
Since 2011 year end our on-book financing portfolio has grown approximately $33 million.
The pace of the portfolio's growth has continued as expected and is naturally decelerating as the transition of the CIT owned portfolio nears completion.
In 2012 we continue to anticipate that the gross on-book portfolio will increase by approximately $125 million over 2011 year-end levels.
Regarding finance portfolio losses and delinquency trends these continue to be in line with our expectations.
Now turning to Slide 12.
Consolidated operating cash flow for the quarter was $65 million.
This includes the decrease in accruals and other liabilities comprised primarily of incentive compensation-related payments made during the quarter and the effect of a $25 million cash contribution to our U.S.
pension plans which included an $18.3 million required 2012 contribution and a $6.7 million discretionary contribution.
In 2012 we also intend to make required contributions of $12.6 million to our foreign pension plans and depending on market and other conditions may make additional discretionary cash contributions to our U.S.
plans.
As expected free cash flow from Financial Services was a negative $35.1 million in the quarter reflecting the continued funding of new loan originations at Snap-on Credit.
The operating company generated positive free cash flow of $48.9 million in the quarter representing a $46 million increase over the prior year.
Capital expenditures of $21.8 million in the quarter included continued investments particularly in the United States and new product efficiency safety and cost-reduction initiatives as well as investments in new production and machine tooling.
Capital expenditures also included continued spending to support our strategic growth initiatives including the expansion of manufacturing capabilities in emerging growth markets.
As seen on Slide 13 day sales outstanding for trade receivables of 58 days was unchanged from 2011 year-end levels.
Inventories increased $9.4 million from 2011 year-end levels excluding currency translation inventories increased $4.1 million primarily to support higher customer demand in the U.S.
On a trailing 12-month basis inventory trends of 4x compared to 4.2x at 2011 year end.
Our quarter end cash position of $162 million decreased $24 million from 2011 year-end levels primarily due to the funding of new loan originations by Snap-on Credit the previously discussed U.S.
pension contribution share repurchases of $29.9 million and dividend payments of $20.1 million.
These uses of cash were partially offset by cash generated from operations.
Our net debt-to-cap ratio of 33.8% compares to 34.3% at 2011 year end.
In addition to our $162 million of cash and expected cash flow from operations we have more than $700 million in available credit facilities and our current short-term credit ratings allow us to access the commercial paper market should we choose to do so.
As of first quarter year end our first quarter end no amounts were outstanding under any of these facilities.
This concludes my remarks on our first quarter performance.
Now I will briefly comment on a few outlook items.
We continue to anticipate that capital expenditures in 2012 will be in the range of $60 million to $70 million.
Restructuring expenses in the second quarter of 2012 are expected to approximate $8 million including the settlement of a pension plan related to the 2011 closure of the company's Newmarket Canada facility.
Finally we also anticipated that our full year 2012 effective income tax rate will approximate 33.5%.
I'll now turn the call back over to Nick for his closing thoughts.
Nick? Thanks Aldo.
Well that's our quarter.
An encouraging period strong volume growth continuing credit company ramp up and more progress in driving increased profitability and all of that was achieved in the face of European headwinds.
We believe the quarter's performance represents clear confirmation that our decisive runways for growth are wide and that we are advancing forward.
The van network is being enhanced.
Sales were up more than 12% and franchisee health metrics are the best we've seen.
We are extending to critical industries.
Our industrial division grew by double digits again.
We are expanding with repair shops owners and managers.
Our Diagnostics and Mitchell businesses grew nicely and we are building an emerging market strong double digit again in places like China India Indonesia and Russia.
The progress along each of these runways made our quarter and overcame imperfect economies.
Going forward we believe we're well-positioned.
We have momentum.
And we will take advantage full advantage of the abundant opportunities that stretch out before us.
Before I close again this quarter I think it's appropriate that I recognize the essential role of our franchisees -- that our franchisees and associates have played in our performance.
I know many of you are listening and I also know that this quarter's result is a direct result is a direct reflection of your contribution.
For your energy for your support and for your commitment to this team you have my thanks and you have my congratulations.
Now I'll turn it over to the operator for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> This is Joe on the line for David.
I think the most obvious surprise and it's a great quarter with the Tools Group growing 12%.
Several straight quarters now that group has been putting up double-digit results.
I'm just wondering if you can point to anything specific that might be driving that because it's obviously well in advance of what some of your public peers are reporting for growth in their businesses.
Well I think there's a couple of factors.
One is that as I've said we kept investing during the downturn.
We said that.
We invested in the health of our franchisees and they didn't take a step back during the downturn.
They in fact got better and stronger.
And I think coming out of that we came out of the downturn with relative to others a strong strong network.
That's one.
Two we've been investing in innovation.
If you've ever been here you see the innovation works and you see the products were rolling out so they have attractive products.
And then finally as I said in my remarks we've been spending time working on RCI in terms of Rapid Continuous Improvement and expanding the selling time.
Only a -- not all of their day is spent on selling.
And so this is a productivity opportunity for us and we're working on that.
I've said many times on the call I think our call and then analyst meetings one-on-one that fully enabled our advance call on maybe 800 000 technicians or 850 000 technicians and there are 1.3 million technicians in the United States.
This is a product -- and they don't call on them because they're less target rich.
This is a productivity opportunity.
What you're seeing here is in effect that given our people more time to sell more productivity advancements and therefore able to call on broader range of customers.
And so you see those 3 effects: New products stronger health and better productivity.
And that's what's generating these double-digit gains.
Research Division</strong> So with the van count pretty much stable productivity has helped you increase coverage is there an indication of how much more you can pull that lever to further revenue increases? This is -- you're right.
This is same-store sales.
It's a great -- it's an encouraging look.
I don't want to speculate on that.
I mean I said that the numbers -- but the numbers -- when we had a first couple of quarters like this I said well one quarter a trend does not make.
But now the Tools Group has been putting together some pretty good quarters.
I think their organic growth have been stuff like 9 10 and 6 and 9 and 12 so they've been doing pretty well.
So we think this has got some runway.
Research Division</strong> The new trend is double-digits? But I -- but no I wouldn't say that.
I wouldn't use -- I wouldn't say -- Research Division</strong> Of course yes.
-- it is double-digit of course.
But I think we feel very good about the position the Tools Group is in.
So without making any projection I stick to my projection which says we are looking to grow as a company at 4% to 6% organically right every quarter.
And the Tools Group is a component of that.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then just on the C&amp;I business I think this is the first quarter that the military side of that business is in a headwind and I'm just wondering with the organic growth going from 4.5% 5% and now it's up about 6% would 6% be a more sustainable pace of growth in that business if [indiscernible] Look sure we said that our growth range would be 4% to 6% organically and we said that C&amp;I would be toward the top end of that.
And so this kind of lines right up with that it's a little bit better than that actually.
And you're right in saying that this military was not a headwind this time but this is the critical -- military is part of the critical industry the critical industry's piece of this business.
And so you have -- and that's concentrated in our industrial division.
And if you go back to our last call you'll see this is the second quarter in a row which the industrial business has been registering double-digit growth which we view as confirmation of our assertion that we have runway in these critical industries.
And so we think that the C&amp;I group will be helped by that.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just one last one for me for Aldo.
Can you say what the delinquency rates have been running at with portfolio? Well the delinquency rates are published on Chart 11.
If what you're suggesting is the all-in bad debt rate that we sometimes talked to again it remains a favorable trend with these delinquency rates.
Research Division</strong> So like around 3%? About 3.3%.
Our next question will come from Jim Lucas from Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things here.
You've given a lot of good color not just this quarter but over the past several quarters about the runways and how they continue to widen.
Wanted to just delve a little bit into the Tools Group.
In the past you've talked a little bit about the makeup of bigger ticket items and demand there.
And just curious what you're seeing in terms of the purchasing patterns of your customers if it's more toward the handheld the software upgrades the toolboxes or is it just really just the day-to-day? Actually it's the mix by product.
If you characterize it let's say big ticket tool storage the big boxes and the big size diagnostics and so on all the way down to hand tools and so on that mix hasn't changed for several quarters.
It's been -- we use -- the big ticket have been reasonably strong and robust in those mixes and they haven't really gone down or up within reasonable what I would say quarterly windage.
And so I don't think we -- you'd see any trend inside there whatsoever.
You could -- you see sometimes in the Tools Group as they reach out to other customers you get a different mix within those groups like if you sell more to heavy truck or somebody like that you'll get different diagnostics and different hand tools and so on so you get a different mix within the groups.
But we haven't seen much change with regard to the dimension between big ticket and small tickets.
It's pretty much been the same.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if you -- if we take a step over to the C&amp;I side on critical industries are there any particular industries were you've been more successful? And conversely are there others where you find you're not having as much traction? Just curious as to what is standing out there.
If you look at the quarterly numbers Jim you'll get ups and downs every quarter.
These businesses can be lumpy so you get -- but if you step back and then look at it over the March and say 18 months or so on I would say that we've been pretty strong in aerospace.
We've been very good at that.
I think we've been good in the military when the military has been positive hasn't been so lumpy and we haven't had these sort of political headwinds flowing through the military.
So we've been strong in that critical applications.
And those are the 2 I think that we've been better at.
Natural resources is very good for us at times and so on.
And so I think those have been the improving areas for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And finally on Europe I mean undoubtedly that's going to continue to be a headwind.
You've got some further cost actions that you're going to be taking.
When you take a step back and you look at your competitive position in Europe where you are today what you're doing from a cost structure is it really more just about playing defense until the headwinds subside? Can you just talk a little bit about how you manage through the current environment in Europe? Yes.
First thing I'd say is we're not exactly wringing our hands over it.
You go back and forth when you make comments on these calls and you want to say -- you want to make people aware of the issues in Europe and so on.
But we don't -- we -- this isn't our first recession our first downturn of course.
And so we're managing through this.
And so what we see is our customers are still in place.
We see our productivity and our RCI efforts creating opportunities for restructuring.
We see our Asian factories ramping up to the point they get capability and so on so they can support and provide even more capacity.
So we're being proactive in the idea.
We're bringing together the new capacity expansion we're seeing in Asia and okay looking to support Europe more in that.
We're taking the RCI activities and tailoring the footprint to the current environment reflecting those RCI activities.
So I think those 2 things are happening.
And one -- so I wouldn't call it necessarily plan defense.
I would say more or less saying we believe the market comes back.
We believe our customers in place.
We believe that the Bahco brand is still strong.
And around that we are tailoring the footprint to be as flexible as possible.
So in future ups and downs we're more -- we're less vulnerable to let's say variations in volumes.
And then on top of that we're overlaying the idea that more capacity is coming online in the very flexible and growing capabilities in our Asian markets.
And that will also create the kind of restructuring program around Europe.
One of the things I do want to emphasize around our brand one of the things that's encouraging to us there is that when you look at SNA Europe's primary brand Bahco it's selling pretty well outside any -- when you're not talking about the core Europe when you're talking about the periphery about Turkey and Russia and Middle East and so on this brand is selling pretty well.
So we're convinced there's nothing wrong with the product lines.
It's still very strong and being well received and we get our pricing there.
It's just in those economics that are causing us the current challenges -- those economies that are causing us the current challenges and remember that Spain is one of our as you know is one of our biggest area was one of our biggest areas and the highest margin areas and it's down substantially in the quarter.
And next we'll go to David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
Just on the Snap-on Tools segment.
I guess you realized a 12% organic growth but gross margins were off about 40 basis points.
So I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about sort of what appeared to be disconnect there? And mindful that there was a comp issue here.
In the first quarter '11 you had some manufacturing activities I guess that were influencing them.
Can you quantify that for us? Well I don't think we're going to quantify those but I'll give it to you directionally.
When you look at that you're getting the -- I think we said in the 10-Q or maybe that there was a manufacturing unfavorable comp in terms of manufacturing because last year we're preparing for the consolidation of our tools storage business in the United States and Canada.
So therefore there were some better absorption positions despite the differences in volume in certain of the factories in the first quarter last year.
And then the other piece of this is it depends on where you're talking about.
The other piece of it is if you look in quarter-to-quarter the first quarter is always lower because of -- is always past because of higher spending in the first quarter because of kick-offs and so on.
And then the other factor I think is fair is that as we reach out to different customers and remember I said these are -- these were less target rich customers.
You get a different mix of product lines that sell to those and that can create a product line mix -- within a mix within product lines that will give you some difficulty.
And also I mean and my view is when you look back over time the margins are kind of in line with the range of Tools Group anyway.
But I think that's -- those are the sort of couple of effects this year as the thing we called out in terms of the year-over-year absorption that was very favorable last year.
And secondly the reach to different customers which creates a little bit of different mix in some of our products.
That's what happened in the Tools Group.
The Tools Group.
I know some people are worried about tougher comparisons sometimes as we go forward from time to time.
But -- and it is.
It will get tougher.
It does get tougher.
But this quarter in the U.S.
the U.S.
grew over 15% this quarter.
That's a gang busters quarter.
That's a great quarter.
This business is doing pretty well I think so.
So I'm just trying to understand in your operating margins you get 140 bps of improvement there.
Does that just imply that you had a lot of RCI gains sort of bridging the relatively flat gross margin down to a reasonably good step up on the operating margin? In the Tools Group? Yes.
Just leverage.
Yes you get leverage.
You get leverage in the Tools Group.
Okay.
What's normally the gross margin leverage that we should see absent all sorts of year-over-year comp issues that we're seeing this year but what's the normal? I hate to speculate on -- I hate to say that because it depends on -- I realize you'd like something like that to help modeling but it really depends on the situational situation.
Sometimes you can be selling products which you don't make.
We can be using not everything we sell are of the brands we make.
And so therefore it depends on the mix of products.
So it's very difficult to give you guidance in that regard.
Okay.
If I could just ask one other point.
Just on the Financial Services business.
What's a good number for originations going forward beyond 2012? Growth [indiscernible].
The growth in the Snap-on FinCo portfolio over time get more closely aligned with that of the Tools Group.
So once the runoff of the CIT portfolio and the transition stops to occur originations are more or less fall in line with the Tools Group growth pattern.
You can always have a little bit of timing difference one quarter to the next and it depends on the mix of what is sold in the way of big ticket items because that tends to find its way onto credit contracts more readily than just hand tools.
But over the long-term it will reflect the growth of the Tools Group.
As Nick characterized while we're enjoying double-digit growth these days over the longer run it'll be probably something a little bit less than that.
Aldo should that convergence occur early in '13? I think you'll start to see 2013 become more normalized.
At the end of this year I mean our estimates -- I think we've commented on this before it will be probably about another $25 million or so of CIT-owned extended credit receivables will be managing on their behalf.
So once we get down to that level I think the crossover will become less.
Our next question will come from Alek Gasiel Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just sitting in for Gary.
Most of my questions have been asked.
But I guess one thing.
I know Nick you talked in the past about -- just kind of curious again what percentage of your territory is under penetrated by the van network? And has that changed recently? Actually I don't -- generally it kind of changed over time.
We're not looking to -- I would say the addition of vans is not a major factor in our growth going forward.
So we have probably as many vans -- it's not to say we won't add some but the thing is I don't think that's going to be a major factor in the growth.
The big thing about in terms of vans is how quickly we can replace them.
Of course we -- our turnovers are down.
I believe at least a relatively -- a relative low and I think it might be an all-time low but so -- but when somebody turns in his Van or somebody wants to retire and he sites to retire and he happens to do Northeast Peoria you maybe don't have anybody in Northeast Peoria to go in there.
So how quickly do we fill that? So how quickly do we get them in? How quickly to get somebody up? This is a factor so we track that and we talk about that.
That's something that can do -- that can go better that we could do better.
We've improved so we can do better.
And then secondly I said we call on a group of technicians.
There are some we don't call on because they are less target rich.
They're either off the geographic center of our route or they're in tire shops something like that and as we get more productivity with our vans give them more selling time available they can choose to use this time to call on those people.
That's part of the phenomena we're seeing in this growth.
And so I would offer that the 2 of the runways for growth anyway with regard to the physical to the van have to do with getting a new guy in when another guy leaves retires and then secondly have the people get more selling time so they can reach out reach more customers.
And I guess if you have more selling time you can schmooze the existing customers and sell them more.
So those are the elements of growth.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> How fast is it to get a new guy running up I mean versus in the past? It depends if we have a guy for the territory.
Being as maybe we have trouble -- we might have 4 guys for let's say a garden spot Kenosha Wisconsin.
We might have a lot of people for Kenosha but we happen to live in here in Kenosha.
Our headquarter is in Kenosha so I'd say that.
But we might have a lot of people for Kenosha but we might not have many people for Peoria.
I'm not sure -- it's come down.
I don't actually have the statistics.
If you like to get the statistics we'll get them to you.
If you call Leslie she'll have it for you.
Okay? Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And just one quick.
I might have missed this.
Just with Europe and I know last quarter you talked about how the softness and weakness in Southern Europe is now creeping into more mature area which is evident now.
Just kind of what you're seeing right now in the quarter Q2 at the moment? If you can provide any color.
Yes.
I don't think -- we can't.
I can't speculate on that.
If you read the same paper as I do I think this is being driven economically.
We're not sure.
I think if you look at the GDP growth rates that are projected in Europe a lot of them are flattish.
Some of them are down.
Our European businesses are down substantially deeply in the south mid-single digits in the sort of center and in Eastern Europe we're actually up a little bit.
I think the important thing to think about for our businesses if you look at the European business and our European businesses in each of our groups there's 10% in the Tools Group and some other percentage all the way up to about 1/3 or more of C&amp;I.
If you take those businesses and you isolate them the rest of the business grew at double digits organically.
So if you look at the place where we weren't organically -- we weren't economically afflicted you're growing at what double-digits and Europe represents a kind of challenged 20% to 25%.
We used to say 25%.
It's down now because it shrunk a little bit okay? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And next we have a question from Michael Prober from Clovis.
LP</strong> Could one of you talk about the acquisition environment and how the deal pipeline is? And then I have a follow-up.
Well as I said I think when I've spoken of this we found that -- we say that we will look at acquisitions that will be in any of the 4 critical paths our strategic runways for growth.
I think you could argue that the Tools Group doesn't have so many acquisitions available to it.
But in terms of emerging markets in terms of repair systems and information and with repair shop owners and managers and with critical industries there are businesses which would enhance our business and enhance our position that we could acquire bolt-on and allow us to continue to grow coherently.
There are a number of those.
And I think I've also said that we're still working -- we think we're still -- we're working through and just getting through the largest acquisition in our history which was the credit company.
So the idea that there is a -- we're working through that large acquisition.
We have a pipeline -- I don't know pipeline implies that you're going to go off and do them all.
I don't really mean that but we have a number -- a universe of possible candidates that we have out there in each of those segments and so we keep -- we're looking at those and when the time is right we'll take some actions.
LP</strong> I mean the company really hasn't -- I know that credit card -- excuse me credit division was a big acquisition.
Credit company is a big acquisition but that was really more of a financial integration than an operational integration because you were mostly...
Well that's worth $800 million.
LP</strong> But it soaked up a lot of capital in the balance sheet and now the company is over capitalized by most measures.
And I was just wondering if you're planning on spending capital after you build the balance sheet for the finance company in 2013 '14 on acquisitions? And are there any out there for you because it doesn't really look like there are that many out there? Well I think there are acquisitions.
I mean I -- obviously I don't want to talk about such things on the call but I think a casual review of things available would say that there are acquisitions that would be available.
We may not have -- in fact there has been acquisitions available which we may not have moved at for a variety of reasons.
So I think there clearly are acquisitions.
If you look at the automotive space around repair shops -- repair shop owners and managers there've been a couple of properties passed.
We viewed it and we didn't -- we weren't the acquirer.
And then there are critical industries.
There are a lot of product lines which we could add to our product lines smear the Snap-on patina above it and make positive things.
In emerging markets there are places to acquire.
And at this time we have no further questions in the queue.
And I will turn the call back over to Leslie Kratcoski for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks everyone for joining us today.
A replay of the call is available later today on snap-on.com.
And as always we appreciate your interest in Snap-on.
Thanks.
Goodbye.
And that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Snap-on Inc.
2012 Second Quarter Results Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Leslie Kratcoski Vice President Investor Relations.
Thanks Rica and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to review Snap-on's second quarter 2012 results which are detailed in our press release issued earlier this morning.
We have on the call today Nick Pinchuk Snap-on's Chief Executive Officer; and Aldo Pagliari Snap-on's Chief Financial Officer.
Nick will kick-off our call this morning with his perspective on our performance.
Aldo will then provide a more detailed review of our financial results.
After Nick provides closing thoughts we'll take your questions.
As usual we have provided slides to supplement our discussion.
You can find a copy of these slides on our website next to the audio icon for this call.
These slides will be archived on our website along with the transcript of today's call.
Any statements made during this call relative to management's expectations estimates or beliefs or otherwise state management's or the company's outlook plans or projections are forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those made in such statements.
Additional information and the factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are contained in our SEC filings.
Finally today's discussion and presentation include reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures that exclude an $18 million arbitration settlement gain recorded in the second quarter of last year.
Please refer to our earnings release issued this morning and to the slides accompanying this webcast for a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to those most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
With that said I'd now like to turn the call over to Nick Pinchuk.
Nick? Thanks Leslie.
Good morning everybody.
As we normally do on these calls I'll begin with some of the highlights of our second quarter and I'll provide my perspective on the business and on the various markets in which we operate.
Then I'll turn the call over to Aldo for a detailed review of the financials.
I will say that we were encouraged by the results.
EPS of $1.30 represents a rise of 14% from last year's comparable $1.14.
Organic sales were up 4.5% despite the clear headwinds of Europe.
The OpCo operating margin of 14.2% increased 60 basis points overcoming an $8.3 million in higher restructuring charges.
And Financial Services added $25.6 million in operating earnings up from a comparable $17.5 million in 2011.
I'll remind you that in the second quarter of last year we resolved the dispute with our former Financial Services joint venture partner and recorded at that time a one-time $18 million pretax arbitration settlement gain.
That settlement was worth $0.19 a share.
And given the nature of the item I've excluded it as we believe it's appropriate from the FinCo earnings and the EPS comparisons I just referenced.
On balance though the quarter was another positive point extending an encouraging growth trend.
That continuing trend demonstrates significant progress along our clearly defined runways for growth.
Extending into critical industries building in emerging markets enhancing the franchise network and expanding in vehicle repair shops.
And the operating margin expansion is a reflection of our Snap-on Value Creation Processes at work.
As I said before these are a crucial set of principles that we apply every day.
A focus on safety on quality customer connection Rapid Continuous Improvement or RCI and on innovation.
It's a powerful framework and it is helping to fuel our results.
I mentioned that the OpCo operating margin expanded by 60 basis points from last year but I'll also point out that this year's restructuring charge in the second quarter included $6.8 million for the settlement of a pension plan related to our Canadian tools storage facility which we closed last year.
But for that item the margin expansion would have been 150 basis points.
That increased profitability is a strong testimony that the positive contributions of Snap-on value creation.
Now regarding sales growth.
The numbers appeared to validate that we are building advantage in each of the 4 areas we've identified as being decisive for our future.
Critical industries where the penalty for failure is high.
Another double-digit gain for our industrial division with the growth rate in the aerospace sector leading the way.
Emerging markets.
In addition to strong double-digit gains in China as you probably would expect we also saw a particularly large uplifts in places like Indonesia and Russia.
The franchise channel what we call auto mechanics or auto technicians volume is up 10% in the quarter with strong operating margin.
And finally in vehicle repair shops we saw growth in categories that are quite important to those shop owners and managers.
Sales in the RS&amp;I business that provide diagnostic units repair information and shop management systems were up high single digits.
So we're clearly progressing along each of our runways for growth.
That said Europe remains a major headwind no surprise to anybody I guess.
The macro -- and the macroeconomic environment in Europe -- but the macroeconomic environment in Europe is muting the progress being achieved in other arenas.
As in the first quarter the mature markets in Europe were down from last year but we're somewhat encouraged that despite the general news the comparison hasn't gotten any worse since the last quarter.
Overall Europe remains a mixed story.
The core mature markets are down similar to last quarter and the emerging east especially Russia continues to expand robustly.
It helps to offset the larger declines in the South.
So Europe remains a challenge.
But for us it's been that way for some time and on balance we've been able to navigate the turbulence and register encouraging results overall.
Now let's have some of the highlights for each of the segments.
The C&amp;I group.
The C&amp;I group grew organically by 5.1%.
This is a group of businesses where we have much of our focus on emerging markets and on serving customers in critical industries and there was strong progress in each of those runways.
Our Asian operation and our industrial division the bellwether of our critical industry activity both registered double-digit increases versus last year.
But the C&amp;I group besides being the home of our critical industries and our emerging market efforts is also the home of SNA Europe and the ongoing challenges of that particular geography.
That means the overall C&amp;I growth was achieved while more than offsetting -- that growth was achieved by more than offsetting the turbulence of Europe.
Now the operating margin in the C&amp;I segment was 11.6% up from 10.4% last year.
And this year's results at 11.6% includes $3.2 million in restructuring substantially greater than the $0.5 million we spent last year.
Given that C&amp;I is where we have our largest European footprint the results are encouraging.
The Snap-on Value Creation Processes are driving improvements and our growth runways are yielding results.
In the industrial division the critical industry center we have solid gains in serving natural resource customers.
We also had strong growth in aerospace and aviation.
It was a highlight of the quarter.
So I'll offer some color on that sector.
Aviation certainly fits the definition of a critical industry.
And in that way our automated net area -- our Automated Tool Control unit ATC continues to be an important product that raises -- that has raised Snap-on's profile.
Each quarter this high-tech package which improves productivity along with asset control is showing up on more flightlines.
We're seeing it in more repair maintenance and overhaul operations and in more aircraft mechanic training facilities.
Coupled with our expanding tool offering we're filling those smart boxes with a wide array of Snap-on products and fueling industrial division growth.
Another example of focus on aviation customers is during the quarter we began serving with far greater intensity the airline maintenances -- the largest airline maintenance facility in the United States.
A location that employs over 4 000 technicians.
They wanted Snap-on there full-time and we accommodated.
So focus product and presence.
We're expanding each in the critical industries and it's paying off.
One final note on aviation.
It's an area that's importantly driving international expansion for Snap-on helping to offset some of the European impacts.
In fact our international rise in the industrial division actually outpaced the growth in the U.S.
More and more we're selling expanded toolkits around the globe to airlines to aircraft manufacturers and in support of military F15 and F35 fighter fleets.
Now speaking of international expansion in Asia our new Undercar products designed specifically for customers in that region help drive the double-digit growth of our Asia-Pacific operation.
This high visibility high-value product category is particularly important in emerging markets.
And in both India and China we saw growth rates for our undercar equipment that substantially exceeded our overall growth rates for those countries.
As the repair wave rises in Asia we were particularly well-positioned and aligner sales are a testimony to that effect.
Moving to the Tools Group.
Volumes were up strongly in the second quarter rising 10% above last year's level.
The operating margin of 13.7% compares to 15.5% last year.
Now remember this year's results do include $6.8 million of restructuring charges for the pension settlement related to last year's facilities closure.
Without that charge the margin this year would have been 15.8%.
I believe that these overall numbers speak to the absolute strength of the van channel and to the trends that continue to be positive.
We believe we believe strongly that enhancing the Van network is an important runway for Snap-on.
One way we're doing that is with innovative new marketing campaign generating excitement with mechanic customers.
In the second quarter we launched what we call our Masters of Metal Tour.
It's a traveling caravan that offers -- it offers an outstanding opportunity for new as well as already committed customers to experience firsthand Snap-on's latest innovations and our hottest tool offering.
That customized the mobile showcase celebrates automotive technician as masters of their trade and Snap-on factory associates as masters of their craft.
It features state-of-the-art touch screen technology and it gives attendees the opportunity to see just how Snap-on innovative products are designed and are engineered.
Each tour is also paired with an especially equipped truck that we call the rock 'n roll cab.
It's loaded with a large range of tool storage product that allows those big ticket products big ticket boxes to be presented with a visibility and a variety that's not possible on a typical franchisee van.
When the Snap-on tour comes to town it really is quite an event.
Generally taking on a party like atmosphere.
Oftentimes it coincides with a car show or a fund raiser for a worthy cause and the local franchisees gather their vans right alongside that mobile tour to demonstrate and sell their tools and all this serves to generate significant brand exposure for Snap-on.
It's been one of the drivers behind our robust tools group growth this quarter.
One of the innovative products that -- it's got a number of products on this tour but one of innovative products highlighted on that tour is our new line of quick release ratchets.
They incorporate our unique dual 80 technology along with a locking feature that holds the socket in place when needed and a push button for easy removal.
That's a clear productivity enhancer.
But in the past these types of ratchets were considered to be not as durable as traditional tools.
Well Snap-on engineering has made the new ratchets almost 30% stronger than the competition.
We believe that the best such product on the market and the reception seems to confirm just that.
I've often talk about big-ticket sales in this conference -- in these calls.
Big-ticket items in the Tools Group in particular higher dollar purchases of diagnostics and tool storage units.
These purchases represent a larger commitment and therefore they serve as a barometer of customer's financial well-being as well as their confidence.
While sales of big-ticket units -- items remain at robust levels in fact tools storage sales have been particularly strong as a result of the rock 'n roll cab.
Not only are these cabs traveling with the Masters of Metal Tour we also have a small fleet of them operating singly accompanying individual franchisees to repair shop location calling on technicians with unique mobile showrooms.
I'll tell you when these cabs go into a franchise route they drive tools storage sales and you can see that in the Tools Group second quarter numbers.
So that's some of the highlights of the Tools Group.
Now on to the Repair System &amp; Information or RS&amp;I Group.
This is where we server primarily garage owners and managers and we're expanding Snap-on's presence throughout the vehicle repair shop.
Sales in RS&amp;I were up only slightly 0.2% from last year.
RS&amp;I does have a large undercar equipment business in Europe that was down reflecting the overall macros.
Upside of Europe for both the overall RS&amp;I group and for the undercar equipment business the gains were mid-single digits.
So I think it's fair to say that the group is moving forward but that progress is masked by the European turbulence.
Now operating margin.
Operating margin for RS&amp;I rose strongly to 23% up substantially from 20.9% last year.
That increase was driven by growth high single digits in the higher-margin businesses.
The operations that provide as I said before diagnostics repair information shop management systems to the independent garages all places where Snap-on has great products and strong position.
Speaking of independent shops last quarter I mentioned the launch of our new Mitchell 1 repair information products.
We call it ProDemand.
I'll give you a quick update.
This new software enhances technician productivity.
It offers faster and more accurate searches and improved access to other online data like wiring diagrams and technical service bulletins.
It's been a big hit.
Customer enthusiasm is apparent and we're expanding our position as a result that's one of the reasons why we're seeing these sales up in this area.
Another innovation helping expand Snap-on's presence in the garage is our recently launched alignment audit system.
It uses computerized 3D modeling high resolution cameras armed with an extensive database of vehicle information to provide a quick alignment audit.
It significantly improves shop efficiency and it does generate more shop revenue.
With the new Snap-on system any service technician can perform the audit in approximately 60 seconds and present the customer with a complete color-coded report that helps sell needed service that might otherwise have gone unnoticed.
Early reaction I have to tell you has been very positive.
With shop managers commenting that the unit provides a better return on investment than any other equipment currently available.
The Snap-on alignment audit system joins a list of other new undercar equipment products like our RFV 2000 diagnostic wheel balancer which just won an innovation award at an important trade show in Germany.
Our new selling automatic tire changer our new aligner specifically designed for the Russian market all of those are good strong new products in this segment.
Customer connection and innovation Snap-on Value Creation Processes resulting in attractive new products that are helping us to expand with vehicle shop owners and managers.
Heavy duty diagnostics has been another positive for RS&amp;I.
We made a commitment a few years back to expand in that area and that effort is paying off with good growth rates.
We started expanding in government fleets an attractive opportunity that would not have been possible without the investments.
So all these innovative products from ProDemand information system to the alignment audit have been crucial in offsetting Europe and in driving strong profitability the strong profitability for RS&amp;I.
So those are the highlights as I see them.
Overcoming headwinds to post sales gains expanding operating margins and clear progress along our strategic runways.
The second quarter was an encouraging confirmation that even in turbulent times our strategic initiatives -- even in turbulent time continue to offer growth and our Snap-on value creation continues to drive improvement.
Now I'll turn the call over to Aldo for a review of the financials.
Aldo? Thanks Nick.
Our consolidated operating results are summarized on Slide 6.
Net sales in the second quarter totaled $737.9 million.
Excluding foreign currency translation organic sales increased 4.5% led by double-digit growth in Snap-on tools and across the majority of our businesses serving customers in emerging markets in critical industries.
Consolidated gross profit of $349.9 million in the quarter increased $7.7 million from 2011 levels and gross margin of 47.4% improved 30 basis points from 47.1% last year.
Operating expenses of $245.3 million in the quarter were up $1.9 million from 2011 levels and the operating expense margin improved 30 basis points from 33.5% last year to 33.2% this year.
Restructuring cost in the quarter of $10.2 million were higher by $8.3 million as compared to prior year levels largely due to the inclusion of $6.8 million as anticipated for the settlement of a pension plan following last year's closure of the new market Canada tool storage facility.
Operating earnings before Financial Services of $104.6 million increased $5.8 million year-over-year and improved as a percentage of sales 60 basis points from 13.6% last year to 14.2% this year despite 110 basis points of higher year-over-year restructuring cost.
Operating earnings from Financial Services of $25.6 million in the quarter increased $8.1 million or 46.3% from comparable 2011 levels which exclude last year's $18 million arbitration settlement gain.
Operating earnings of $130.2 million in the quarter increased $13.9 million from comparable prior year levels excluding the settlement gain.
And operating margin improved 130 basis points from 15.4% a year ago to 16.7% this year.
Finally net earnings in the second quarter of $76.4 million or $1.30 per diluted share increased 14.2% from comparable 2011 levels of $66.9 million or $1.14 per share again excluding the settlement gain related to last year's earnings we had $1.33.
Now let's turn to our segment results starting with the Commercial &amp; Industrial Group or C&amp;I group on Slide 7.
Sales of $283.4 million for the quarter were up 5.1% organically from 2011 levels primarily as a result of continued double-digit sales increases across the majority of our businesses serving customers in emerging markets in critical industries.
These increases were partially offset by mid-single-digit sales decline in our European-based hand tools business as a result of further market weakness particularly in Southern Europe.
Gross profit of $104.3 million in the quarter increased $1.9 million from 2011 levels and gross margin of 36.8% improved 20 basis points year-over-year largely due to the savings from ongoing RCI initiatives and favorable foreign currency effects.
These gross margin improvements were partially offset by $2.6 million of higher restructuring cost to improve the segment's cost structure in Europe.
Operating expenses of $71.5 million in the quarter decreased $1.7 million from 2011 levels and the operating expense margin of 25.2% improved 100 basis points year-over-year primarily due to benefits from sales volume leverage.
As a result of these factors second quarter operating earnings of $32.8 million for the C&amp;I segment increased 12.3% from 2011 levels.
Operating margin of 11.6% in the quarter improved 120 basis points from 10.4% last year despite a 90 basis point impact from the higher restructuring cost.
Turning now to Slide 8.
Second quarter sales in the Snap-on Tools Group of $325 million increased to $29.5 million or 10% organically largely due to continued higher sales in the U.S.
Gross profit of $137 million increased $4.6 million from 2011 levels despite $6.2 million of higher year-over-year restructuring cost as anticipated that settled a new market pension plan.
As a result of the expected higher restructuring cost gross margin of 42.2% in the quarter declined 210 basis points from 44.3% last year.
Operating expenses of $92.5 million in the quarter increased $6.3 million from 2011 levels primarily due to higher volume-related and other expenses.
The operating expense margin of 28.5% improved 30 basis points largely due to benefits from sales volume leverage and contributions from ongoing RCI initiatives.
Operating earnings of $44.5 million in the quarter for the Snap-on Tools Group declined $1.7 million from $46.2 million last year as contributions from the higher sales volumes were more than offset by expected higher restructuring cost.
Operating margin of 13.7% in the quarter decreased 180 basis points from 15.5% last year including 190 basis point impact from the higher restructuring cost.
Turning to the Repair Systems &amp; Information or RS&amp;I group shown on Slide 9.
Second quarter sales of $227.4 million increased $0.4 million organically from 2011 levels as a high single-digit sales gain of diagnostics and Mitchell 1 repair information products was partially offset by reduced undercar equipment sales in Europe and a low single-digit decline in sales to OEM dealerships.
Gross profit of $108.6 million in the quarter increased $1.2 million from prior year levels.
Gross margin of 47.8% in the quarter improved 200 basis points from 45.8% last year primarily due to a more favorable sales mix that included higher sales of diagnostics and repair information products.
Gross margin also reflected savings from ongoing RCI initiatives including contributions from design cost reduction.
Operating expenses of $56.4 million in the quarter decreased $2 million from 2011 levels and the operating expense margin improved 10 basis points to 24.8%.
Operating earnings of $52.2 million for the RS&amp;I group increased $3.2 million or 6.5% and operating margin improved 210 basis points to 23%.
Now turning to Slide 10.
Second quarter earnings from Financial Services of $25.6 million increased $8.1 million excluding last year's settlement gain primarily due to continued growth of our on-book finance portfolio.
Originations of $175.6 million in the quarter rose 14.7% reflecting both higher sales in our Snap-on Tools segments and increased participation in our credit programs.
Moving to Slide 11.
As of second quarter end our balance sheet included just over $1 billion of gross financing receivables including $854 million from our U.S.
Snap-on Credit operation and $156 million from our international finance subsidiaries.
In the U.S.
$693 million or 81% of the financing portfolio relates to extended credit loans to technicians.
Since 2011 year end our on-book financing portfolio has grown approximately $75 million.
The pace of the portfolio's growth has continued as expected and is naturally decelerating as the transition of the CIT-owned portfolio nears completion.
In 2012 we continue to anticipate that for the full-year the gross on-book portfolio will increase by approximately $125 million over 2011 year-end levels.
Regarding finance portfolio losses and delinquency trends these continue to be in line with our expectations.
Now turning to Slide 12.
Cash provided by operations of $91.7 million for the quarter includes the effect of $20 million of additional discretionary cash contributions to our U.S.
pension plans.
In 2012 we also intend to make required contributions of $12.6 million to our foreign pension plans and depending on market and other conditions may make additional discretionary cash contributions to our U.S.
plans.
The $91.7 million of cash provided this quarter from operating activities compares with the $13.7 million use of cash in the second quarter of last year which primarily resulted from the return of $89.8 million of cash previously withheld from CIT following last year's arbitration settlement.
Capital expenditures totaled $18 million in the quarter and $40 million year-to-date.
For the full-year we currently anticipate capital expenditures of $70 million to $80 million including the construction of a fourth factory at our Kunshan China location which is expected to be completed by year end.
As seen on Slide 13 days sales outstanding for trade receivables of 56 days improved from 58 days as of 2011 year end.
Inventories increased $15 million from 2011 year-end levels largely to support continued higher demand in the United States.
On a trailing 12-month basis inventory turns of 3.9x compared to 4.2x at 2011 year end.
Our quarter end cash position of $174 million decreased to $12 million from 2011 year-end levels.
Primarily due to the continued funding of new loans originated by Snap-on Credit U.S.
pension contributions of $45 million share repurchases of $38.1 million and dividend payments of $39.6 million.
These year-to-date uses of cash were largely offset by cash generated from operations.
Our net debt to cap ratio of 33.2% compares to 34.3% at 2011 year end.
In addition to our $174 million of cash and expected cash flow from operations we have more than $700 million in available credit facilities and our current short-term credit ratings allow us to access the commercial paper market should we choose to do so.
As of the second quarter end no amounts were outstanding under any of these facilities.
This concludes my remarks on our second quarter performance.
I'll now turn the call back over to Nick for his closing thoughts.
Thanks Aldo.
We are encouraged by the second quarter results.
More than anything else we believe that it confirms Snap-on's abundant runway for improvement and for growth.
It extends our favorable trend achieved despite turbulence in Europe which given our position in Spain has been with us for some time.
The quarter shows we are making strategic progress in the areas that we believe are decisive for our future.
The Van network is stronger.
Sales were up double digits again with the U.S.
leading the way.
We are extending into critical industries also up by double digits in the quarter.
A strong position is being built in emerging markets.
Sales growing substantially above local GDPs and physical capabilities factories product lines distribution all strengthening.
And we do see progress with repair shop owners and managers.
Although overall RS&amp;I is flat the crucial high margin core of diagnostics repair information and shop management systems grew at high single digits bringing RS&amp;I profitability to a high level.
And again this quarter we're seeing Snap-on Value Creation Processes driving progress on our runways for improvement.
OpCo OI percent of 14.2% up 60 basis points despite substantially increased restructuring.
I think everybody knows that these are interesting times and there are challenges.
But we've been facing headwinds like Spain for some time.
We're confident of our capabilities encouraged by our strengthening position focused on our abundant opportunities and believe that we will continue to find advantage despite the turbulence.
Before I close I believe it's appropriate to recognize that Snap-on's results and the encouraging trends reflect the extraordinary effort and our strong commitment and the strong commitment of our associates and our franchisees around the world.
I know many of them listen to this call so for your energy for your dedication and for your support you have my congratulations and you have my thanks.
Now I'll turn the call over to the operator.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And our first question Mike Wherley with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk a little bit about the critical industries.
You mentioned that you signed on with a large airline maintenance facility and I'm wondering are there other potential opportunities like that and do they deliver the same margins that you might get in your other critical industries business? There are different -- there are many more opportunities.
Of course that's the biggest one the United States that's why mentioned it.
But what I meant there was focus product and presence.
And at the base of our extension into critical industries is the fact that in the past Snap-on would sell on an almost default basis to some of those customers.
We were calling on the 4 000 -- we were calling on that site but very sporadically.
We never focused on it as a distinct customer base that we wanted to solve their problems and make their work easier.
And this an example of what we will be doing around the country with other places focus on them call on them as they need provide a product line that fits them.
Now we're doing that there it's just early days we started that in the quarter but there are many other places to do that in -- to do the same thing.
Regarding margins the margins are just as good with that business as they are throughout the corporation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is it something where you have sort of a direct way to sell to those technicians or is it something where the maintenance facility just buys them for the technician? It's a mix.
In this particular in fact I think in this facility it's a mix the facilities buy some and the technicians buy some.
And we sell it through a direct presence that's there virtually every day.
It's kind of a direct sale.
And if you look at the landscape throughout the country or throughout the world you would find a mix of what you just described.
In some facilities the facility buys and provides the tools and in other facilities it’s the technicians themselves.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one other question I had on the...
But let offer in any case that's a classic example of a Snap-on positioning.
It's why it doesn't matter to us so much who buys because the buyer is not -- is usually not a corporate buyer it's a buyer located very close to the point of use.
Even if it's the facility he's up close -- that buyer is up close and personal to the technician themselves so the technician has a great influence on what actually gets purchased.
So that means that our -- the capabilities of the Snap-on products are quite appreciated and weigh heavily in the purchase that's why we get the margins.
Research Division</strong> And will you be extending credit to those technicians? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The other question I have was just on the restructuring that you're doing in Europe to sort of reset those cost levels in the S&amp;A Europe.
Is that complete and when do you expect the benefits to sort of be fully realized? It's not complete.
That's an ongoing basis.
You'll probably be some more restructuring going forward the kind of restructuring you've seen in other quarters if you look back in our history you'll see we're kind of controlled restructurers and we have had restructuring in most quarters.
And you're going to see that in our future much of it directed at S&amp;A Europe so that will happen.
When you see benefits I would say it's hard to say it varies from project to project but a good rule of thumb would be to say 2 year paybacks.
And that will give you some indication of how -- what gets off it from the spending.
David Leiker Robert W.
Baird.
This is John Wein [ph] for David.
Just on the C&amp;I margin this quarter it was up 140 bps on what essentially is flat revenue quarter-over-quarter.
I'm just wondering what exactly is going on there.
Whether it's mix or some of the European restructuring already is starting to take place? Well I think it's -- I don't know what you mean by flat.
I think it's up 5.5% on an organic basis.
Sequentially sorry.
Right.
Are you saying sequential? Yes sorry.
I think 5.5%.
If you're talking about recorded -- reported that has currency inside it.
But on an organic basis it's up -- it is sequentially flat I know.
What you're seeing in C&amp;I is a number of different things.
One is of course the effect of the Snap-on Value Creation Process as we obviously turns a focus on it in the past couple of quarters so you're seeing that flow through in terms of things like RCI Rapid Continuous Improvement.
And then you are seeing some improvements in Europe and the bottom line associated with some of those restructuring coming through.
So you're seeing both of those effects happening.
I don't think you can call it a mix thing.
We're not seeing much mix in C&amp;I.
So that's -- what you're seeing there is pure productivity.
Okay great.
On the -- for a long time you've had kind of a 15% OI margin target for the OpCo.
And essentially you're already there if you make the adjustments.
I'm just wondering when looking ahead and looking the further leverage you can pull is it more on the manufacturing side where we could expect a greater improvement in gross margins? Is it on the operating expenses or SG&amp;A? Just any feel you might have for that.
Well I think it's all of the above there.
I think there are -- I think we've said fairly consistently over the years that we see 2 distinct runways.
One what you're referring to are runways for improvement but Rapid Continuous Improvement driving better efficiency and productivity even at flat sales.
And you'll see that play out both in gross margin and in SG&amp;A and in operating expense.
And then you'll see leverage associated with growth that goes forward because we believe those runways are open to us.
Things like extending the critical industries and expanding in the repair garage and building in emerging markets and the Van network which has been mid-double digits for 3 or 4 quarters now.
So I can see all 3 of those things in play.
A kind of efficiencies around both areas and margins and expenses and the leverage associated with volume.
Now I'll quickly say that the leverage is not as -- leverage isn't always as definable each and every quarter as you might think because sometimes you get more sales and the RCI effect to handle all sales to raise the productivity of your factory doesn't adjust quickly enough and you'll get some inefficiencies at first and as RCI catches up that drops to the bottom line much more effectively.
You get that leverage.
We see that in some of our results particularly the Tools Group this time.
The other thing I'd emphasize pretty carefully as I look out and I see these runways for growth and I see that growth happening and I see the operating margin happening this is over a longer term.
When we look forward to the third quarter for example everybody will probably want to know about the third quarter this is the most uncertain quarter for us every year.
There's a lot of windage in our third quarters.
So we see things like the effects of European vacations and the effects of the Van vacations.
Remember the van drivers are owner-operators usually single person in the business.
So when they take the couple weeks off or a week off for a vacation the Van doesn't roll.
So our third quarter is not a trend quarter.
It's a quarter that has a lot of variation in it.
But when you look out over time we're going to see that -- those 3 things in place leverage and productivity improvements both at the gross margin line and the operating expense line.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
Just wondering given where the euro is and the potential headwind it creates how much of your SG&amp;A is incurred in Europe or denominated in euros? Well I guess I don't know if I have that number exactly.
I can offer this to you that about -- what do we say about 22% of our business is in Europe.
And the euro denomination about 15% of our activity is in the euro currency.
So if that's helpful.
No yes that's helpful.
And then my last one is on the growth in the Tools Group.
You add Mac Tools had high single-digit growth during the quarter.
So you've obviously beat that and I'm guessing if I just did a U.S.
to U.S.
comp your U.S.
tools business grew above the 10% that the overall segment did so I'm just...
Yes it did.
Okay.
So just trying to get a sense of -- from my side what exactly is going on and one of the things just kind of thinking about it having the credit operation internally now have you been able to kind of pull some levers or maybe do some creative promotions now that you're managing that that you weren't able to do when CIT was running it? That might be helping you capture incremental tool buyers? Actually you said a lot of great things there that are accurate.
Let me just say first the tools group has put together 3 or 4 outstanding growth quarters around 9% 10%.
And you have to give credit to the team there.
They are hitting.
In baseball parlance they are pounding the ball.
And so a lot of credit has to be given to that team for this.
And what you're seeing with them are a couple of things.
One is is that we have some great new products like I talked about the ratchet -- the flexible ratchet.
Then we have the marketing efforts like the rock 'n roll cab which is generating to think about it a van is really small and so how many boxes can a van driver carry on his van? So when the mechanic gets on he can only see 2 colors or 2 sizes the rock and roll cabbie can see a whole wall of this stuff and so it generates a sort of the impulse purchase.
And so you're seeing that great marketing effort.
And then our van network has been just getting stronger and stronger when you look at the health metrics of the van the sales were up the equity is up the terminations are down -- just gotten stronger right off the recession because we invested in them.
And finally we've invested in productivity in our vans.
So that our drivers are spending more time selling.
So you've got those 3 things happening you got all 4 things happening that's driving those sales.
And so that's how I explain that the van business and the expansion there.
Dax Vlassis with Gates Capital Management.
Inc.</strong> Nick just curious on the margin side.
If you add back the restructuring charges you're well in excess of a 15% target.
I'm just wondering there was another question about this -- the growth of that and the sustainability of that.
Can you speak to the new benchmark you've sort of set as far as margins in the go forward from here if -- some of that...
Okay.
I'm really happy about the 15.8% in tools and the number without it.
But it's one quarter so I don't know if I'm actually resetting my benchmarks yet.
I've got to think about it.
And I would also say that when you look -- I just want to emphasize when you look forward things happen from quarter-to-quarter we feel pretty good about our trends but this is one quarter and I am confident in our upward trend.
I am confident in the runways for growth and improvement.
But I'm not sure I yet want to reset my target based on one quarter achieving it.
Inc.</strong> But around this level let's say in the first half of this year did you feel that's a sustainable margin sort of basis to look at the business? Sure.
I think so but I want to say that we've been here -- we're just getting to this level.
And when I say something I don't mean every quarter.
Inc.</strong> Of course.
Every quarter.
I'm talking about -- I think it's a great sustainable direction.
I've already said that the third quarter is kind of squirrely and you never predict anything about this.
But I think over trend -- over the trends this is a good base for thinking about our business.
And I've also said to so many I think maybe I said to you when I met with you is that I believe that Snap-on.
And I've been around the block.
This is not my first rodeo.
I've been around the block and Snap-on has a great great franchise in the broadest sense in terms of brand in terms of products in terms of customer reception customer loyalty and if we can't get top level returns then we'd be disappointed.
Inc.</strong> And then my second question is around the cash flow.
It looks like especially given the contributions that the free cash flow cash flow from ops minus CapEx that you generated in the quarter was the highest in 2 years.
It's great to see you generating such strong cash.
Can you talk about your future? It looks like you're stepping up a little bit on the CapEx for the second half of the year.
And can you just talk about your working capital management and whether you expect to sustain this great cash flow? And then on top of that to add on to that question is uses of cash.
Can you talk about the acquisition environment and if there's any areas that you can put a larger amount of shareholder capital to work at good returns? Yes I think talking about moving forward our uses of cash I think I've said in the past are to invest in the business and you've seen us step up CapEx.
I think we raised our target this time because we can see opportunities to invest in particularly in things like capacity and so on we can -- and in emerging markets.
So we can see great opportunities for payback in those things and we're actually getting more capable in spending.
So one of the things that keeps you -- that makes this possible is we're just getting more effective in managing those CapEx expenditures.
Secondly you just talked about it the working capital as you grow you need working capital.
I have cautioned everybody that I don't see working capital as a source of cash going forward.
It will be probably a use of cash going forward because we expect to grow.
And then I see M&amp;A I see acquisitions around the coherency of our businesses around the critical industries around the repair shops serving owners and managers and in emerging markets.
I see acquisitions to make in those areas.
And so those are the places where we'll be spending our money.
Inc.</strong> But have you seen any -- are you closer to doing something than you have been in the past or is it...
I don't think we'd comment on those kinds of things.
But I think we are obviously closer.
We're getting further out of the credit company.
Inc.</strong> My final question is with respect to the earning assets of the FinCo.
Is there any -- I mean I know there's going to be some further growth for the rest of this year given the targets that you sort of set for '12 but it's really not that much in capital investments from here as far as receivables and contract receivables or finance receivables.
What would be the growth rate past '12? Are we getting to the point where you're not going to have to make any more investments and it'll just be pure cash that rolls off from the operating income of that business? This is Aldo.
Just to comment Dax I think if you look past 2012 the growth of Snap-on Credit will be more closely aligned to the growth in the Snap-on Tools Group.
Largely the CIT transition will have been completed by the end of this year.
So whatever the Tools Group grows it won't -- they never match up perfectly quarter-to-quarter but it's a good reflection.
And what that means is that you'll still probably see the portfolio growth be consuming slightly more cash than what you would get if you allocate interest expense and taxes as we do in our cash flow slide to the Financial Services segment.
So there'll still be a user of cash to some extent but not to the extent that it is today.
Let me just add one thing at the end.
I think I mentioned the use of cash and I take it as a given around here and that is dividend.
We have paid a dividend every quarter since 1939 and we have not reduced it.
So that's part of our DNA here.
So that would be another use of cash that I want to make sure that I don't overlook when I discuss it here.
Gary Prestopino Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Going through your narrative you mentioned some countries in Europe that were particularly strong.
And I couldn't all write that down.
Could we go through that? I mean and then some of the weaker ones...
I think I only mentioned Russia pretty much in Europe in the script anyway but you can think of -- really what we're talking about Gary is the periphery the Eastern Europe and we put Turkey in there and things like Belarus and other places.
If you think about -- actually the Maghreb countries would be part of that.
So they would be -- we happen to sell into Northern Africa.
So I kind of think of it as a circle around Europe.
In the middle we're selling some in those areas.
So that's where the business is up.
Why we're encouraged by that is that that seems to us to confirm that the business in Europe is still robust and has a great value proposition as long as the economies are unafflicted people keep buying.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So these are newer countries to you so this would be considered part of your emerging markets initiatives or am I incorrect? Yes.
I think mostly mostly.
Actually not North Africa so much.
We've been in North America for the dog’s age.
But Russia and Belarus and places like that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> What I'm trying to get at -- so in your established countries you said Spain and Italy are bad.
Very bad.
As you went through the quarter ex Spain and Italy in your more established countries did you start to see a slower growth if that's the best word or more...
No what we saw -- those are down.
It is like this.
How I would describe Europe is like this.
The Spain deep reductions.
Spain -- the Southern Europe is deep reduction.
As we've seen the periphery up robustly and the core is mid-single digits down.
That's what we're seeing.
And what we -- I think a one little nuance in this call is -- or this report is we're not seeing decelerate -- we're not seeing acceleration of that downward motion.
It's still down but the comparisons are about the same.
But they haven't gotten worse.
That's sort of the report I would give you as our look on Europe.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So it doesn't feel like it did in 2008? Well yes right.
Well 2008 -- 2008 yes.
It doesn't feel like that.
It doesn't feel like it was in the first quarter.
I think things -- we thought things the fourth and the first quarter of 2011 and the first quarter we saw things getting deeper.
On a year-over-year basis things aren't getting any deeper now.
They're still agony on a year-over-year basis.
But it isn't -- the hole isn't deepening.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just kind of a rhetorical question I mean your sales were up about 1.5% quarter-over-quarter.
Without foreign currency it was about 4%.
And even given that low single-digit sales growth numbers if we extrapolate that going forward do you still feel these RCI initiatives would be enough to expand your margins even with such sluggish sales growth? First I beg to -- if it's possible for me I beg to differ a little bit in your characterization of 4.5% as low.
I have always characterized our growth as 4% to 6% organically.
And 4.5% Is within that range.
And so therefore from my perspective this is just another data point.
I never said we were going to hit 5% every year right in the middle of that in the quarter.
So to me the organic growth is kind of what you expect.
We'll see some bigger than that.
But I like being in the range.
And I believe Snap-on value creation I think I've said this before Snap-on value creation it authors improved profitability at flat sales let alone small growth small growth.
So I think that's a factor of course your margin expansion gets slower then but you still get that -- you still get margin expansion.
Richard Hilgert with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Just a few quick questions here.
With the economy here in the states appearing to slow down a little bit are -- your driver is saying and are you seeing fundamentals in the repair businesses still holding up? I know the revenues were good in the quarter still especially in the Snap-on Tool business but I'm just curious here as you exited the quarter what some of the driver feedback you're getting? Have collections started to be a bit slower and are folks looking to repair their vehicles a little bit less at this point and trying to postpone some repairs? No.
The answer to this is no.
I was just -- about 2 weeks ago I was with 700 customers at the national NHRA championships in Joliet and I didn't get to meet all 700 of course but I got to meet quite a few of them and they were uniformly positive.
And just a couple of days ago I was out on a van riding around the countryside stopping at garages and shops and so on.
And they seemed I would say fairly positive and full of business.
So I don't think that the grassroots level you see much out there in terms of moaning or saying this is -- things are tough or anything like that.
I don't see that.
Now there's the odd person that has a problem depending on what's been happening particularly if it's a franchisee and let's say Ford and General Motors have closed a dealership in his area so he's re-adjusting with other stops we give him.
But generally I'm seeing fairly good positioning.
Now I'll remind you that we view ourselves as recession-resistant not immune.
So what happened the last time is when the recession eventually rose people kept buying -- people kept repairing cars.
The journal was running articles like economy is glum but repair shops hum.
And what happened was our customers kept buying short payback items like wrenches and hand tools but they stopped buying big-ticket items like toolboxes tool storage units and we're still seeing that business robust.
Research Division</strong> How about on the industrial side? I don't think so either.
We're not -- again we operate in criticality.
So generally our customers hold on to our buys a little longer.
And what I mean by operating in the space of criticality is that you're selling to someone who knows that if the machine he's or whatever he's maintenancing or whatever he's supporting has a problem the consequences of failure are high.
Therefore he has a tremendous motivation to try to pay for the repeatability and reliability of a Snap-on level product.
And so that tends to be more resilient.
Now it's not unaffected by recession either but we were up double digits in that business.
And there's a lot of landscaping there.
The military was flat the government was flat the aerospace is up natural resource is up and it's always so.
There's always landscaping but it was pretty good.
Emerging markets.
People ask me about emerging markets all the time but everybody's talking about China slowing down and it maybe so.
But if you think about this repair business in China hasn't even started the repair wave hasn't started.
They sold more in cars in China than any place else in the world last year but all the cars in the road are new versus -- and not many of them 60 million 70 million cars on the road and they're all new versus United States where there are 300 million cars on the road and the average is 11 years old.
So the business hasn't even started in China just rising.
So when we look at our results we're not a good barometer of economy there.
We should be rising anyway because our sector is just rising.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The $21 million currency hit in the quarter in revenue.
You've got operations set up over in Europe.
Do you have your cost pretty much in line with your revenues in terms of currency impact? Actually yes.
The profitability impact was lower than that.
So it's not -- you're looking at that $21 million is give or take -- government work is 3% impact the profitability impact is substantially lower than that.
Looking forward you'll see.
You can -- if the exchange rates stay where they are you could be thinking about 3% again I guess.
And then I think when you start to look at year-over-year the comparisons get a little easier as you get out into other quarters.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
So then in environment where the euro is gaining ground against the dollar we would see more of an increase in revenue but less of an increase in profitability? Yes right.
Right sure.
Sure.
Research Division</strong> On the RCI initiatives what kind of a cost savings run rate would you project coming out of RCI? I mean you've been doing this program for quite a while now? What would you expect in terms of the kind of magnitude of cost savings that you can continue to get from RCI? Well I think that's hard to say but I think you could say $25 million $30 million a year or something like that those kind of numbers.
I don't know.
We try not to put a number on that.
I kind of try to address that when I said the restructuring paybacks was 2 years in Europe.
Research Division</strong> You count restructuring the same as RCI? No not -- no it's not the same.
We have restructuring but we also get RCI.
They're different -- they're distinct things but I guess I was trying to give you some kind of a view of the kinds and numbers we were going to get out restructuring.
But you can look at that number you can go back and look at our productivity numbers you can see the kinds of numbers we've generated on an annual basis on sort of flat sales and I think you could see that going forward.
Normally how I answer this question is that people I think are -- I don't know if this is your concern is that maybe you run out of opportunities.
And I don't think we are.
I think there's a lot of a -- Snap-on.
Mainly because there are a lot of processes in Snap-on.
A hand tool is heavily integrated if you think about it.
You don't buy many components.
You have a piece of steel comes in the back of the hand tool plant the finish products goes out the output front and really pretty much everything that goes into the hand tool is done inside the plant you don't buy anything for it.
So there's a lot of opportunities for RCI and then you have 65 000 SKUs which creates a complex landscape.
So we see a continuous run but I hate to commit any one particular number.
I know you'd like to have one for your model but I hate to commit to that.
I just say that I believe we hold ourselves to a standard that on flat sales we expect to have improvement.
Research Division</strong> On that Masters of Metal tour I hope you're in a rush toward a pot of sales gold at the end of a rainbow.
It won't turn out to go over like a led zeppelin.
And that was our final question.
Ms.
Kratcoski I'll turn it over back to you for closing remarks.
Thanks everyone for joining us this morning.
A replay of the call will be available shortly.
And as always we appreciate your interest in Snap-on.
Goodbye.
And that concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Snap-on Inc.
2012 Third Quarter Results Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Leslie Kratcoski Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thanks Jennifer and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to review our third quarter 2012 results which are detailed in our press release issued earlier this morning.
We have on the call today Nick Pinchuk Snap-on's Chief Executive Officer; and Aldo Pagliari Snap-on's Chief Financial Officer.
Nick will kick-off our call this morning with his perspective on our performance.
Aldo will then provide a more detailed review of our financial results.
After Nick provides some closing thoughts we'll take your questions.
As usual we've provided slides to supplement our discussion.
You can find a copy of the slides on our website next to the audio icon for this call.
The slides will be archived on our website along with the transcript of today's call.
Any statements made during this call relative to management's expectations estimates or beliefs or otherwise state management's or the company's outlook plans or projections are forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those made in such statements.
Additional information and the factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are contained in our SEC filings.
With that said I'll now turn the call over to Nick Pinchuk.
Nick? Thanks Leslie.
Good morning everybody.
As usual I'll start today's call with highlights of the quarter's results.
I'll provide my perspective on the operations and on our various markets around the world then Aldo will cover the financials in more detail.
The results in the quarter were encouraging again.
EPS of $1.26 and our organic sales increase of 4.6% from last year.
Performance from our operating company or OpCo as we call it was strong with 13.5% operating margin.
And as expected Financial Services also had expanded profitability growing its on-book portfolio.
FinCo OI of $27.9 million was up from the $20.8 million of last year.
And I believe that all of these are encouraging absolutes.
As we highlighted on our release there is a year-over-year comparison impact that results from the substantial movements in our share price in the third quarters of both last year and in this year.
As a result of the related mark-to-market effects this year there was an unfavorable $4.4 million adjustment.
Last year's third quarter included a favorable $7.8 million mark-to-market adjustment.
Absent this $12.2 million unfavorable swing our OpCo operating margin in the quarter increased 170 basis points from 2011 levels an encouraging apples-to-apples rise.
Now the sales increase in the quarter came against clear headwinds.
Those gains generally represent a continuation of the same progress we've been registering over the past few periods.
We're not really seeing much change in the overall market dynamics.
Europe for sure remains tough.
It's our most significant challenge and it has been for some time.
And we also have other headwinds I'll speak about those in a moment in the segment discussion.
But when you operate in diverse geographies and markets there will always be some challenges.
Our strengths though are more than overcoming those headwinds with a clear focus on the 4 areas we've  identified as being decisive for our future: building in emerging markets extending into critical industries enhancing the franchise network and expanding our presence in the repair garage.
We're making progress in each of those areas and you can see it in the results.
Along with the growth you're also seeing improved performance that's being authored by what we call the Snap-on Value Creation Processes.
We drive them every day: safety quality customer connection Rapid Continuous Improvement or RCI and innovation.
These disciplines of improvement are a powerful set of tools.
They are enabling our progress.
And I do just want to touch a little deeper on 2 of the most important components of Snap-on Value Creation: innovation and customer connection.
Snap-on was founded on innovation more than 90 years ago and we've continued and expanded on that tradition through the decades.
It's evident in our brands.
Of course in the Snap-on name the symbol of pride for professionals but it also extends to brands like Bahco the first in the world to offer adjustable wrenches and on our John Bean brand a legacy rooted in the first wheel aligner.
And that innovation is enabled by the significant advantage we have in customer connection with 4 800 franchisees around the world and the hundreds in our direct sales force we reach into 600 000 repair shops in the U.S.
and Europe and into countless workplaces of other types.
And with that presence we observe work and make it easier.
You can see that innovation and customer connection coming together in the Wisconsin lab that we call Innovation Works.
We use that facility to bring technicians in our engineers and designers watch them work get them engaged and we develop new products to make them more productive.
It's an active place it's had more than 12 000 visitors in last -- in 2.5 years since it's been opened -- and it's a great demonstration of customer connection and innovation in action and it's driving results.
You can see innovation supported by customer connection in our new offerings.
Just recently we launched several new products in our Power Tools line like the extension of our successful CTS family of compact tools with more power than ever before new impacts and new drills.
And also our new pneumatic ratchet the longest available for greater accessibility and the fastest for increased productivity.
These were big contributors in the quarter.
Innovation and customer connection also play out in the recognition that our products receive.
Snap-on was just awarded 3 Top 20 tool awards by MOTOR Magazine for 2012.
Almost at the same time Professional Tool &amp; Equipment News recognized an additional 2 Snap-on products citing them for extraordinary innovation.
We believe that these awards clearly demonstrate the success we're having in using our unique customer connection and turning those ideas into successful new innovative products.
And as our results show this does drive sales.
Now let's have some discussion about the segments.
In the Commercial &amp; Industrial Group or C&amp;I organic sales in the quarter were up 4% from last year's level and the operating margin of 11.9% was up a strong 130 basis points.
The story here is much the same as the second quarter Europe being the biggest macro headwind had a significant impact on C&amp;I by way of our European hand tool business SNA Europe.
That business was down mid-single digits in the quarter with particular weakness in the South in places like Spain which is a big market for us.
Outside of that operation our progress in serving customers in critical industries and in the emerging markets of Asia along with a particular strength in power tools as a result of those new products were able to more than offset the SNA Europe impact.
Speaking of Asia Pacific we saw encouraging growth there again in the third quarter high single-digits overall.
We often speak of India and China but at this quarter Indonesia and Thailand deserve special mention.
They performed quite well contributing to the overall results.
With respect to product our undercar equipment and hand tool lineups led the growth in our Asian markets.
And as I said in our last call -- but it's worth repeating -- undercar equipment is an important high-visibility high-value product line.
It allows us to clearly showcase our advantage and our advantage is in innovation.
That's a feature of great importance in growing our position in Asia Pacific and it's working for us.
Critical industries are already largely served -- are also largely served in the C&amp;I group through our industrial division.
And that operations has headwinds of its own areas of restricted government spending like the military which is weak due to troop withdrawals and the overall funding constraints.
On the other hand gains in serving customers in the critical aerospace and the natural resources sectors more than offset that military challenge.
Actually the overall industrial growth was one of the key factors in C&amp;I posting a reasonable gain in spite of the European and military headwinds.
Let's move to the Tools Group.
Double-digit gains again up 11.1% from last year with an operating margin of 13%.
I believe that kind of growth in the current environment clearly reflects the strength of our franchise network.
It's evident in the detailed statistics we call franchisee health metrics.
We monitor them closely and I'll tell you that franchisee sales and profits are up route turnover is low and so are the delinquency rates at Snap-on Credit.
And the strength and the enthusiasm in the network could be seen in the quarter when we held our Annual Franchisee Conference -- record attendance and orders.
That event serves many purposes.
It's part training session part new-product and tools shows and part pep rally.
It's a reunion of professionals where we get a good feeling for the business at the grass roots level.
And discussions I had with franchisees were very positive positive both on the current conditions and positive on their prospects for their future.
An important part of our progress is that we're working closely more closely than ever with our franchisees to improve their business.
Consider that 4 of those 5 awards from MOTOR Magazine and Professional Tool &amp; Equipment News enabled the tools group.
Many our new power tools were developed specifically for automotive technicians.
We have the traveling tool fair we call the Masters of Metal Tour which I spoke of last quarter and we are expanding our fleet of new Rock 'n Roll Cabs specifically -- specially outfitted trucks filled with tool storage units aimed at driving those big-ticket sales.
That effort helped drive increases for tool storage at rates well beyond the overall Tools Group growth.
And those sales are also aided by our wholly-owned credit company.
Snap-on Credit focuses precisely on supporting those big-ticket transactions and it's a real advantage for us and for our franchisees.
We also have teams of people working to improve franchisees' productivity finding ways to make their business easier stronger and more profitable.
All of these initiatives are coming together and it's clear that they're achieving ongoing gains.
Now to Repair Systems &amp; Information Group or RS&amp;I.
This is where we primarily serve automotive repair shop owners and managers.
Organic sales in RS&amp;I were up 2.7% and the operating margin of 22.3% expanded by 270 basis points.
The relatively modest overall growth rate I think requires some explanation because the market dynamics across the different businesses vary quite a bit.
Our strength in expanding our presence in the independent repair shops is clear but it's being muted somewhat by lower activity with the OEMs and by the impact of Europe.
We do continue to see solid gains high single digits in repair information and diagnostic units for the independent shop technicians owners and managers.
And we appear to be gaining position driven by new products like Mitchell 1's ProDemand repair information software and also with an array of popular handheld diagnostic units.
In fact our SOLUS Ultra a groundbreaking diagnostic unit is one of the products that was just recognized by MOTOR Magazine.
And we're keeping that momentum expanding and going.
At this year's franchisee conference we also launched the VERUS PRO setting a new industry standard for top-of-the-line units enhanced diagnostics capabilities faster performance and a thinner design and the reception has been strong.
On the other hand we continue to see lower activity with the automotive OEMs especially in Europe.
Last year we had some fairly large European programs that are now winding down.
That's the nature of that business and we believe the overall negative macroeconomics in Europe are creating reluctance by the OEMs to launch new programs making for some weakness in this already uneven segment.
Speaking of Europe our RS&amp;I does have a sizable presence in that region with undercar equipment.
Now the past several quarters I've mentioned the business being down in the mature markets of Western Europe no surprise given the troubled environment.
And while that area was down again mid-single digits our overall undercar business was up from last year's level based on the growth in North America in Russia and in Brazil.
So the overall comparisons in the Undercar business were somewhat better than the past few quarters.
And that's also been aided by new offerings.
In fact our John Bean Integrity Test Drive system was another one of the products recognized by the MOTOR Top 20.
This is a unique system and it highlights several of our capabilities from diagnostics to alignment that we brought together in the RS&amp;I group.
The Integrity performs a complete vehicle inspection in just minutes.
It checks alignment the battery the brakes and the diagnostics code and it generates a condition report that helps greatly in communicating with the customer right in the shop.
We're excited about this product and it's winning awards and it certainly does make the technician's work easier.
Well those are the highlights of the quarter.
Organic sales gain of 4.6% in our range of expected growth; OpCo margin increase of 170 basis points after adjusting for the impact of mark-to-market; FinCo continuing its profit increase and clear evidence of progress along our strategic runways for improvement and for growth.
All in all another encouraging quarter.
Now I'll turn the call over to Aldo.
Thanks Nick.
Our third quarter consolidated operating results are summarized on Slide 6.
Net sales totaled $711.6 million representing an organic sales increase of 4.6%.
This increase included positive organic growth in each of our operating segments.
Consolidated gross profit of $340.4 million increased $11.1 million from 2011 levels and gross margin of 47.8% improved 60 basis points from 47.2% last year largely due to savings from RCI initiatives including benefits from restructuring.
Operating expenses of $244.2 million were up $9.2 million from last year.
As a result of the increase in the quarter-end Snap-on stock price operating expenses in the third quarter included an unfavorable $4.4 million of stock-based mark-to-market expense.
Last year you may recall operating expenses in the third quarter were partially offset by $7.8 million of benefit from mark-to-market as a result of a decrease in the Q3 2011 quarter-end stock price.
The operating expense margin of 34.3% in the quarter increased 60 basis points from 2011 levels as favorable sales volume leverage was more than offset by the $12.2 million or 170 basis points of higher mark-to-market expense.
Restructuring cost totaled $2.3 million in the quarter compared to $2.9 million last year.
Operating earnings before Financial Services of $96.2 million increased $1.9 million year-over-year despite the $12.2 million of higher mark-to-market expense.
As a percentage of sales operating margin of 13.5% including the adverse 170 basis points impact from higher mark-to-market expense was unchanged from last year.
Operating earnings from Financial Services of $27.9 million increased $7.1 million or 34.1% over prior year levels.
Consolidated operating earnings of $124.1 million in the quarter increased $9 million over last year's levels and the operating margin of 16.5% improved 70 basis points from 15.8% a year ago.
Finally third quarter net earnings of $74.1 million or $1.26 per diluted share compared to $67.8 million or $1.16 last year.
Now let's turn to our segment results.
Starting with the Commercial &amp; Industrial or C&amp;I group on Slide 7.
Third quarter sales of $280.4 million were up 4% organically from 2011 levels.
This growth resulted primarily from mid to high single-digit sales increases in the businesses serving customers in critical industries and in the emerging markets of Asia coupled with a double-digit increase in sales of Power Tools.
These increases were partially offset by a mid-single-digit decline in our European-based hand tool business as a result of continued market weakness particularly in Southern Europe.
Gross profit totaled $103.7 million with gross margin of 37% improving 10 basis points from last year.
Operating expenses of $70.3 million decreased $2.9 million from 2011 levels and the operating expense margin of 25.1% improved 120 basis points from 2011 levels primarily due to benefits from sales volume leverage and RCI initiatives.
As a result of these factors third quarter operating earnings of $33.4 million for the C&amp;I segment increased 12.8% from 2011 levels and the operating margin of 11.9% improved 130 basis points from 10.6% last year.
Turning now to Slide 8.
Third quarter sales in the Snap-on Tools Group of $308.8 million increased 11.1% organically reflecting double-digit sales increases in both the company's U.S.
and international franchise operations.
Gross profit of $131.3 million increased $6.1 million from 2011 levels.
Gross margin of 42.5% in the quarter declined 230 basis points from 44.8% last year primarily due to increased promotional programs associated with sales gains including expanded participation at this year's Annual Snap-on Franchisee Conference.
Operating expenses totaled $91.1 million and the operating expense margin of 29.5% in the quarter improved 260 basis points from 32.1% last year largely due to sales volume leverage.
Operating earnings of $40.2 million in the quarter for the Snap-on Tools Group increased $4.6 million or 12.9% from last year's levels and the operating margin of 13% increased 30 basis points from 12.7% last year.
Turning to the Repair Systems &amp; Information or RS&amp;I group shown on Slide 9.
Third quarter sales of $222 million increased 2.7% organically primarily due to a high single-digit increase in sales of diagnostics and Mitchell 1 repair information products and a mid single-digit increase in worldwide sales of equipment.
These increases were partially offset by a mid single-digit decline in sales to OEM dealerships particularly in Europe.
Gross profit totaled $105.4 million with gross margin of 47.5% increasing 200 basis points from 45.5% last year.
This improvement is primarily due to savings from ongoing RCI initiatives as well as a more favorable sales mix that included higher sales of diagnostics and repair information products.
Operating expenses totaled $55.9 million with the operating expense margin improving 70 basis points to 25.2% reflecting sales volume leverage and contributions from RCI.
Third quarter operating earnings of $49.5 million for the RS&amp;I group increased $5.8 million or 13.3%.
And the operating margin improved 270 basis points year-over-year to 22.3%.
Now turning to Slide 10.
Third quarter earnings from Financial Services increased $7.1 million primarily due to the growth of the on-book finance portfolio.
Originations of $179.6 million in the quarter rose 17.7% reflecting both higher sales in our Snap-on Tools segment and increased participation in our credit programs.
Moving to Slide 11.
Our quarter-end balance sheet includes $1.06 billion of gross financing receivables including $893 million from our U.S.
Snap-on Credit operation and $169 million from our international finance subsidiaries.
In the U.S.
$714 million or 80% of the financing portfolio relates to extended credit loans to technicians.
Since the beginning of 2012 our on-book financing portfolio has grown approximately $128 million.
Approximately $108 million of the expanded portfolio relates to the U.S.
while $20 million is associated with our international finance subsidiaries including $6 million of positive currency effect.
For the remainder of the year we anticipate that the worldwide finance portfolio will grow by an additional $20 million.
Regarding finance portfolio losses and delinquency trends these continue to be in line with our expectations.
Now turning to Slide 12.
Third quarter cash provided by operations of $69.7 million in 2012 increased $27.7 million from prior year levels and includes the effect of $16 million of additional third quarter discretionary cash contributions to our U.S.
pension plans.
This contribution is in addition to $26.7 million of discretionary contributions made earlier this year.
Depending on market and other conditions we may elect to make additional discretionary cash contributions to our U.S.
pension plans.
Capital expenditures totaled $19.7 million in the quarter and $59.5 million year-to-date.
We anticipate full-year capital expenditures will be in the range of $75 million to $80 million including the construction of a fourth factory at our Kunshan China location which is expected to be completed by year end.
As seen on Slide 13 days sales outstanding for trade receivables of 59 days compare to 58 days as of 2011 year end.
Inventories increased $31 million from 2011 year-end levels primarily to support continued higher demand largely in the United States.
On a trailing 12-month basis inventory turns of 3.8x compare to 4.2x at 2011 year end.
Our quarter end cash position of $176 million decreased $9.5 million from year-end levels primarily due to the continued year-to-date funding of new loans originated by Snap-on Credit U.S.
pension contributions of $61 million share repurchases of $61.8 million capital expenditures of $59.5 million and dividend payments of $59.4 million.
These year-to-date uses of cash were largely offset by cash generated from operations.
Our net debt to cap ratio of 31.9% compares to 34.3% at 2011 year end.
In addition to our $176 million of cash and expected cash flow from operations we have more than $700 million in available credit facilities and our current short-term credit ratings allow us to access the commercial paper markets should we choose to do so.
As of quarter end no amounts were outstanding under any of these facilities.
This concludes my remarks on our third quarter performance.
I'll now turn the call back over to Nick for his closing thoughts.
Nick? Thanks Aldo.
Well that's Snap-on's third quarter.
Clear progress along our runways for growth and for improvement overcoming the turbulence of Europe and the general economic uncertainty.
Snap-on value creation is driving improvement.
Our innovation and customer connection processes are combining to create product excitement and real customer value.
And when combined with RCI they enable progress.
Adjusted for mark-to-market OpCo OI margin rose significantly.
And we are moving forward along our runways for growth recording solid organic gains.
Those results confirm that our efforts are paying off in each of the 4 areas we've identified as decisive for our future.
Consider the quarter's performance building in emerging markets -- we had strong gains in places like Thailand Indonesia and Russia.
Extending into critical industries -- we saw significant growth in sectors like aerospace and natural resources overcoming the challenges in the military and offsetting the weaknesses of Europe.
Expanding in the repair garage -- diagnostics and repair information up strongly in independent garages more than balancing the unevenness in the activity with the OEMs.
And undercar equipment sales in Russia and in Brazil and in North America overcoming the ongoing challenges due to the European macros.
Enhancing the franchise network double-digit gains in the U.S.
for the ninth straight quarter.
An enthusiastic network that showed up in greater numbers than ever before at our Annual Franchise Conference celebrating their success while training to further improve their businesses.
That's thousands of small business owners energetic invested and optimistic.
Optimistic about their place on the Snap-on runway for growth.
Yes there are challenges but just like past periods Snap-on's progress in the areas of opportunity have overcome the difficulties and achieved a favorable balance.
And because of that we are encouraged and clearly confident.
Encouraged by the ongoing results and confident of our possibilities for growth and improvement as we move forward.
Before I close I want to recognize our associates and franchisees.
Many of you I know are listening.
I know that third quarter results and the favorable trends reflect your effort your capability and your commitment to our team.
For all of that you have my congratulations and you have my thanks.
Now I'll turn the call over to the operator for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions]  We'll take our first question from David Leiker with Baird.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start on the Snap-on Tool business in particular international.
You have got a great track record under your belt here in the U.S.
with the performance there.
That double-digit gain in the international breaks the trend there of low single-digits for a long time.
Can you talk about what specifically on the international side has changed that and whether that's something that is sustainable going forward? We think it is.
Well I don't know.
Double digits I -- even though we've had a run of double-digits David I think I've been pretty consistent on these calls to say I'm not sure that kind of -- I would say stratospheric -- growth can continue but I think the strength in those places are pretty solid.
The U.K.
has improved substantially in the last I would say over the last couple of quarters and that is driving this.
We've made great strides forward in terms of improving our product line and our relationship -- productivity with our franchisees there.
Australia has been contributing quite well.
And Canada has been very strong.
We've actually spent a lot of time and a lot of focus maybe off-camera a little bit focusing on those areas and what you're seeing is the result of that focus doing the same kinds of things adjusted for the -- that we did in the United States -- adjusted for the local market.
So it’s a sum of Canada U.K.
and Australia all doing better.
Research Division</strong> On the U.S.
side in terms of the sustainability the track record you put there could you characterize at all? I mean obviously market share is a piece of that but between market share kind of deeper market penetration areas you haven't been the product offering can you put those into buckets of the contribution to that great performance in the U.S.
at all? No.
I don't think I can actually.
But there clearly are 2 elements of it.
One is we are because of our new ways of marketing able to sell more to the same customers.
I think the idea of the traveling -- the idea of the Rock 'n Roll Cab Express and I think we're at the end of the quarter we're at 28 we're going to go upwards almost -- we're going to expand that quite a bit going forward and -- because they've been so successful.
So that's clearly a kind of wrinkle on the Van business in allowing us to sell more to pretty much our existing customers.
Then on top of that as I've said often we are calling on more customers because our vans are becoming more productive and our product line is becoming wider and appealing to them.
I can't put those into buckets.
And I hate to talk market share because it's a very imprecise exercise when you're talking about tools and you start to have such a wide universe of possible products it's very difficult to describe.
I do think though we're making great gains in the Tools group now.
It's clear after 9 quarters of double-digits the Tools Group team has got this businesses which is one of the world's great businesses I think.
That team has got this business resonating.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] with the Rock 'n Roll Cab Express do you think you're getting folks to buy more products than they normally do buy or are they buying it at Snap-on instead of at Sears or Lowe's? I think there's both of those things.
I think we think they're buying it from us as opposed to possibly other places.
But there's both of those things.
I mean David as you know it's like a new car purchase.
All of a sudden we now have showrooms in the field as opposed to catalogs.
And so that's generally it.
You were buying the thing they were buying the thing from more or less from a catalog and now they have showrooms.
And you can think about how that excites people and it wins customers and it also accelerates the buy from some people.
I mean I think that some people probably are buying toolboxes already have Snap-on toolboxes they see a new one they say boy I can't live without that one I'm going to have it.
And then the other people were competitors and they see what the quality offerings we have.
And we believe we have some really great offerings that are superior to the competitors based on innovation and they're coming over to our side.
But I can't tell you how much -- which is which.
We'll go next to David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
Just while we are on the topic of storage with that organic growth of 11.1% how much of that was storage? Well I don't like to talk about that but -- to give those numbers but -- in that detail -- but I will tell you that the tools storage product line grew substantially higher than the 11% of the U.S.
business or the overall tools business -- if it gives you any view.
And is there any way for us to think about that? I mean you talked about 28 showrooms that I guess we can call them and you're going to growth that.
At what rate does that grow and how does the productivity from that grow? I don't know.
I mean that will be too precise for -- I'm not smart enough to say that I think.
I think it's like this I believe that every one we add gets more sales.
At least as far as we can see now that's why we're doing this that's why we're doing it.
But but but we'll keep doing it until we see diminishing returns I believe.
So far we haven't seen anything in the way of diminishing returns.
That makes sense.
Well congratulations on the success of that program.
You talked in the C&amp;I business about pricing being up mids to high single digits.
I was just wondering my guess is probably not a lot that was in Europe although maybe I'm wrong but can you just help us understand how that experience might have played out over critical industries versus emerging markets? Say that again.
You mean...
The pricing in the C&amp;I you said was up mid to high single digits I'm just wondering across those 3 businesses -- my guess is there's not a lot in Europe but maybe I'm wrong on that.
But can you talk about pricing critical industries versus emerging markets? Sales were up.
Sales were up mid single-digits.
That's a component of our emerging market growth.
Emerging markets are now about 10% of our business and critical industries are a significant piece of that.
I'd say that -- let me see if I can help in this way.
The C&amp;I Group grew at about 4% the emerging markets which is about 10% of our total business which is mostly in C&amp;I grew close to double digits.
Maybe I could follow up with you offline on that.
Then on the RS&amp;I business you said there was a high single-digit increase in the diagnostics and Mitchell 1 business I know you've got a lot of innovation and new product in that business right now.
Was there anything there last quarter or is this all just sort of emerging...
Actually let's -- for government work the RS&amp;I business looks sort of the same as last quarter in mix.
Mitchell 1 the Repair Systems &amp; Information business was up sort of right close to double digits.
In fact I think it was just over the double-digit boundary and that's the Repair Information business driven by what I call ProDemand repair information software.
It's a new offering which has more information and the navigation is much simpler than anybody else's anymore.
So it's a very attractive offering combining state-of-the-art navigation with the best database available and people are lining up to subscribe to that.
So that business has been growing pretty well and the diagnostic business -- and that happened last quarter too happened last quarter.
Nick does it accelerate into the fourth quarter? Accelerate I don't know.
But I think we feel encouraged by our prospects there.
I think we feel positive about our position looking at independent garages.
The diagnostics business I was going to say that's the handheld the software the hardware and software business the laptops for cars grew at mid or high single digits.
And those have been the same for a couple of quarters give or take a few basis points.
So I don't know I mean we don't really give guidance but we feel good about our position.
That sounds great.
And the last question just on the tools business aside from the storage business I was just wondering if you could talk about trends and big-ticket sales off the truck? Looks okay.
I think it looks okay.
I mean that's one of the things we always watch.
So I suppose the operative question is this is that are you seeing downturn in big-ticket which would precursor maybe a cooling off of everything? And I don't think we do.
Now you might say well do you have visibility because you've got this new marketing program and are you able to pierce the veil of the marketing program to see what's actually happening in what I call just a pre-demand type activity in the marketplace? And I think we can and I don't think we see a downturn.
We'll go next to Mike Wherley with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Obviously the Tools Group has been very strong for many quarters now and I'm just wondering do you -- when you're looking forward 1 quarter 2 quarters 3 quarters when do you feel like there might be some tough comps that are going to be difficult for your business to sort of keep the growth going? I mean not that it's going to grow at double digits but might it flatten out altogether if you run into tough comps? Well look I think we've said in many forums that we expect to grow as a corporation 4% to 6% organically.
I didn't mean by that that we would do it every quarter although we have been able to do it most quarters.
I think probably almost all quarters -- but we feel confident of our ability to keep growing at that rate.
I'm not saying we'll do it every quarter I mean that's not what I mean.
But I mean if you're talking about the trend we feel okay about that.
Yes the comps get tougher but they got tougher last year and the year before that and the year before that.
So I don't think we're so worried about that.
Now it's a challenge but we're not wringing our hands over it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
What about the -- just sort of thinking about it this way just to be devil's advocate.
If you're talking about selling more to the same customers and you're talking about this Rock 'n Roll Cab Express that's selling big-ticket items that maybe some of these wouldn't have bought if this Cab Express didn't roll into their garage.
I'm wondering now at what point does selling more to the same people lead to a smaller wallet in the future? I mean well I don't think it leads to a smaller wallet but it might lead to people who have used up their capacity to you might say it's led to their people -- people to use up their capacity to buy.
I don't think we've seen the bottom of that yet.
I don't think we believe we've seen the bottom of that yet.
But it's a reasonable point as you lay out over distance but what you have there is a couple of things.
First is is underlining this business repair is a good solid business.
Every quarter for a number of quarters the household spending on automotive repair has been up.
So the underlying demand is good.
By the way that's in independent shops and so our core customer is growing and getting more business that's number 1.
Number 2 is we keep -- the cars keep changing we keep changing the products they can see ways -- I was just out on a van on Monday I was out on a van on Monday and you can see these guys talk to you.
They say gee could you get me -- it's like customer connection.
You go there and they say I need a special tool to help me pull this engine so I can do some work on it because this particular vehicle has some particular geometry and if I do that I can make more money.
So part of the key here is every time they pay every time they give us money they make more money.
So the more they spend with us the better they -- the more money they make.
So there's a kind of offset to the idea of the wallet reaches an end that's 1.
And not just from attenuation [ph] but 2 we have said that there are customers out there that we don't call on.
Maybe they were Matco customers for a time maybe they were Mac customers maybe they were geographically undesirable maybe they were in places that weren't target-rich and because we have more productivity and a wider product line we are going to them and that's going on here too.
So I'm optimistic about the Tools Group possibilities.
Now I'm not here to sign up for continuous double-digit growth though in the Tools Group.
I think I said I'm signing up for 4% to 6% for the total corporation over time.
We feel confident about this.
Research Division</strong> But do you think the Tools Group can sustain something higher than what you've said? Can it sustain 5% to 6% on its own? They're starting to make me look dumb aren't they? But I still say I like our other businesses.
I like the opportunities of C&amp;I to grow at the high end of that.
I like RS&amp;I we're seeing a particular time when they are muted by Europe 33% of C&amp;I is in Europe 17% of it is in Southern Europe.
All right? And it's still growing at 4%.
25% of RS&amp;I is in Europe and we got the OEMs kind of nervous and so we got this lumpy business.
So I see the opportunities of those businesses to grow.
We'll go next to Richard Hilgert with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions here on my end.
In the European market obviously the U.K.
new car sales are doing pretty well there.
I would imagine that they're not experiencing some of the economic issues that the mainland Europe is experiencing aftermarket probably isn't doing quite as bad there either and so I was wondering if you could kind of compare and contrast between the two.
And also in Europe it seems to me like the European downturn is harsh enough that we're going to see consumers postponing aftermarket repairs for quite some time.
And I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit about the correlation between when we start -- when should we start to see the aftermarket coming back when people would start making repairs again versus when you see new-car sales start to improve coming out of an economic trough? It's tough.
But I'll say this.
For my money for my money there's no correlation between new car sales and our business.
We don't see that really.
I think to the extent that new car -- I suppose you could say that to the extent new car sales go down we may see a slight burst.
But generally the thing is in the U.K.
as in the United States what are new cars sales in the United States? This year they're forecasted at 15.2 million or something like that well there's -- North America rather.
There are 300 million vehicles on the road.
So new car sales are kind of like a blip in the after -- I think driving our aftermarket business anyway.
So we don't really see it that way.
It is true though you are right though that the U.K.
is a stronger market.
We found it to be uniformly for all our businesses and this is businesses both in automotive repair and critical industries to be a better market for us than the rest of the -- than the continent for sure.
And so we were kind of cautiously positive about that view.
And I don't know if that continues or not I think part of it is that people in the U.K.
-- I think people don't necessarily postpone repair I think they postpone new purchases.
So I don't really see a downturn in repair there so much.
Now remember in Europe our businesses are broader-based than in the United States so we have less of the business in automotive repair and more in the industrial and other places like agriculture.
So we're more broadly based in terms of vertical industries in Europe.
So you got to take that into account.
Now if you say the rest of Europe and when is it going to recover and when are people going to start spending again? I'd give you two thoughts I think the South -- in fact I'll just say traditional Europe Western Europe I'm not making any predictions.
On one of these calls I said once that Spain I thought had hit the bottom.
Well that was wrong and that was like 2 years ago.
So I don't think anybody can actually predict this.
All we can say for sure is our base customer base.
Our base customer base seems to be intact so we believe it comes back.
Now if you talk about the periphery of Europe if you talk about Eastern Europe you talk about Turkey you talk about Maghreb countries those businesses by and large they have their ups and downs in every quarter by and large they've been pretty good for us.
I don't know if that helps you any but I get -- in summary I think the U.K.
is okay and reasonable.
I think nobody knows what's going to happen in Continental Europe and I think the periphery is pretty good.
Research Division</strong> Just the follow-on to an earlier question about the same size wallet putting out more for additional tools.
It seems to me like part of that that you have to figure into that equation is the advancement of technology over time.
For example Nissan is talking about launching within the next year Drive-by-Wire in its Infiniti brand.
This is going to the first mass-produced use of this technology and that means that the tools and the diagnostics and things that are going to be needed to work on that kind of thing in the garage are going to have to change and you're going to have to come out with new tools.
So it seems to me like the kudos that you're getting from the industry magazines all the time and industry studies being done and the drive from the innovation that you do is part of getting that additional amount for the same set of garages that you're already in.
You mentioned also earlier in the call how you have the research that you do there in Wisconsin where you're bringing in people and you're observing them working on vehicles do you do that kind of thing and is the innovation is as strong over the European market because obviously you've got a different product set over there that you have to deal with versus what's here in the States.
Yes we do it in Europe and in places but the landscape in Europe for example our share of automotive repair is much larger in the U.K.
than it is say Germany or say Sweden.
So we do it.
If you're talking about the garage and our observation in the garage U.K.
that model is pretty good but we don't have a center like we do here.
But let me offer this is that the big customer connection flow the information flow is not really in Innovation Works.
Innovation Works is where we brought observations together with product design closer than ever before.
But the by and large -- the blocking and tackling of innovation and customer connection is every day when the franchisees and our salesmen go into garages and factories and repair facilities and see how things are working that's how it happens more than just having it here.
And we have that in U.K.
Now what you said about innovation and change this is our bread and butter because if you think about it just think about hand tools we guarantee hand tools for life.
So if we didn't have -- if there weren't requirements different requirements we wouldn't have a business.
So for 9 decades we've been staying -- we've been having a business based on just the very kind of innovation you described.
Nissan changes their cars we got the best tools.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Last area I wanted to talk a little bit about was credit and I was wondering if first of all if you could give a little bit more details on the increase in delinquencies is that Europe and because of the economic conditions over there or something else causing that? And was also curious is how do you handle the differences between -- credit is a very legislated industry and you've got some major differences now between the U.S.
and Europe and how do you look at the policies for the 2? How are they distinguished? And in the U.S.
with the consumer protection agency now getting really ramped up into more full activity is there anything coming along there on the credit side that you're going to have to look at when it comes in terms of your policies for setting credit out in the field? Richard Aldo here.
Let me just jump in and take -- I'll take the easier one of your questions first and that's -- let's talk about delinquencies.
Actually the delinquency trends have a seasonal element to them and they're tracking right where we expect them to be in a favorable manner.
They will tend to run up slightly up until after the Christmas holidays and when people start getting their tax refunds back in March -- I'm not making this up you'll see that we usually get a trend that starts to go in other direction.
So the trends if you look back over prior years it's fairly consistent with our expectations.
So if you go back to the quarter Q3 of last year they were exactly 1.4% as well.
So that's a good point.
Your questions regarding compliance sure.
Watching compliance is a complicated area and we keep our eyes open but I want to remind you we are commercial lenders and we strive to be interpreted as such under whether they be state regulations a U.S.
government regulations or are the same in other fields of -- other country operations.
And again there's always new compliance rules and regulations on the horizon.
We do our best to stay abreast of that.
We feel we do a good job of complying with that.
Should we add some incremental expenses to deal with that we go with -- we pay that as we go.
So we feel pretty comfortable that yes it's an area that will continue to see more regulation and we're prepared to deal with it accordingly as it comes up.
We'll go next to Alek Gasiel from Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of things.
Gary -- I'm sitting in for Gary but kind of getting back to the whole promotional thing in the Tool group are you able to actually substitute that for the under -- for areas that the van are under-penetrated in? Or is that...
No that's not -- I don't think that really is how it happens.
One of the things we did have more promotions in the quarter in the Tools group but one of the things that -- one base knowledge that's useful I think in this is every month every week in fact we have promotions throughout the Tools group.
It's part and parcel with the activity there.
It's kind of an excitement builder that rolls through.
And so fundamentally what happened in the Tools group is basically we're more active in promotions in the quarter.
Some of that had to do with the SFC the Franchisee Conference where it's kind of the most exciting promotions are sometimes there.
We had more people at the Franchisee Conference than ever before the take-up rate was high and the promotions we offered there and so that tended to drive some of that increase.
That's really it.
Those weren't aimed at reaching out to other new technicians or anything like that.
The reaching out is more a productivity issue actually.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Are you seeing an increase of people wanting to sign up to be franchisees now? I think we are but we're being very selective.
We're not looking to increase the franchise.
I mean you will see the odd franchise I think we probably went up 1 or 2 vans this quarter and so that happens.
We're being very selective and we're happy with the people we're getting.
What we're trying to do is make sure -- try to make sure we can anticipate who wants to retire and match up a person in that jurisdiction at that time.
That's really the trick now is to reduce the time to open.
We eventually get a guy but we want to reduce the time.
And so you can appreciate if somebody wants to -- if the franchisee in Tuscaloosa Alabama wants to retire you got to have a guy in Tuscaloosa.
A guy in Des Moines doesn't help you and so we're working on that now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you commented about the muted OEM dealers particularly in Europe.
I wonder if you could provide any color on North America.
What are you seeing...
What I meant by that if I said OEM dealers I didn't mean that.
I meant OEM manufacturers.
What happens is is that in that particular business the OEM manufacturers decide to commission an essential tool often like a special diagnostic unit a laptop for cars say Toyota might do it or Honda or somebody like that that might say make this diagnostic unit for just my vehicle and distribute it through my dealerships.
And they'll have programs that they author and the program might last 8 months 9 months a year or something like that where they say they are going to roll these out.
And then once it's rolled out it's over.
And then you wait -- you have to get another program to continue the business and we have a series of programs.
All we were saying was is that the programs in Europe are running out and the European OEMs we believe are a little bit keeping their powder dry looking at the economics.
Even though new car sales are not so down in Europe I think they're down about 8% -- but still I think they're being very careful.
And so that's what we're seeing in Europe.
In the United States we're seeing less of that but it's down slightly down slightly.
And I think that's partially because new car sales aren't bad but the sort of economic uncertainty the fiscal uncertainty is dominating whether you want to invest in a long-term program like that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then I keep reading about the headline risk and the softness reporting in China.
Does that have any impact on you? Well it can from time-to-time.
I mean we sell into factories factories are closing down and we sell some into factories.
It can from time to time but we have some offsets to that -- we sell into Repair and the Repair business moves up.
So I think our direct linkage to that is unclear and kind of nebulous.
GDP was down I think it was 7.8% but if you looked at power consumption in China the Industrial business the industrial consumption of power was down but the consumer consumption was up.
So that kind of says that well the industrial sector is weakening but the consumers are rolling up and in that balance I'm not sure how that would affect us really.
The big thing is China is a great opportunity for us and we keep building physicals there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One last question.
And I know you provided already some color on this.
Just on Europe what is their -- what are you hearing in some of the attitudes from the people you talk to there?  And I mean just kind of looking at certain pockets of areas I mean are Scandinavian countries still holding up or I know...
You know look -- sorry go ahead keep going.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I was just going to say I think you commented that Western Europe was down single digits right? Yes.
I would characterize it like this.
Of course the South Spain and Portugal and those places and Italy and so on know they are in bigger trouble -- and Greece.
They know they've got problems.
So when you talk to people whether your customers -- and our customers are businessmen in most -- by and large either small or large.
And our people they're very very I would say muted.
But they have confidence that they're going to muddle through they're going to get through this.
If you talk to people in what I'll call the other areas of Europe like the U.K.
or Scandinavia or France or Germany they're more positive.
They just view this as hey this is a bump in the road we're going to batten down the hatches and we're going to go forward.
I think our view of -- I think if you read the U.S.
papers and you look at Europe you get more alarmed about the long-term than the impression you get when you walk the grassroots path in Europe.
Now I'm not sure who's right to tell you the truth but you don't get -- I would say you don't get I would say fatalism in Europe.
Our people our customers believe the world's coming back and we believe they're coming back with us.
We'll go next to David Leiker with Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick follow-ups here.
I hope [indiscernible] On RS&amp;I Nick on this OEM dealer business what's the scale of that these days? How important...
I don't know.
But by and large the OEM facing business the pure OEM facing business is about 1/3 of the business.
There are types of the segment -- sorry the segment yes.
Sorry I misspoke.
It's roughly like this David the OEM facing business is 1/3 the independent facing business is 1/3 and equipment which plays in both territories is another 1/3.
Research Division</strong> And is that -- given the lumpiness of that business are those returns such that that's a space you want to stay in or not? Well the business can be lucrative for us when it's rolling.
It is lumpy but it's not unprofitable now for us.
It's just less profitable than the other ones.
And one thing that comes through we like being at least some of our business close to the OEMs because we believe it informs us about what's going on for forward thinking around innovation and what's coming in the OEM's product lines.
We believe that [indiscernible] something to us.
Research Division</strong> And then on the power tools side how much -- do you have any sense of the tools your franchisees sell off the truck? How many of those tools are your tools versus somebody else's and if there's still an opportunity for you to penetrate that deeper? I don't have hard numbers for you but I believe now a huge share of the tools the power tools we sell off the truck are Snap-on.
I believe a huge share.
Research Division</strong> And how important has that been to driving it as opposed to end markets or products or other elements? It wasn't a factor in this quarter.
But over time I can't tell but not that significantly.
When I'm talking about over time I'm talking about back when I was in C&amp;I we used to talk about bringing it home and that now we're talking what? 2003 2002 2004 we used to be -- I ran the business that had power tools in it.
We used to talk about gee we need to get our franchisees confident in our tools so they won't sell other people's and we did.
And that happened gradually over that time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last item here as we look at the balance sheet the manufacturing company here is essentially debt-free.
The asset base on the credit company has been rebuilt back to where you wanted it to be.
With this cash flow you generate now what are the priorities for that going forward? Priorities are first organic growth and we had some pretty good organic growth in some places dividends and acquisitions and offsetting dilution.
Those are the 4 priorities.
Research Division</strong> And in the organic growth I mean the business is essentially self-funding I mean you throw off more money than you generate there...
Well we're starting to for sure yes.
I mean I think you'd be fair to say that we'd start to build up some cash sort of next year towards the end of next year sometime.
And we can put that cash to work.
Research Division</strong> And then on the dividend you're paying about 25% of your earnings.
Are you implying that that number can go -- I mean once upon a time you're paying out almost half of your earnings.
Yes but that was because our earnings were lower.
I think the denominator was changed.
I think look we don't have a set number as a percentage.
Our unifying principle around dividends is that we have paid the dividend every year every quarter since 1939 and we have never reduced it and that's it.
And so every quarter we assess whether we want to bring our dividend upwards and that's basically what we do.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly on the acquisitions you haven't really made anything significant since the Business Solutions business.
What are your priorities or where your focus areas in terms of acquisitions? Okay first may I simply say though before I say that is that I kind of view the credit company as a pretty big acquisition.
If we had goofed it up people would've been talking about integration and things like that.
So I think it was a kind of acquisition in a way.
But look here's our priorities: we would do -- we will acquire anything along the 4 decisive strategic runways for growth enhance the network if we acquire anything in that way.
Now it's not so clear there would be things there but we would do.
And then emerging markets positions in emerging markets more strength in the repair shop owners and managers and that customer base or more gravitas in critical industries.
Those would be our priorities.
And I don't mean in any particular order there.
I just think those are -- we'd be looking at all of those areas.
Research Division</strong> And understanding that timing of those things can be challenging is that something that's 3 years from now you hope to be able to execute on some of those or is it -- if something comes along it comes along? Well I think we believe there's opportunities.
We believe we're coming out from under the credit company we believe we turn the cash on other things.
I mean I think it's timed by the credit company coming out of getting fulfilled.
And so that's when we start looking at that.
I think I've been saying this to other people for a while.
But I think as I said sort of next year we're starting to get in that situation where we're looking very aggressively at these kinds of things.
And we -- most us have quite a bit of experience integrating and acquiring companies.
So I don't think we have any trepidation about doing any of this stuff.
Thank you.
I'd now like to turn the conference back over to your host Leslie Kratcoski.
Thanks for joining us everyone.
A replay of the call will be available shortly on snapon.com.
And as always we appreciate your interest.
Thanks very much.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's Snap-on 2012 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference to Ms.
Leslie Kratcoski Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thanks Augusta and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review our fourth quarter 2012 results which are detailed in our press release issued earlier this morning.
We have on the call today Nick Pinchuk Snap-on's Chief Executive Officer; and Aldo Pagliari Snap-on's Chief Financial Officer.
Nick will kick off our call this morning with his perspective on our performance.
Aldo will then provide a more detailed review of our financial results.
After Nick provides some closing thoughts we'll take your questions.
As usual we have provided slides to supplement our discussion.
You can find a copy of these slides on our website next to the audio icon for this call.
These slides will be archived on our website along with the transcript of today's call.
Any statements made during this call relative to management's expectations estimates or beliefs or otherwise state management's or the company's outlook plans or projections are forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those made in such statements.
Additional information on the factors that could cause our results to differ materially are contained in our SEC filings.
With that said I'll now turn the call over to Nick Pinchuk.
Nick? Thanks Leslie.
Good morning everyone.
We're going to follow the usual agenda for these calls.
I'll provide my perspective on our results on our various markets as well as on the progress we made during the fourth quarter and the year then Aldo will provide a detailed review of all the financials.
I believe the results in the quarter and throughout all of 2012 were encouraging and provide abundant evidence of advancements along our runways for growth and improvement.
Our EPS in the fourth quarter was $1.43 up from $1.27 in 2011.
That rise reflects an OpCo operating margin that improved to 14.8% along with a strong increase in operating income from financial services which rose to $29.3 million.
It all added up to a consolidated operating margin of 17.7% which compares to 16.3% in the prior year.
Sales in the quarter were $753.2 million a 2.5% organic increase before a slight offset of I guess about 20 basis points due to unfavorable foreign currency.
That gain does include a continuation of the generally favorable trends we've seen in our automotive repair sector and the Tools Group and in the Repair Systems &amp; Information Group.
So we've seen the automotive repair sector strong.
Now the 2.5% was somewhat less than what we've seen in the past periods.
That's reflective primarily of the increased headwinds from restricted military spending in the Commercial &amp; Industrial Group.
I think everybody's well aware of the situation that existed as we approached the year end and the fiscal cliff which by the way remains an overhang going forward.
We're still dealing with potential sequestration.
That uncertainty along with the generally reduced spending from the wind down of the troop deployments are what's behind the military weakness.
The fourth quarter did highlight the fluid and fragile environment we've seen in the worldwide economic picture and there was turbulence from place to place.
Overall however outside of the military contraction our year-over-year sales comparison in the quarter can be characterized as similar to past periods somewhat weaker in certain areas but within a normal range of variation the kinds you would expect to see from period to period.
So as always there are headwinds.
That's nothing new.
Europe difficulties have been there for some time but now we see a larger military contraction.
But there are positives as well: strength in our automotive repair sectors opportunity in emerging markets and progress in serving critical industries.
We're encouraged by the advancements being made along our defined runways for growth areas that we've identified as being decisive for our future: extending into critical industries building in emerging markets enhancing the franchise network and expanding in the garage.
Gains in each of these strategically important areas have enabled us to more than offset the various spots of weakness throughout 2012 and are testimony to the balance and the breadth of our coherent growths.
Along with the advancements in those areas of opportunity we're also seeing clear benefits related to our Snap-on Value Creation Processes a set of principles that we focus on every day to drive improvement in safety quality customer connection innovation and RCI.
You can see that in the encouraging results of the quarter.
You can also see the progress in the full year results a 4.6% organic sales gain overcoming a number of headwinds most notably Europe.
At the same time the full year OpCo operating margin rose to 13.9% an increase of 40 basis points in spite of nearly $14 million or a 50-basis-point impact from higher mark-to-market accounting adjustments related to changes in our share price.
So now let's take a look at the highlights of each of the segments.
The Commercial &amp; Industrial Group or C&amp;I -- or the Commercial &amp; Industrial C&amp;I Group is where we're bearing the brunt of both the European and military difficulties.
The impact is evident in the 6.2% organic sales decline after being up mid-single digits in the first 3 quarters of the year.
In spite of that sales decline however the operating margin at 11.6% was reasonably encouraging as we are seeing benefits from RCI across the group and further improvements at SNA Europe specifically in part because of the restructuring actions we've taken as the challenges of the European economies linger.
Sales in SNA Europe were down double digits compared to last year a somewhat weaker comparison than Q3 but not a clear indication of the changed environment.
As I mentioned the significant double-digit decline in military activity in our industrial division was clearly a much greater headwind than we've seen in the past couple of quarters.
On the other hand our industrial business did post gains in critical industries outside of the military.
We're extending our reach by developing new products and programs to specifically serve customers in sectors like aviation oil &amp; gas mining power generation and technical education.
We're gaining strategic position in each of those areas.
One of the real highlights of our expansion into critical industries this quarter and in fact every quarter of the year was the double-digit growth in Aviation &amp; Aerospace.
Importantly much of that growth is international from manufacturers to maintenance and repair and overhaul facilities and to a wide variety of flight operations.
And certainly no discussion of progress for us would be complete without mention of our Asia-Pacific operation.
Once again in the quarter we posted double-digit gains in the emerging market of that region broad increases.
Thailand was particularly strong.
Indonesia also contributed nicely.
The quarter was much the same story as it has been throughout the year.
We're building our presence across the region.
In both China and India clearly important markets our crucial undercar and equipment and hand tool product lines led the way with strong gains during the year.
In November this last November I was in China to attend the opening of our fourth plants at our site in Kunshan.
It's a state-of-the-art facility dedicated to undercar equipment for the region appropriate we believe given the substantial growth and opportunity that's available in that segment.
Last month I also attended a number of reseller and associate new year kick-off meetings in Asia.
I can tell you the enthusiasm regarding our expanding presence and regarding our product line is encouraging and it's contagious.
I believe it bodes well for our future as the repair wave rises in emerging markets.
Let's move to the Tools Group.
Another quarter of strong growth.
Organic sales for the group were up 9.3% with a similar rise in the U.S.
Operating margin in the quarter was 14.2% up 70 basis points.
The fourth quarter was a continuation of the progress we've made throughout 2012.
Enhancing the van channel has been a primary focus for quite some time and that focus along with the associated investments we've made has driven results.
Clearly one of the big advantages is our wholly-owned Financial Services company Snap-on Credit.
Aldo will talk in some detail about the positive financial results for the operations.
I'll just say by working closely with the Tools Group our financial arm has been instrumental in helping drive the van sales increases we saw throughout 2012.
We've had a string of gains in big-ticket items and much of that activity is enabled by Snap-on Credit.
But beyond the financial results there's other evidence of progress.
I often mention the internal metrics we track related to franchisee health.
They've been on a positive trajectory for some time.
That's more confirmation of a strengthening network.
And we've also seen external validation of our improved position in the network.
Entrepreneur Magazine recently published a ranking of top franchises with a focus on financial strength and stability growth rate and the size of the system.
Well we've moved up with Snap-on coming in at #26 out of the 500 top franchises.
Also in the quarter Franchise Direct listed Snap-on as #11 in its 2012 top 100 global franchise ranking.
And finally Franchise Business Review a leading research firm in franchising ranked us among the top 100 opportunities for veterans.
We like that.
I'll just add that in each of these listings Snap-on ranks ahead of all tool franchise systems.
When you couple these with awards for innovative new products that I highlighted last quarter the improvements are clear.
In January we also had our kick-off meetings in the U.S.
for the Tools Group.
I attended and I can tell you that among our team and our franchisees there was widespread optimism and enthusiasm just what you would expect given the progress of 2012.
Now let's go on to the Repair Systems &amp; Information Group or RS&amp;I.
Organic sales were up 2.9% while the operating margin at 22.9% was up 210 basis points.
The general weakness in Western Europe continues to have an impact on RS&amp;I because we do have a significant undercar equipment business in that region.
But importantly we saw more progress with strong gains for our undercar equipment lineup in the emerging Eastern European and Brazilian markets and we continue the upward trend in selling repair information and diagnostics products to independent shop owners and managers while at the same time our activity in the businesses that primarily serve OEM dealerships posted increases in essential diagnostics and tools programs.
For RS&amp;I all of these widespread positives more than offset the challenges of Europe and undercar equipment.
This past quarter we continued to see the benefits of our strategy to expand Snap-on's presence in the garage.
We highlighted that effort a number of years ago when we first put this portfolio together.
It's been reinforced since then with investments in innovation and it's paying off with winning products and improved positions.
Along those lines our new VERUS PRO launched this August has been a great addition lighter faster smarter.
It's added to our broad strong array of repair shop innovations handheld diagnostics undercar equipment and repair information.
And RS&amp;I is rolling all those products together into a cohesive and improved offering aimed directly at shop owners and managers.
And in the quarter there were a number of significant wins with national repair shop trains.
Our product bundle was a big factor in those wins.
Let's talk about fleets.
We're better able to support the broad vehicle mixes.
We've expanded our medium- and heavy-duty offering to accommodate a wider range.
Coupled with our already strong automotive offering our suite of products enabled fleet customers private government or utilities to more efficiently serve their varied vehicle lineups.
One recent note just this past quarter we enhanced our NEXIQ-branded heavy-duty diagnostic handheld to include a full-service scan capabilities for a variety of antilock breaking system.
It's all bundled together now in one place.
Obviously that's an important system in the fleet space.
It's been a well received enhancement to what was an already strong lineup.
Also on RS&amp;I Snap-on Business Solutions continues to find opportunities in near neighbor sectors outside the automotive space.
For example on heavy power equipment used in construction and agriculture for those industries our electronic parts catalog or EPC is proving to be an attractive productivity enhancer.
In the fourth quarter we launched a new EPC for a major global OEM in that adjacent space and our expansion in those segments provide an important opportunity and we're taking full advantage.
All in all RS&amp;I had a positive quarter innovative products and clear customer focus overcoming continuing headwinds and leading to strong profitability.
Well that's some of the highlights of the quarter.
2.5% organic sales increase somewhat less than prior quarters but that's largely reflecting the military.
Advancements along our runways for growth extending into critical industries building in emerging markets enhancing the van channel and expanding in the repair garage overcoming the headwinds.
And our Snap-on Value Creation Processes our focus on safety quality customer connection rapid continuous improvement in innovations author another quarter of improved profitability.
OpCo OI margin up to 14.8% and EPS of $1.43 representing a 12.6% increase from 2011.
Overall it was an encouraging quarter.
Now I'll turn the call over to Aldo for a review of the financials.
Aldo? Thanks Nick.
So our fourth quarter consolidated operating results is summarized on Slide 6.
Net sales of $753.2 million in the quarter increased 2.5% organically.
Continued higher sales in the Snap-on Tools Group and in the emerging markets of Asia along with higher sales of diagnostics and repair information products more than offset lower sales in the military and continued weakness in Europe.
For the full year 2012 net sales increased 4.6% organically.
Consolidated gross profit of $352 million increased $16.2 million from 2011 levels and gross margin of 46.7% improved 110 basis points from 45.6% last year largely due to savings from ongoing RCI initiatives and lower restructuring cost.
Operating expenses of $240.6 million were up $8.6 million from last year primarily due to higher volume-related and other expenses.
The operating expense margin of 39.1% in the quarter increased 40 basis points from 2011 levels.
Restructuring costs in the fourth quarter of last year totaled $4.4 million.
No restructuring costs were incurred in the fourth quarter of 2012.
For the full year however restructuring costs of $16.5 million were up $4.3 million year-over-year.
Operating earnings before Financial Services of $111.4 million in the quarter increased $7.6 million and as a percentage of sales improved 70 basis points from 14.1% last year to 14.8% this year.
Operating earnings from Financial Services of $29.3 million increased $7.2 million or 32.6% over prior year levels.
Consolidated operating earnings of $140.7 million in the quarter increased $14.8 million over 2011 levels and the operating margin of 17.7% improved 140 basis points from 16.3% a year ago.
Our fourth quarter effective income tax rate of 32% compared with 33% last year.
For the full year our effective income tax rate was 32.8% as compared with 33% for full year 2011.
Finally net earnings of $84.6 million or $1.43 per diluted share in the quarter compared to net earnings of $74.3 million or $1.27 per share last year.
Now let's turn to our segment results.
Starting with the Commercial &amp; Industrial or C&amp;I Group on Slide 7.
Fourth quarter sales of $275.6 million were down 6.2% organically from prior-year levels primarily due to double-digit declines in sales to the military and in our European-based hand tool business reflecting continued market weakness in that region.
These sales decreases were partially offset by sales gains in other critical industries and a double-digit increase in sales to customers in the emerging markets of Asia.
Gross profit in the C&amp;I group totaled $105 million in the quarter and gross margin of 38.1% improved 210 basis points from 2011 levels primarily due to lower restructuring cost and savings from ongoing RCI initiatives particularly in Europe.
Operating expenses of $73.1 million in the quarter were essentially flat with the prior year.
The operating expense margin of 26.5% increased 170 basis points from 24.8% last year primarily due to the lower sales.
As a result of these factors fourth quarter operating earnings of $31.9 million for the C&amp;I segment decreased $1.1 million from 2011 levels while the operating margin of 11.6% improved 40 basis points year-over-year.
Turning now to Slide 8 fourth quarter sales in the Snap-on Tools Group of $321.6 million increased 9.3% organically reflecting high-single digit sales gains across both the company's U.S.
and international franchise operations.
Gross profit of $135.8 million increased $11.9 million from 2011 levels.
Gross margin of 42.2% in the quarter compared with 42.3% last year.
Operating expenses totaled $90.2 million in the quarter and the operating expense margin of 28% improved 80 basis points from 28.8% last year largely due to benefits from sales volume leverage.
Operating earnings of $45.6 million in the quarter for the Snap-on Tools Group increased $6 million or 15.2% from 2011 levels and the operating margin of 14.2% increased 70 basis points from 13.5% last year.
Turning to the Repair Systems &amp; Information or RS&amp;I group shown on Slide 9.
Fourth quarter sales of $241.6 million increased 2.9% organically primarily due to low-single digit gains in both sales of diagnostics and repair information products and sales to OEM dealerships.
Gross profit totaled $111.2 million in the quarter and the gross margin of 46% increased 140 basis points from 44.6% last year primarily due to savings from ongoing RCI initiatives and lower restructuring cost.
Operating expenses totaled $55.8 million and the operating expense margin of 23.1% improved 70 basis points from 2011 levels reflecting benefits from sales volume leverage and contributions from ongoing RCI.
Fourth quarter operating earnings of $55.4 million for the RS&amp;I group increased $6.2 million or 12.6%.
The operating margin of 22.9% improved 210 basis points from 20.8% last year.
Now turning to Slide 10.
Fourth quarter earnings from Financial Services increased $7.2 million or 32.6% primarily due to continued growth of the on-book finance portfolio.
Originations of $165.6 million in the quarter rose 7% year-over-year reflecting both higher sales in our Snap-on tools segment and increased participation in our credit programs.
Moving to Slide 11.
Our quarter-end balance sheet includes $1.08 billion of gross financing receivables including $913 million from our U.S.
Snap-on Credit operation and $172 million from our international finance subsidiaries.
In the U.S.
$731 million or 80% of the financing portfolio relates to extended credit loans to technicians.
Since the beginning of 2012 our worldwide on-book financing portfolio has grown approximately $150 million.
Approximately $127 million of the expanded portfolio relates to the United States while $23 million is associated with growth at our international finance subsidiaries.
For 2013 we anticipate that the worldwide gross on-book finance portfolio will increase by approximately $80 million to $90 million over 2012 year end levels.
As for finance portfolio losses and delinquency trends these continue to be in line with our expectations.
Now turning to Slide 12.
Fourth quarter cash provided by operations of $102.9 million in 2012 increased $30.6 million from $72.3 million last year.
In the quarter we made a discretionary cash contribution of $12 million to our U.S.
pension plans.
This contribution was in addition to the $42.7 million of discretionary contributions made earlier this year.
Last year also in the fourth quarter we made a discretionary $48 million U.S.
pension contribution.
Capital expenditures of $19.9 million in the quarter and $79.4 million for the full year included the completion of a fourth factory at our Kunshan China location as well as continued investments across our operations which enhanced our capability and flexibility in providing products and services to our customers in a timely and complete manner.
As seen on Slide 13 days sales outstanding for trade receivables of 61 days compared to 58 days as of 2011 year end.
In constant dollars days sales outstanding increased by 1 day.
Inventories increased $13 million organically from 2011 year end levels primarily to support continued higher demand largely in the United States.
On a trailing 12-month basis inventory turns of 3.9x compared to 4.2x at 2011 year end reflective of the higher inventory.
Our year end cash position of $214.5 million increased $28.9 million from 2011 levels.
The year-over-year cash increase reflects higher levels of net income in cash generated from operations as well as $445.5 million of cash collections from finance receivables.
In the fourth quarter we also received cash proceeds of $27 million related to the sale at book value of an equity investment in a nonstrategic unconsolidated affiliate.
These cash increases were partially offset by the funding of $569.6 million of new finance originations dividend payments of $81.5 million capital expenditures of $79.4 million and share repurchases of $78.1 million.
Our net debt to cap ratio of 29.7% compares to 34.3% at 2011 year end.
In addition to our $215 million of cash and expected cash flow from operations we have more than $700 million in available credit facilities and our current short-term credit rating allows us to access the commercial paper markets should we choose to do so.
At year end no amounts were outstanding under any of these facilities.
This concludes my remarks on fourth quarter performance.
I'll now briefly review a few outlook items for 2013 as outlined in this morning's press release.
We anticipated that capital expenditures in 2013 will be in the range of $70 million to $80 million.
During 2013 we intend to make required contributions of $10.0 million into our foreign pension plans and $1.6 million to our domestic pension plans.
Depending on market and other conditions we may elect to also make discretionary contributions to our domestic pension plans.
Finally we anticipate that our full year 2013 effective income tax rate will be comparable to our 2012 rate.
With that I'll now turn the call back over to Nick for his closing thoughts.
Nick? Thanks Aldo.
Our fourth quarter was encouraging again.
Progress in the midst of European and military headwinds.
Results that bear the hallmarks of advancement along our runways for growth and improvement.
We recognize that this is a period of turbulence but we believe in the strength of our businesses and in the potential of our runways.
Enhancing the van network the health of our franchisees are reaching new levels and sales in that channel were up 9.3% in the quarter.
Extending to critical industries there are some strong headwinds in this space but we believe our strategic position is on the rise.
Expanding with repair shop owners and managers increases in diagnostics and information products and RS&amp;I OI margin up 210 basis points.
And building in emerging markets stronger physical presence another factory in China more products more distribution more sales.
And our Snap-on Value Creation Processes are driving improvements with OpCo OI margin reaching 14.8% in the quarter and coming in at 13.9% for the year both representing improved performance.
The fourth quarter and the full year are testimony to the capability of our team to execute and to the abundant opportunity for the growth inherent in Snap-on's fundamental strategic strengths.
And we believe that those advantages will continue to author ongoing positive trends as we go forward.
Before I close it's appropriate that I recognize Snap-on associates and franchisees around the world.
As usual many of you are listening to this call.
The positive performance of the fourth quarter and of the full year is a reflection of your capability and your dedication.
For your contributions to our past for your participation in our present and your commitment to our future you have my admiration and you have my thanks.
Now I'll turn it over to Augusta for questions.
Augusta? [Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from David MacGregor of Longbow Research.
This is actually Rachel Huber on for David.
Just in regard to the RS&amp;I margins was there something in particular or just the higher mix that contributed to the higher print this quarter and is that something that you guys are expecting to be repeatable in 2013? Actually the mix is -- 210 basis points the mix only contributed about 15 to 20 points.
The rest was a couple other things but RCI our Rapid Continuous Improvement Snap-on Value Creation Processes was the big winner there contributed 150 160 of those basis points.
That's straight improvement.
And is that something that you expect to continue into '13 then? Well -- and of course there was -- on top of that there was 50 basis points of restructuring that's what I -- so let me recap.
It was 15 points of -- 15 to 20 points of mix 50 of restructuring of lower restructuring then the 150 of RCI.
We expect RCI each and every quarter the amounts that are going to roll through by division by quarter are -- change and vary from place to place.
But we do consider that we will have good strong contributions every quarter from RCI.
Okay.
And then -- yes just going on to C&amp;I.
I don't know if you had broken this out at all.
How much of the decline did you attribute to military versus just general European weakness? Well military was the big piece the biggest piece of that.
So we haven't really broken it out in total but I think you can conclude that it was the lion's share of that -- European weakness was a piece of that.
And there were a couple of other divisions in there that go up and down from quarter to quarter but the military was the big mover.
In the quarter -- what happens in the military the fourth quarter is the strongest quarter of all.
Military fiscal year ends in for us anyway military ends in the third quarter -- military fiscal year ends in the third quarter.
People book business in the third quarter and right up to the end and then it comes out in the fourth quarter.
This year this didn't happen to as great an extent so there was a pretty big variance.
Our next question will come from David Leiker of Baird.
Research Division</strong> I guess I want to start off just to follow-up on the comments on the military just to make sure I heard something correctly here.
I think you said that your total corporate organic growth of 2.5% would have been in line with what you've seen in recent quarters excluding the military decline? That's what we said.
Research Division</strong> Did I hear that? Yes that's correct David.
If you took out the military you're looking sort of the same thing the same kind of quarter.
The military was just a big changer...
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on the Snap-on Credit I know it's not a big number it's not a big move but the delinquencies have been inching up here a little bit.
One of you give just a little color on that? And second have you done anything in terms of changing your reserving on that? I don't think there's anything in that regard.
It has inched up but you look at -- it's a kind of seasonal thing the fourth quarter people run into the holidays.
They tend to roll it up.
We look back at the last 4 years it inched up every period every quarter like this.
Maybe this is a little bit more.
I don't think it's anything significant.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly Nick and Aldo you guys you've got several years under your belts here of pretty significant business model improvement margin improvement.
If you take those 2 items what inning do you think we're in in terms of where you think you can take the business model and then secondly where you think margins can go? Well look I still think there's a lot of opportunity at Snap-on.
I think I've said this to you and many others when you walk around here you can see a lot of things that can be improved.
So I would say we're now in like the fourth inning or something like that.
We have a lot more runway in terms of Rapid Continuous Improvement and the Snap-on Value Creation Processes.
And we have said -- we have targeted that we will be at the mid-double digits which I think we define as mid-teens.
We're almost there.
I don't see a point in setting a new target but I also have said that I believe strongly I think our management team believes strongly in the quality the inherent strength of our position in terms of the brands we have the product we have the legions of loyal customers and the possibilities for coherent growth.
So we would be disappointed if we did not march ourselves to be among the highest rank of industrial companies in terms of profitability.
I allow you experts to figure out where that would be.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then if you look at the business model improvement you've found ways of selling more products through the van channel.
It looks like on RS&amp;I you're expanding beyond the traditional auto repair to other end markets.
In terms of driving that business model to new levels where do you think you are in that process? Well actually in terms of I think in terms of the Tools Group in terms of the van business we're hitting on all cylinders.
Those guys are doing very well.
Now I want to quickly give a caveat here like I do every call that I think that double-digit growth is probably not going to go on forever.
Well in fact it didn't.
It was 9.3% this quarter.
But we've said that the Tools Group will be on a 4% to 6% range.
I think that's more likely to be the long-term future of the Tools Group but still they are understanding how to reach more customers through productivity and how to sell more through different marketing.
They're doing that pretty well and I think they really know how to do it now.
And so it's just a matter of keeping it going.
In the RS&amp;I group as in the C&amp;I group we're focusing on a different customer base changing from a product focus to a customer focus and I would say in there we're like in the bottom of the second.
We still have a long way to go in both of those businesses.
Our next question will come from Liam Burke of Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Nick you talked about the finance driving the growth in the franchisee channel and how you would draw in more big-ticket items.
Could give us a little more detail on some of the other things that are driving this high-single digit low-double digit revenue growth here? Well sure.
Look you've got good growth in the big-ticket items like tool storage and the bigger -- when I say big-ticket Liam just to be clear I include high ticket diagnostic units like SOLUS Ultra and the VERUS PRO that I mentioned and then you've got hand tools which were up quite a bit in the quarter.
And so those that troika of products are doing pretty well in this group.
And that's this quarter.
In other quarters we've seen Power Tools come in there and be a big factor.
So maybe that quartet of product lines have moved forward and yes it's some of the special marketing like we talk about the past the Rock 'n Roll Express mobile display unit for tool storage has helped but other things about training programs for diagnostics and innovation around exciting hand tools that solve special problems that people get on the van and get very excited about.
I was just on a van ride in Burlington actually in a snowstorm and it's very interesting about the -- I ran into this one young guy who was just out of school and he said "I've become almost the senior tech in the house " And I said "Why?" And he said "Because I bought a SOLUS Ultra Snap-on SOLUS Ultra which is a diagnostic unit." And what he said was they had a shop unit there which was a competitor's.
It was shared by all the technicians and they had spent 4 days trying to solve a transmission problem in this house with one of these competitor units.
This guy bought one himself he invested in a Snap-on like a mid-range Snap-on unit.
He said "I plugged it into the car it told me what was wrong it told me how to fix it and it gave me the part number to order to fix it." He said he raised his status in the shop immensely.
And so that's the kind of thing that those kind of products are adding to the marketing that's driving some of our sales.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Aldo on the cash flow statement this year if I took net operating -- cash from operating activities backed out your CapEx and then netted your additions and collections of finance receivables you generated about $125 million in free cash compared to roughly negative cash flow of $95 million a year ago.
Is this a trend of positive cash flow generation now that most of the credit business has been bought in-house? Yes Liam.
Well one thing I just want to call your attention to because you're a little bit newer to the story.
Last year we did have in Q2 of 2011 an $89 million repayment in regard to settlement of a CIT arbitration matter.
So when you're looking at the full year cash flow that's something that impacted 2011 that we didn't have this year.
So it's one thing if you're looking at the full year column.
But now to answer your question the on-book portfolio as I mentioned earlier we expect will still grow $80 million $90 million in terms of 2013.
And though we don't provide guidance we'd like to call that out because we know that people have followed us and are trying to model the transition of the formerly-owned CIT portfolio to Snap-on.
That is largely behind us.
If you look at the chart you'll see that I believe there was about $53 million left at the end of the year that was owned by CIT and $11 million to $12 million of that is extended credit.
That is about the remainder of what transitions over to us.
So that is largely behind us.
Snap-on Credit will continue to use cash in 2013 but not nearly to the same rate as what it did in 2012 and 2011.
Our next question will come from Gary Prestopino of Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> In terms of -- and I always ask this with Europe.
In terms of the headwinds there it's been constant for quite a while.
But Europe's kind of moved out of the headlines here? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just wondering is it at least a stable decline or is it continuing to decline for you? Yes.
No it's pretty much -- I tried to have that come through in the remarks.
It's pretty much stable.
It's down a little bit.
The landscape in Europe is sort of -- to go back to a geometric concept it's not congruent but it's similar to what it was in the third quarter.
South is down double digits strong double digits the core is down single digits and the Eastern Europe is up.
Now that's the same in this quarter.
The difference in this quarter was the core was down a little bit more.
I think look France was down Denmark -- for us anyway France was down Denmark was down the U.K.
was down Norway was down so a few of those -- and when you look at the GDPs why? The U.K.
flattened out France is now negative Denmark is negative and so you can see it reflected in the GDP so it's kind of not surprising.
But when you're looking at saying well the third quarter versus the fourth quarter Europe was a headwind in both quarters but only slightly bigger in the fourth quarter.
So it's kind of stabilized as just one continuing pain.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One continuing pain.
Okay.
And did you mention just what year-over-year your emerging market revenue growth was? We did not mention that.
We said double digits actually but we didn't mention exactly -- we did -- it's double digits.
So we grow faster than the GDPs of the region.
We said that -- actually we got some -- normally we don't talk about places like Thailand and Indonesia but they were pretty good.
So we kind of highlighted them there.
Everybody always talks about India which was up nice and China and so on.
But really really we're getting -- we saw some nice broad growth there this year.
And like I said we opened a new factory so we can see our strength building stronger.
And if you were at the Reseller's Meetings which is like the Distributor's with several hundred resellers you would have been I think impressed with the enthusiasm they have there for our product because they see the repair wave rising.
It hasn't started yet because the installation of product is just starting.
Everything is new there and the repair is starting so they see themselves getting in on a ground floor something good.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Did you -- could you give us an idea of what percentage of your sales were coming from emerging markets? It's getting upwards close to 10% that kind of thing right now.
And like I said that's why I think that's -- they're underrepresented in our number now because our business really -- and when I say business I mean the broad industry that what we do hasn't really taken off in importance yet in that region.
I expect it to be a much bigger percentage of our total pie when that wave starts to rise.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That was my next question.
Like say on a 5-year basis what are your expectations for what percentage of sales would be coming from these emerging markets? Geez I don't know.
I don't want to do that.
I think you guys can figure that out.
We're growing faster than GDP.
We think we can continue that for a while.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Adam Brooks of Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Just a few questions here.
You mentioned in the Tools Group that eventually you trail down to that 4% to 6% range but it sounds like you could stay above that range for the next year.
So is that reasonable to assume? I did not say that.
I said that I expect it to be 4% to 6%.
I think they are managing the business superbly.
I think they are -- I whisper I think they are gaining position if not share.
But I would say that we still see it in that range.
When that happens I'm not going to speculate.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
But two on the military side can you give us a sense as a percentage of C&amp;I what that business is? Well I can give you a percentage.
Look we don't give -- I have resisted over the years giving out numbers for segments.
But I'll just do this.
Look they're part of the critical industries division the industrial division.
This is a $420 million business.
We've mentioned 5 or 6 segments in that business.
You can kind of split them up.
This is -- because we started the focus on military first this is one of the bigger ones and then you have to understand that the fourth quarter is the biggest of the quarters for that business.
You start to do that you can start to triangulate to roughly how big it is.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then real quickly just maybe a comment on cash flow for 2013 expectations as far as working capital? So working capital tends to be about 25%.
It was a little bit higher than that in terms of the sales revenue.
I think it was more like 25.9% in the quarter.
But it tends to be up and around that area.
Certainly there's always opportunities to improve working capital performance but I would suggest that I would use that ratio still going forward.
We'll go next to Richard Hilgert of MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on the delinquencies wanted to talk a little bit about C&amp;I and also a little bit about the military spending.
On the delinquencies the fourth quarter on the extended credit side in the U.S.
actually went up a little bit versus the fourth quarter of 2011.
Conversely on the internationals it went down a little bit in the fourth quarter versus the fourth quarter of 2011.
So I'm wondering -- that kind of seems counterintuitive given what's happening in Europe versus the recovery that's been going on for the last 3 years here in the U.S.
On the C&amp;I margin stuff in conjunction with the RCI initiatives C&amp;I has historically had the lowest margins of the group and I'm wondering if the increases that we've seen bringing it more closer to the hand tools business the traditional Snap-on Tools business I'm wondering if RCI is the factor here or if it's the mix of product or if it's a combination of both? And if that's the case if RCI actually gets the C&amp;I group closer to the hand tools margin.
And then the third issue the military spending.
I'm assuming obviously with all of the different budget talks and sequestration and everything in D.C.
that this was the impact there.
So I'm wondering if we get past the sequestration here over the next couple of months is there some pent-up demand maybe there in the military? And we might see second or third quarter actually doing better than expectations? Well I'll answer 2 of those and I'll let Aldo deal with the delinquency question.
Look well who knows what's going to happen in Washington.
And so I don't think anybody can speculate there.
We have -- our military business is biggest in the fourth quarter and the first quarter has historically been sort of the second biggest quarter in that regard.
So if we don't get this sequestration if it doesn't break loose we'll have a comparison that's not as tough as the fourth quarter but easier than the -- more difficult than the second or third quarters going out there.
But I don't know about pent-up demand.
We're in a funny time in the military and I don't think you can speculate there.
That's one possible future.
I suppose it's one possible future that everything gets solved and the floodgates open and things happen.
I'm not sure.
I think it's a you pick them type thing.
You can't really forecast that.
But that's a possibility.
It's a possibility.
I think the other thing you have to think about though is the sequestration and then on top of that there is the longer-term sort of bias associated with the troop wind down.
So you have some of that on top of it.
So you have those 2 things in play.
The military business is not dead though.
There is a future for it and we think it will be a good business going long-term.
That's certainly the big question.
Now in terms of the margins associated with the C&amp;I there's -- any quarter there's goes ins and goes outs and there's more profitable businesses and less profitable business so there can be a mix effect but you can generally -- if you're talking about long-term trajectory in C&amp;I you are talking pretty much about the idea of RCI and the question of volume leverage.
We say generally that our Snap-on value creation systems allow us to make more money at flat sales.
And then we get leverage on top of that.
So that helps the situation.
For example in Europe we've been lowering the breakeven.
So if we get more volume we get some leverage on that.
That drives up those numbers.
But I guess you would come back to saying lowering the breakeven is RCI-driven.
So the long -- the short answer to this is C&amp;I rises through RCI drive and we expect to over time to do just that.
Aldo will talk about the [indiscernible].
Yes Richard briefly on the portfolio performance.
As we said it's well in line with our expectations.
Generally speaking if you look at the -- a little bit of seasonality they tend to run up the 60-day delinquencies as they get closer to the Christmas holidays and payments slow a bit.
And you're correct it was 1.5% this year.
It was 1.4% last year.
If you go the year back it was 1.6%.
However we like to look at the allowance for doubtful accounts as we call it and that we look more at the life cycle of these loans because they tend to run 36 37 months.
And if you look of that it actually nominally improved.
It's still about 3% and that's the number that we've been talking about as we go on the road over the past year but actually slightly improves.
So the performance characteristics in the U.S.
portfolio are well within the range of our expectations.
As you point out on the international side we're still learning how to grow at risk-based analytics.
So we're a little bit more selective historically on the credit risk that we take in the international markets.
We're trying to flex and leverage some of the learnings we have in the United States.
However the United States is not the same as the United Kingdom or Australia.
There are differences but we're trying to introduce some of those lessons learned based on our years of experience here in the U.S.
We'll probably get a little bit more aggressive on some of our credit positions and grow sales but that will be a nominal effect on the gross portfolio in total.
So I hope that answers your question.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's very helpful.
Just one follow-up if I could please on the Financial Services portfolio.
Now that you've had a good couple of years of experience with this have you been able to roll out any particular programs or special financing deals that you wouldn't have been able to do having outsourced this in the past? Not really.
I'll say that in 2 ways.
One is we always have new programs but they're within the confines of working hand and glove with the Tools Group.
It always was that way before.
There's a little bit more energy and positive alignment because it's a wholly-owned operation yes.
But I'd say we're still working within the bounds of how we did it before.
Let me add to that.
I think having -- when you run businesses there's a big difference between having a wholly-owned business and a 50-50 joint venture.
As close as we worked with the 50-50 joint venture with Snap-on Credit we worked much closer with them when they became wholly-owned.
And so what Aldo says is correct.
From a financial structure point of view from a strictly financial antiseptic point of view we haven't changed really anything in terms of how we deal with the franchisees.
But the Tools Group is very cooperative with the -- I mean the credit company is very cooperative with the Tools Group to kind of package programs and time them and present them in ways which will excite the franchisees.
That kind of cooperation has increased at an extraordinary level and it's part of what is driving some of this success.
We'll go next to Dax Vlassis of Gates Capital Management.
Inc.</strong> So I'm just kind of wondering with -- basically you're at the finish line with bringing on the CIT portfolio.
You had the best -- one of the best free cash flow generation quarters in years in this last quarter.
The cash flow uses for CapEx and the CIT portfolio look low relatively speaking.
Are you contemplating now that you've sort of gotten past most of the bringing on the CIT business are you looking more strategically at acquisitions now? Is there any more of a focus on this from management? And also what about -- as far as the dividend policy goes can you discuss your current thinking on the current dividend? I know it was raised recently but looking at the stock price and looking at the yield it's sort of low relative to where you've been historically and given all the cash you're generating can you talk about rewarding shareholders by giving us more of it? Look I think our priorities for -- just let me state probably what I've said on another call that our priorities for use of cash are organic growth around capital expenditures.
I'm not married to the -- necessarily the capital expenditure numbers.
It can go up over the years.
Secondly the idea of organic growth around capital expenditures and those things working capital which Aldo talked about then things like M&amp;A which you are quite correct that we are kind of passing through the period where we've managed through the largest acquisition this company has ever made.
And so we have more energy to focus on things like acquisitions.
And so you can talk about that.
And then the dividends we raised the dividends 11.8% just in November and you might remember that we have paid a dividend every quarter since 1939 and we have never reduced it.
So our kind of dividend policy is make sure we can maintain perpetuity on the dividend and that's what we do.
And then finally there's share buyback for dilution and we think that matches our cash flow reasonably well.
We think with all those of things we can put our cash to work.
Inc.</strong> Yes I understand that but if you look at the OpCo sort of balance sheet I mean you're almost debt-free net debt-free at that entity and that's the way I look at it.
I know there's other ways other people look at it.
But if you look at that I mean you're woefully underleveraged and I'm just wondering if you guys don't have the capacity to make acquisitions you don't have a team you don't understand the economics of it? Because I mean at some point the lack of leverage on the OpCo it starts to diminish equity returns.
Actually actually...
Inc.</strong> I realize there's a point that it gets too much and it gets risky but I mean it's -- I mean you're not even at half a turn on the parent company cash flows so can you just address that? We understand that.
I think we understand.
I -- actually I think we look at it in many ways and one of the ways to look at it is that OpCo is debt-free and that would say that we have substantial firepower for acquisitions and I can assure you we know how to use such things.
We have people here who would've been quite experienced in acquisitions.
And so acquisitions...
Inc.</strong> Well experienced Nick and actively looking and finding deals and putting the other deals you haven't really proven the ability to do that.
I mean I haven't -- you haven't really done any.
I mean you could call CIT an acquisition but you already knew the business.
It was already -- you already managed it previously so you kind of knew what you were getting there.
I'm just wondering if you have the resources there and whether you're actively out in the marketplace looking or whether this is just an exercise if something comes along and somebody makes a phone call to you that you'll respond to it? Well I'm not actually -- I can assure you that we are -- we have the resources and it has our attention.
I'm not going to detail what we actually do how we're approaching this to you certainly.
But I can assure you that it's getting our attention.
And it appears that's all the time we have for questions today.
I'd like to turn the conference back to our presenters for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks Augusta.
For everyone a replay of the call will be available later today at snap-on.com.
We thank you for joining us today and for your interest in Snap-on.
Have a good day.
Bye.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Snap-on Incorporated 2013 First Quarter Results Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
And at this time I would like to turn the conference over to Leslie Kratcoski VP Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Mary and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to review Snap-on's first quarter 2013 results which are detailed in our press release issued earlier this morning.
We have on the call today Nick Pinchuk Snap-on's Chief Executive Officer; and Aldo Pagliari Snap-on's Chief Financial Officer.
Nick will kick off our call this morning with his perspective on our performance.
Aldo will then provide a more detailed review of our financial results.
After Nick provides some closing thoughts we'll take your questions.
As usual we have provided slides to supplement our discussion.
You can find a copy of these slides on our website next to the audio icon for this call.
These slides will be archived on our website along with a transcript of today's call.
Any statements made during this call relative to management's expectations estimates or beliefs; or otherwise state management's or the company's outlook plans or projections are forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those made in such statements.
Additional information and the factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are contained in our SEC filings.
With that I'd now like to turn the call over to Nick Pinchuk.
Nick? Thanks Leslie.
Good morning everyone.
As usual I'll start out by providing my perspective on the results on our various markets and on the highlights of the quarter.
Then I'll turn the call over to Aldo for a detailed review of the financials.
The results and the trends of our first quarter remained much the same as we've seen in the past few periods.
We once again had solid profit gains on a sales increase that came in the face of some continuing headwinds.
Our EPS in the quarter of $1.40 was up nearly 16% from last year's $1.21.
Our opco operating margin was 14.5% an increase of 120 basis points.
And our operating earnings -- and operating earnings from Financial Services was $30.5 million up $23.9 million in -- up from the $23.9 million in 2012.
On a consolidated basis the overall operating margin was 17.6%.
That compares to 15.7% in last year's first quarter.
Now we believe that these increased profits clearly demonstrate the benefit being driven by our Snap-on value-creation processes the set of principles and tools we apply every day to drive improvement with a focus on safety quality customer connection innovation and rapid continuous improvement or RCI as we call it.
They help us move down our runways for improvement and they are driving results.
Related to the sale -- related to sales we're up in the quarter by 1.5% organically before a negative impact from foreign currency of I guess 60 basis points.
There are of course always differences from period to period.
But from my perspective the big picture is similar to the last quarter.
We're seeing reasonable growth in our businesses serving the Automotive Repair sector in the Tools Group in the Repair Systems &amp; Information group -- or Repair Systems &amp; Information or the RS&amp;I group.
At the same time there's an offset to the -- to these generally favorable conditions in those businesses due to the dual headwinds that are concentrated in Commercial &amp; Industrial or the C&amp;I group.
Those headwinds restricted military spending and the overall turbulence in Europe were the principal factors in the C&amp;I sales decline.
Importantly our balanced approach to driving advancement in those areas that we've identified as being decisive to our future overcame the headwinds and challenges.
Our focus on expanding into critical industries building in emerging markets enhancing the franchise channel and expanding in the garage has authored ongoing year-over-year gains for the past few years despite some challenging macros.
The varied opportunities -- available thoughts along those declined run rates create our ability to offset the continuing headwinds.
And in this quarter we saw particular strength in the critical industries of natural resources and aerospace continued gains with diagnostics and repair information products to independent repair shop owners and managers and a strong uptick in activity with automotive OEM dealerships especially related to essential diagnostics.
Now let's go on to some discussion of the segments.
As I mentioned the C&amp;I group is where we see the largest impact from the headwinds of military spending in Europe.
Similar to last quarter those main headwinds resulted in an organic sales decrease of 6.3%.
One of the highlights in the quarter however was the 11.5% operating margin for the group.
That represents increase of 130 basis points more than overcoming the impact from the volume shortfall with operating improvements driven by Snap-on value creation.
Speaking to that improved profit margin our European hand tool business SNA Europe was a significant contributor.
Over the past few years we've dedicated a fair amount of restructuring to that operation and those investments along with some strong RCI activity are paying off.
SNA Europe actually raised its profits year-over-year despite high-single-digit sales -- despite the high-single-digit sales decline that was similar to last quarter.
Clearly the overall environment in Europe remains challenged.
So the rise in profitability was a big help and represents great progress.
Our Industrial business was -- which was once again impacted by the military contractions saw gains in other critical industries like aviation and natural resources.
Based on the domestic growth in oil and gas industry you might imagine we have significant potential in serving those customers.
And we did see progress in that segment.
We've expanded our large tool offering and developed new special tool applications including tethered tools for use at height.
And we recently kicked off a new program to call on key customers out in the oil and gas field with large specialized trucks loaded with an array of tools specifically for those unique oil and gas applications.
We're also working together with fuel service operations to outfit their maintenance trucks with the unique tool kits that match the requirements at these large sites.
One more point on our efforts in oil and gas it's a global opportunity.
You can see that with some of the significant wins we had in the quarter outside the U.S.
in places like Latin America and North Africa.
See overall we can see our efforts in natural resources coming together building traction in that important industry.
We also saw a gain in the critical aviation and aerospace sector.
Hereto we have uniquely designed vans mobile aviation technology labs calling on customers touring the country visiting sites providing hands-on demonstration of our product line for those special applications from tool control units and software to power tools to hand tools and specialty toolkits.
Whether we access those customers with these mobile labs or with stores in MRO facilities or with product catalogs integrated within the customer's individual purchasing systems we are serving those customers more frequently and more effectively.
And it's all driving the progress and the progress you can see in this critical sector -- in that critical sector.
Finally in C&amp;I I'll speak about Asia/Pacific.
It was a mixed period.
We were up in China across all our product lines and in India.
Elsewhere activity was off and we didn't get the overall increase we've normally seen across the region.
But what we know and what we are confident in is that we are building both the physicals and position in the emerging markets of Asia.
I've said it many times the presence in the physicals that's what's most important in this region.
I mentioned last time we opened a fourth plant at the Kunshan complex.
This one's dedicated to under-car equipment.
With those new capabilities we're launching new lifts both mid-tier scissors models that serve the OEM and higher-end shops across Asian markets and lower cost two-post products that are important in the emerging markets for the developing independent repair shop segment.
I was just in Asia last week and I saw some of the early production at that new factory and the product looks great.
Across Asia we've been establishing our position with a product line at the super-premium level growing at top-end shops.
Now as we expand with added physicals we're able to broaden that offering to serve independent garages and larger chains with mid-tier tire changes wheel balancers and our handheld diagnostics units which continue by the way to add content and vehicle coverage.
As you know we have a state-of-the-art engineering center in Kunshan and that team is growing becoming better able to help localize under-car and diagnostics products.
We have more local talent supporting growth in the region with a focus on new products developed specifically for those markets.
Now on to the Tools Group.
Sales were up 3.7% with a 14.4% operating margin about 20 basis points below last year but a strong absolute level.
The growth wasn't as robust as we've seen in recent periods but it's not a surprise that the pace didn't continue.
Importantly we don't believe there's been any significant change in the overall market.
Now there were a number of factors early in the period including the lingering impact from superstorm Sandy and perhaps some pause as the tax increases were digested at the beginning of the year.
But the year-over-year comparison got better each month of the quarter so the trends are good.
The strength of our van channel is evident in the numbers and in the trends.
Our franchisee health metrics continue to be favorable.
The progress of our franchisee opportunity recently -- and the progress of our franchise opportunity recently received additional validation when the Franchise Business Review ranking was announced by the International Franchise Association.
Snap-on was listed among the top large networks improving our ranking again this year.
The importance of this recognition is that it's based solely on franchisee satisfaction and independent survey in areas like training support operations and financial opportunity.
We believe it's convincing testimony to the growing strength of the network.
New and innovative products have been one of the keys to our progress in the Tools Group.
In one recent example we launched the FLL80 ratchet to build upon the success of our innovative extended reach line.
This 3/8-inch drive ratchet has a total length of 17.5 inches.
It includes the strength of our Dual 80 technology.
It connects with our technicians customers for making their work easier as they face ever-growing challenges related to tighter spaces and to shrinking accessibility.
That new ratchet is long.
It's the longest in the industry and it delivers superior strength and durability.
It delivers the superior strength and durability always expected from Snap-on.
Our great new products aren't restricted to hand tools.
Just this past quarter we took our award-winning VERUS PRO handheld unit to the U.K.
It was a success in the United States and that momentum has continued internationally where that diagnostic unit has been extremely well received.
So franchisee help survey gains innovative new product.
We believe they're all testimony to the progress that's being made in enhancing the van network one of our strategic decisive runways.
I move now to the RS&amp;I group.
Sales in the quarter were up organically 9.3% and the operating margin of 23% expanded by 150 basis points.
Throughout last year we spoke about the growth of our repair information and diagnostics products with independent repair shop owners and managers.
That happened again this quarter.
But this quarter the overall growth rate also got a real boost by increased activity in essential diagnostic tools for OEM dealerships.
For independent shops the growth is being led by new handhelds better and easier to use.
And by Repair Information Products helping technicians fix the car faster.
One of these is the new VERUS PRO full-function unit which I just mentioned.
It's just received more recognition the Best New Product Award as voted by the -- by Automotive Service Professionals at the recent Vision Hi-Tech Training and Expo an event which is attended by nearly 3 500 industry participants.
We're building our presence in the garage but not just at the high end or just in automotive diagnostics.
This quarter we launched with great reception our new entry-level handheld diagnostic unit the Blue-Point MICROSCAN 3.
It's an upgrade from the previous versions and it includes a larger screen and touch capability for added efficiency.
With its basic onboard scanning function it's another great entree product helping to make new technicians become Snap-on customers for life.
And outside automotive in heavy duty our Pro-Link iQ Diagnostic Unit has been upgraded.
Additional repair data parameters and engine test functions with expanded coverage of engines transmissions and breaks all while serving an ever-growing number of models and units.
Outside of the independent automotive space our Snap-on Business Solutions and equipment solutions businesses which serve OEM dealerships are also expanding Snap-on's presence in the garage.
Just this quarter we added a new electronic parts catalog -- we added new electronic parts catalog customers in adjacent sectors industries like motorcycles and power sports.
And this goes along with the increased essential diagnostic programs for automotive OEM dealerships that I already mentioned.
When we brought together the various businesses that now comprise RS&amp;I several years ago we believed we could leverage their capabilities to better serve repair shop owners and managers.
And progress along that runway is evident in our results.
Well that's the segments.
I'll conclude by sharing one final highlight.
Every year in the first quarter we hold an RCI competition that brings together teams from across the corporation to share best practices and successes in moving down our runway for improvement.
In February we had 34 teams present their story.
The day always concludes with dinners -- with a dinner where awards are presented with much excitement.
It's quite competitive.
And this year the champion was a team from our Kunshan facility Kunshan China.
We believe the enthusiasm of that event and it was evident.
And the fact that a team from China was the winner is a great indicator of the depth and the reach of RCI and Snap-on.
It's the foundation of our ongoing improvement and it is strong.
Well that's our first quarter.
Continuing headwinds offset by gains in important areas diagnostics and information for repair shop owners and managers essential tools for vehicle OEMs and dealerships and extensions in aerospace and natural resources.
When paired with Snap-on value creation the sum of it all is that opco OI is up 120 basis points a significant and encouraging performance.
Now I'll turn the call over to Aldo.
Aldo? Thanks Nick.
Our first quarter consolidated operating results are summarized on Slide 6.
Net sales of $741.7 million in the quarter increased 1.5% organically.
Higher sales to OEM dealerships increased sales of diagnostics and repair information products and continued higher sales of the Snap-on Tools Group more than offset lower sales to the military and ongoing weakness in Europe.
Consolidated gross profit of $356.9 million increased $9.2 million from 2012 levels and gross margin of 48.1% improved 80 basis points largely due to savings from ongoing rapid continuous improvement or RCI initiatives.
Operating expenses of $249.1 million decreased $1.1 million and the operating expense margin of 33.6% improved 40 basis points from 2012 levels.
Total restructuring cost of $2.9 million in the quarter compared with $4 million last year.
Operating earnings before Financial Services of $107.8 million increased 10.6% and as a percentage of sales improved 120 basis points from 13.3% last year to 14.5% this year.
Operating earnings from Financial Services of $30.5 million increased $6.6 million or 27.6% over prior-year levels.
Consolidated operating earnings of $138.3 million increased 13.9% over 2012 levels and the operating margin of 17.6% improved 190 basis points from 15.7% a year ago.
Our first quarter effective income tax rate was 31.9%.
We continue to expect that our full year 2013 effective tax rate will be comparable to our 2012 full year rate of 32.8% but this quarter's rate benefited from the retroactive extension of the federal research tax credit and certain other business tax provisions included in the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 which you'll recall was signed into law on January 2 of this year.
Finally net earnings in the quarter of $82.8 million or $1.40 per diluted share compared to net earnings of $71 million or $1.21 per share last year representing a 15.7% increase in diluted earnings per share.
Now let's turn to our segment results.
Starting with Commercial &amp; Industrial or C&amp;I group on Slide 7 sales of $266.4 million were down 6.3% organically from 2012 levels.
The decrease was primarily due to double-digit decline in sales to the military and a high-single-digit sales decline in our European-based hand tools business as a result of ongoing market weakness in that region.
Gross profit in the C&amp;I group totaled $99 million in the quarter and gross margin of 37.2% improved 160 basis points primarily due to the savings from ongoing RCI initiatives particularly in Europe partially offset by $2 million of higher restructuring costs.
Operating expenses of $68.4 million in the quarter declined $4.4 million from 2012 levels.
The operating expense margin of 25.7% increased 30 basis points from 25.4% last year primarily due to the lower sales.
This was partially offset by $3.4 million of lower restructuring costs.
As a result of these factors first quarter operating earnings of $30.6 million for the C&amp;I segment increased $1.4 million from 2012 levels and the operating margin of 11.5% improved 130 basis points from 10.2% last year.
Turning now to Slide 8.
First quarter sales in the Snap-on Tools Group of $327.3 million increased 3.7% organically reflecting increases across both U.S.
and international franchise operations.
Gross profit of $143.9 million increased $4.9 million from 2012 levels and the gross margin of 44% compared with 43.9% last year.
Operating expenses totaled $96.7 million in the quarter and the operating expense margin of 29.6% increased 30 basis points from 29.3% last year.
Operating earnings of $47.2 million for the Snap-on Tools Group increased $1.1 million and the operating margin of 14.4% compared with 14.6% last year.
Turning to the Repair Systems &amp; Information or RS&amp;I group shown on Slide 9.
Sales of $246.1 million increased 9.3% organically primarily due to a double-digit gain in the sales to OEM dealerships and a mid-single-digits gain in sales of diagnostics and repair information products.
Gross profit totaled $114 million in the quarter.
Gross margin of 46.3% decreased 90 basis points from 47.2% last year primarily due to a shift in the sales mix that included higher volumes of lower gross margin essential tool and facilitation products to OEM dealerships partially offset by savings from ongoing RCI initiatives.
Operating expenses totaled $57.5 million and the operating expense margin of 23.3% improved 240 basis points from 2012 levels.
Again primarily due to contribution from sales volume leverage including benefits from the shift in sales mix as well as savings from ongoing RCI initiatives.
First quarter operating earnings of $56.5 million for the RS&amp;I Group increased 16.3% and the operating margin of 23% improved 150 basis points from 21.5% last year.
Now turning to Slide 10.
First quarter earnings from Financial Services increased $6.6 million or 27.6%.
Originations of $171.9 million in the quarter rose 10% year-over-year.
Moving to Slide 11 our quarter-end balance sheet includes $1.1 billion of gross financing receivables including $932 million from our U.S.
Snap-on credit operation and $169 million from our international finance subsidiaries.
In the U.S.
$745 million or 80% of the financing portfolio relates to extended credit loans to technicians.
Excluding $5.7 million of unfavorable currency impacts our worldwide on-book financing portfolio grew approximately $23 million in the quarter.
For the 2013 full year we continue to anticipate that the gross on-book finance portfolio will increase by approximately $80 million to $90 million over 2012 year-end levels.
As for finance portfolio losses and delinquency trends these continue to be in line with our expectations.
Now turning to Slide 12.
Cash provided by operations of $75.7 million in the quarter increased $10.7 million from $65 million last year reflecting higher levels of net earnings as well as net changes in operating assets and liabilities.
This quarter we made cash contributions of $5.3 million to our U.S.
pension plans including $5 million of discretionary contributions.
Capital expenditures of $14.7 million in the quarter compared with capital expenditures of $21.8 million last year.
For the full year we continue to expect that capital expenditures will be in the range of $70 million to $80 million.
Turning to Slide 13 days sales outstanding for trade receivables of 61 days compared to 61 days as of 2012 year-end.
Inventories increased $3.1 million organically from 2012 year-end levels.
And on a trailing 12-month basis inventory turns of 3.9x were unchanged from 2012 year-end levels.
Our quarter-end cash position of $213.6 million reflects the funding of $144.4 million of new finance receivables dividend payments of $22.1 million share repurchases of $21.7 million in the quarter and capital expenditures of $14.7 million.
These uses of cash were largely offset by cash generated from operations including higher levels of net income and $122.5 million of cash from collections of finance receivables.
Our net-debt-to-cap ratio of 29.5% compares to 29.7% at 2012 year-end.
In addition to our $214 million of cash and expected cash flow from operations we have more than $700 million in available credit facilities and our current short-term credit rating allows us to access the commercial paper markets should we choose to do so.
At quarter end no amounts were outstanding under any of these facilities.
This concludes my remarks on our first quarter performance.
I'll now turn the call over to Nick for his closing thoughts.
Nick? Thanks Aldo.
Let me just summarize my perspectives on the quarter.
We had the headwinds in Europe and the military.
We had gains in vehicle repair and critical industries which more than offset the continuing challenges.
But what I view as most significant is that we believe we've strengthened our position along our decisive runways enhancing the van channel.
The network is stronger and you clearly get that impression when you meet with the franchisees.
And franchisee turnover was down again.
Expanding with vehicle repair shop owners and managers our diagnostics and information products have never been more powerful or better received.
Extending to critical industries you can see our connections with aerospace and natural resources customers growing.
And building in emerging markets our fourth factory in Kunshan is coming to light and our Asian engineering center is growing in effectiveness.
Our strength increased in each of these decisive areas and we believe it's that progress which is most important and ensures our continued advancement.
This quarter also clearly demonstrated gains along our runway for improvement progress propelled by the Snap-on value-creation processes.
They have become part of our corporate everyday culture and you can see it in the numbers Opco operating margin of 14.5% up 120 basis points; and EPS of $1.40 rising despite the challenges.
We believe that the energy of Snap-on value creation and the strengthening of our positions in the 4 areas of strategic importance will enable our team to continue on its encouraging trend as we move through 2013 and beyond.
Now finally before I conclude it's appropriate that I recognize Snap-on franchisees and associates.
As usual I know many of you are listening.
Your enthusiasm your capability and your dedication made our first quarter possible.
For your extraordinary contribution to our performance you have my congratulations.
And for your continuing commitment to your team you have my thanks.
Now I'll turn the call over to Mary for questions.
Mary? [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
How much forward visibility do you have on this military order book? And you'd indicated it was down double-digits.
So I'm just wondering if that's kind of the pace that's expected over the balance of the year? Yes.
But what happens is is that the base shrinks.
I think I said in the fourth quarter -- we don't have the greatest visibility.
We know that the military isn't the most robust of businesses.
Whether we have visibility or not it's kind of -- you read any paper or anything like that you see both sequestration causing uncertainty around the Department of Defense and you see the fact that troops are coming home.
The difference there is David is that -- and I think I did say this in the fourth -- in the last conference call the fourth quarter is our biggest quarter the first quarter is our next highest and then it reduces as we go to the second and third quarter.
And then the second and third quarter last year as the world progressed we were already seeing some sort of contraction.
So contractions are liable to be big.
In fact they were a little bit bigger in the first quarter than it was on a percentage basis than the fourth quarter but the base is smaller.
So we would expect the impact to somewhat reduce -- attenuate I would say.
So is the -- so you're still expecting to be down maybe double-digits but it becomes a less consequential part of the business is what you're saying? Correct.
And I've sized this for people.
People have asked how big it is and the -- well we don't give guidance by segments.
Or what we've said is is that the -- it's part of the industrial business the critical industries which is roughly give or take $400 million a little bit over $400 million business.
And we've identified 5 6 segments in that business the critical segments in that business and this is one of the bigger ones.
So you can kind of chop them up into 5 or 6 pieces and say okay this is one of the bigger ones and calendarize it like I said fourth biggest; first next biggest; and then second and third.
That kind of gives you some directional guidance and that's what I see coming on.
We don't have the greatest visibility.
And any -- much of our business is in terms of backlog.
So...
On the RS&amp;I business I guess it sounds like the facilitation business has come back a little bit and that was the source of the pressure on the gross margin in that segment? Is the facilitation business back in somewhat of a permanent way now? Or how should we think about the mixed dynamics in that segment going forward? Yes.
Let me give you a couple of thoughts.
One is strictly -- you have it right.
But strictly speaking the facilitation business in that business is sort of like a distribution business.
We're speaking -- that's where we offer distribution services for OEM dealerships.
You're appointed by Toyota or somebody else to kind of be their go-to supplier for a wide variety of products for the dealerships for their dealership network.
That's not what we're referring to here.
We're referring to the other side of that what we call EQS business which is essential diagnostics where an OEM manufacturer says I'd like to roll out either a hard tool -- I said diagnostics but any essential tool either a hard tool or a diagnostics a laptop for a specific make of car -- and says Snap-on I'd like you to develop -- help us develop it and roll it out to our distribution -- well help roll it out to our dealerships.
And what happened here is we got a couple of those products -- we got a couple of those programs in place now that are rolling and that nurtures this business.
It does tend to be lumpy.
So you can -- you get an award it says -- some manufacturer Rolls-Royce says I'd like to rollout -- Rolls-Royce doesn’t have many dealerships but let's say Toyota or somebody says I'd like you to roll out to my dealerships and you do it and it takes you 5 quarters.
And then there's no -- there isn't a program so you have to replace it with another program.
So it can be lumpy.
Overlaid on top of that though David is whether the OEMs themselves are feeling robust or more favorable.
And I think -- actually I think the 2013 forecast in North America are for what? Must be a 5% increase in the auto industry? So a 15.1% to 15.7% or something like that? So I mean it’s a small increase.
So I think they're a little bit more positive here.
So we're seeing little positive news there.
Plus on top -- overlaid on top of this lumpy business.
Did that help you a little bit? Okay.
The last question -- yes that does help.
Last question I guess just pertains to possible acquisitions.
And I guess the question is… What acquisition? Say that again please.
Yes.
The last question just has to do with acquisitions and I guess the question is just how much leverage would you be willing to undertake in support of an acquisition? Oh I don't know if I'm -- I don’t know if I want to necessarily speak about that on a call or in this kind of situation.
I'd just offer that -- if you look at our… Because I'm just wondering if there was softening [ph].
Credit [indiscernible] and you look at our operating business we had quite a bit of powder available.
So I think that's sufficient to say that.
I think those questions David always depend on the particular opportunity that's there.
It's kind of a happenstance.
One of the things -- we have capability in-house who knows how to acquire because we have people who have experience in this.
We have -- I know we have a great integration team available.
We are reviewing an ongoing list of possibilities and we know we have ammo.
So I think we would adjust to any kind of situation.
So I wouldn't want to pen myself in in that regard.
And we'll take our next question from David Leiker with Baird.
Research Division</strong> Couple of things.
Let's start with the Tool business.
And Nick you had -- and Aldo you had talked about carryover impact from Sandy and payroll tax increase having an impact.
Can you characterize on an exit rate what type of growth you might have been seeing? And I don't want to get bogged down in monthly numbers at all but were you 0 to 3 to 6? Or some characterization there of how you ended...
I don't want to speak like that but I would -- it's hard for me to characterize but let me try it this way.
You and I have talked spoken many times about this and I think I've said on every conference call that we have had over the last -- I don't know more than 2 years when the Tools Group is rolling double-digits I have cautioned everyone that I don't think that continues.
I think we hold to our 4% to 6% but then there's the question of how fast is the deceleration.
Right? I think.
And I think everybody recognized that it probably can't grow at double-digits forever and so how does that transition occur? And that was the $64 000 question.
And I think given -- I would just talk -- and this is speculation and so on but I would say if we didn't see the lingering effects of Sandy which we know is a factor because we know Middle Atlantic was down and there were other places in the regions that were down but if we didn't see that and if we didn't see what I would consider -- I can't document this but what seemed to be a pause associated with -- it might have been the payroll tax it might have been other things around -- it was kind of like a boundary layer when we went over '12 to '13.
I think we would have seen a more cushioned deceleration let's say.
If that helps.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So do you think we're… More expectable would have been more expectable.
I think people had certain expectations around those things and I think this would have been a decelerated quarter.
But it would have been more cushions less abrupt.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what kind of numbers did you see in the U.S.
versus the international markets for the business? Well the U.S.
-- international was below the -- I mean international was above the U.S.
because the U.S.
is where we saw the impact of Sandy and the -- but the international business was also decelerated somewhat as well.
So I mean they were -- but generally the U.S.
was down more than -- decelerated faster than international.
Research Division</strong> So from your perspective then it sounds like we've more quickly than expected guidance to sport a 5% or 4% to 6% kind of range going forward? Well I don't want to say that I expected that.
I mean I don't -- I never knew how we would go into that.
I'd simply say that I think we have an event.
We had some boundary layer conditions at the end of last year and certainly the beginning of -- mostly the beginning of this year that tended to what I want to say steepen or heighten the deceleration.
And I still think 3.7% isn’t chopped liver I would offer.
And so we are not -- if I look at the 4% to 6% myself I would say look we always said we'd grow at 4% to 6% over time.
We said 3.7% is reasonably inside -- a standard deviation of that so it’s the kind of variation you'd see around those numbers.
So I'm not so surprised about the 3.7%.
I'm simply offering that in this particular period if we didn't have the boundary layer we probably would have seen somewhat softened -- a softer change.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the RS&amp;I side when you look at the minority interest there at Mitchell 1 I'm suspecting that Mitchell 1 was a very strong performer there for you? Yes it was.
It was.
Great performance yes.
Research Division</strong> Is that something that's tied to these roll out on the essential diagnostics? Or is that something more structural that can grow faster? No.
Mitchell one -- let me just parse between these 2 things.
I mean make my comment about Mitchell 1.
Mitchell 1 has been actually part of our -- been a good success story for some time and it expanded that success in the first quarter.
And that is not related to the essential diagnostics.
Essential diagnostics is with OEM dealerships.
This is fundamentally with independent dealerships and they just seem to be growing their position with independent dealerships.
They're getting better at what they do and the dealerships are recognizing it and they're embracing it more.
Now when you talk about the minority interest there's a special wrinkle -- that I might want Aldo to comment...
Yes David.
Aldo.
Just -- you're correct that Mitchell 1 was a larger contributor and 15% of Mitchell 1 is owned by outside parties.
So there's a little bit more of an elimination in equity earnings for that.
You'll also recall that in Q4 Snap-on divested a non-strategic entity.
It was a legacy investment that was part of the ProQuest acquisition.
So the earnings from that are no longer in equity earnings.
So that also accounts for that lower amount that you see.
Research Division</strong> And then on Mitchell 1 just one more item there has this been driven by a change in the product upgrading in the product offering or more effective marketing? Or just normal market recognition over time? Actually I'd say both.
I think we did change the product.
I want to say 6 7 months ago we changed to ProDemand.
We changed to ProDemand which was an upgrade kind of a new model if you will of repair information.
A lot better navigation same great database that's wider than anybody else and terrific but also better navigation.
People really have appreciated that.
And so that's one.
Two is our marketing has been better.
We've driven customer connection into Mitchell 1 pretty effectively.
So they're out constantly.
They've got a pretty robust process looking at the field and getting feedback saying how can we improve? So they've kind of got this ongoing improvement activity that's actually I think pretty good for a software business that's overlaying on top of the sort of upgrades and the software.
They're actually improving it based on what the customers are telling them and we never had that before.
So we're doing better at that.
And then thirdly we're expanding a little bit our reach into heavy duty and other places.
So we've got a couple of other non-automotive segments in there.
So all 3 of those things are in a cocktail and it's been doing pretty well.
And when it came together this quarter with the sort of diagnostic information products the repair shop owners and managers that went up and we paired it with a pretty robust quarter for -- we've been kind of carrying the OEM dealerships for several quarters.
You might remember last year's numbers were like 0.5 2.9 2.7 in RS&amp;I.
Now we're up pretty well because we've got -- we're hitting on more like oil cylinders.
We're still carrying 25% of European business with that business.
And one of the things that happened was that SBS the parts catalog business got out from under the consolidation of the dealerships.
That was an ongoing tail.
We were even receiving some of the impact last year.
That stopped now.
So that's back to some upward movement.
And we'll take our next question from Gary Prestopino with Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Nick can you -- when did you start seeing this military business slide? I'm trying to get at -- where are we at? Are we at the anniversary...
No we started to see it I think -- I wanted to see -- we started to see it sort of in the middle of the second quarter third quarter last year like mostly the third quarter we started to see it roll.
Third quarter was weak but it was a smaller base.
It makes -- I don't think it made scrutiny in the third quarter even though it wasn't good for us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So really the fourth quarter year-over-year we should see -- that's where it kind of anniversaries then right? Third quarter I'd say too.
I'd say.
But the fourth quarter clearly the big anniversary.
So -- yes that's right.
That's right.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Have you been seeing the declines increase quarter-over-quarter or… Yes it increased some but not -- I would -- arithmetically it's a greater increase in the second quarter as a percent of a smaller base than the fourth quarter but I would tend to say that's within the range of government work.
You know what I mean? In the range of a variation that you might see on this kind of thing.
So I guess it's pretty much the same decline.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question is is the portfolio built to the point now where it's going to really mimic the growth in the Tools Group? Yes.
This is Aldo Gary.
I think you have that correct.
There's still a small piece of tailwind that we'll pick up from CIT but as you can see on the chart the extended credit portfolio owned by CIT and managed by us is down to less than $10 million.
So going forward it'll mirror the growth in Snap-on Tools.
But just recollect that it -- Tools the portfolio underwrites more big ticket items.
So within the Tools Group you can sometimes get a little bit of variation in the amount of big-ticket items that they sell as opposed to the lower-priced items which tend to be underwritten by the franchisees themselves.
So you get a little bit of noise quarter-to-quarter.
But long run it should move in concert.
And we'll take our next question from Richard Hilgert with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask a little bit more about the margins in the C&amp;I Group for the quarter.
Looking back over the past year we've been in that mid-11% range since the quarter of last year but the first quarter of last year it was a lot lower.
Was there anything special in that first quarter a year ago that had the margins down? No I don't think so.
I think generally we tend to get seasonality around first -- at different quarters.
We don’t have great seasonality in sales.
But sometimes you'll get OI seasonality because of -- as you open up a year you'd be spending on kick-off type things.
So you get out you have distributors you have people you meet you have new programs and you tend to roll them out at the first of the year.
So often time that's an overhang on these -- of those types of quarters.
I'm not saying it happens every year but it happened in many years at C&amp;I because I used to run C&amp;I.
So we think what happened in the C&amp;I is this.
You've got what? Is it 130 basis points up? And I'd say what 40 basis points is due to lower restructuring.
And then I think you can put down the rest to RCI.
And the reason there is is because when you've got a division that's having difficulty on sales like SNA Europe or -- you tend to be -- put your nose to the grindstone at this stuff even though it's a way of life.
Every place in the corporation they tend to push hard.
You tend to spend restructuring money and we're seeing that come to fruition.
And so we really think that the quarter we see in C&amp;I is -- really reflects to a large degree the improvement in productivity that we're seeing around because there is spending associated with this ongoing associated with the first quarter.
So I don't think there was anything special last time.
Research Division</strong> The volume operating leverage obviously with revenues being down 7% one might not expect you to attain the same kind of operating leverage that we saw in the last 3 quarters of last year.
But yet you were still able to do that.
How much -- if you didn't have that year-over-year difference in your operating leverage what kind of margin improvement could we have expected? I'm not sure.
Let me just say -- let me just try to answer your question this way.
Look this is a relatively complex landscape as you know.
As I know you know our company and it is complex.
So it's hard to say with definitive -- make a definitive statement on any particular quarter no matter what you see.
But the thing is is that you -- we have said that if the sales were flat just flat we could keep raising operating margins through the effect of our Snap-on value creation.
We're confident of that.
And this quarter what we saw on the 120 basis points of improvement was 10 points of restructuring favorability; 20 points of mix because RS&amp;I was up and C&amp;I was down so there were more different profitabilities; and then the rest you can roll up to RCI which is associated with that.
So you can expect us to try to -- not in any one particular quarter you might not be able to see it.
But over time you'll see an overlay and you can look back and see it.
You can look back and see it.
So we have operating improvement every quarter.
I think -- I hope that answers your question.
Research Division</strong> To some degree.
I mean I was looking for -- well operating leverage was this kind of a negative impact.
But because of RCI we had this much positive impact.
But that's okay.
I'm [indiscernible].
[indiscernible] how much.
I hate to pin myself down on operating leverage.
I mean associated with volume? Yes I don't like to say it -- I don't like to give you any particular number about that but you can be sure that if we get -- as we get higher volume we do get some operating leverage.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
With respect to Europe at some point with new car sales being down as much as they are and looking like we're going to have a 6th straight year of significant decline over there at some point the aftermarket has to pick back up because people are just going to have to be fixing their cars if they're going to keep them longer.
Have you seen any of that yet? Or when are you expecting something like that to start occurring over there? I'm out of the business of predicting where Europe is going.
I think I predicted that it was at the bottom like 2 years ago or something.
So I don’t know.
But look I think this is that Europe was down again for us.
Our hand tool business in Europe was down what high single-digits and it was down sort of low double-digits the last time.
And we're not all in auto.
We're in other businesses.
So it's a broad base.
Industry construction agriculture a lot of other things.
So it's a cocktail of things.
I don't know in general when Europe will come back but I'm confident -- we're pretty confident it will and we're -- actually we're pretty positive about this.
We think this is one of the hidden gems about Snap-on because what you've got here is you've got a business which is improving its operational fitness.
Profit is up when sales are down almost double digits and yet we know that our customers are out there.
We know that our customers still are remaining.
So when the Europe comes back we figure we're going to do pretty well on that.
Okay? Research Division</strong> Yes very good.
On Financial Services you're getting to the point where you're pretty much up to speed with respect to mimicking the tools as you mentioned earlier in the call.
I was curious is there any other opportunities with your Financial Services that you might be interested in pursuing in terms of providing credit services in other areas? No.
we have said -- I think we have said that our Financial Services is hand-in-glove with our Tools Group -- with our own operations.
So we view it as limited to the strategic support of Snap-on operations.
We don't view it as a sort of a credit company that provides services to other things which aren't associated with the rest for the business.
We see it as financing our customers and our products and our franchisees that's it.
And we'll take our last question from David Leiker with Baird.
Research Division</strong> Nick just one last item here.
You talked about China and how you're expanding your product range there.
What portion of your product offering do you think you have available in China Southeast Asia to deliver into the market today? I would say we have 1/3 right now.
Maybe 40% that kind of thing.
Maybe 1/3.
You mean in terms of our overall product line? You mean in terms of the overall Snap-on product line? Is that what...
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
I'd say about 1/3.
We have entries in virtually every category maybe less than 1/3.
Maybe 1/4 actually.
So let's say 1/4 to 1/3 we are -- but we have pretty comprehensive activity.
We're putting our toe in a lot of places.
But our product line is quite narrow in each -- is more narrow than we have in other places simply because you've got to start from 0 and you're trying to build up.
And so that's an important thing.
And a lot of this is learning the specific characterizations -- character of the customers.
Not China but just -- as we roll out into new markets like China or aerospace you have to learn.
I was just in an aerospace facility down in Indianapolis recently and it's interesting to walk the floor of that place 800 technicians and you realize how different it is than vehicle -- this was our money.
It was vehicle -- different from vehicle repairs.
Some of the tools are held centrally.
Some of them are done -- owned by each technician.
The technicians don't necessarily do the same thing so they need a different set of tools.
But one thing is in common is that they all like Snap-on.
I ran into a number of technicians that said -- we had just entered this place.
We started to sell there only like 3 or 4 months ago.
It's part of the reason why our aerospace is up.
And they said "We're glad you're here." The same kind of thing happens in China.
You're constantly understanding where the customer base is what they want and adjusting the product line and then trying to Asian-ize the product line to this.
So it's an ongoing process.
And I would say we've got about 25% now.
Research Division</strong> And do you think it's -- how much of your product offering do you think you could put there? Could it be 100%? Or is it only half of it? A version of a lot of it.
I can't say.
But nothing -- unfortunately probably nothing goes exactly.
We have to make changes to almost everything and that's what we call Asianization.
That's why the product line -- I think one of the mistakes people make is they try to sell what they have.
And it doesn't really work.
It works at the top end.
That's how you enter.
We entered with the top end with the super-premium brand we're selling to the best people and then what happens -- when you have to deal with the other people you actually have to make products that they might want and that they -- that fit their actual situations.
For example garages in China are lot -- a lot of the garages in China are a lot smaller.
So things like your under-car equipment have to be configured for that.
Now it's got the same base the same actual function but the physicals the geometries of it have to change.
Now that might not be a tough engineering move but it has to happen.
First you have to realize it's needed; and secondly then you have to execute it.
So we're constantly doing that.
That's why I'm so excited about the engineering center.
Research Division</strong> And then the last item just following on on that what about your geographic footprint in Asia Southeast Asia? Is that -- how much more work is there to build that out like you wanted to be? It's a lot more work in China and India.
We've got a lot more work there.
I think -- we could tick off the countries I think we have more work in Indonesia.
We have more work in the Philippines.
We're pretty good in Korea Singapore Taiwan Hong Kong Malaysia Thailand.
Those places were okay.
The other places we've got more -- a lot more work to do.
Research Division</strong> So you're still very early in this whole revenue stream coming out of Asia? Sure.
Yes.
And not to mention the repair wave is just starting to rise.
And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the call over for any closing remarks back over to Leslie Kratcoski.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Just thanks everyone for joining us on the call today and for your interest in Snap-on.
A replay of the call will be available shortly on snapon.com.
And good day.
Thanks.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Snap-on 2013 Second Quarter Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Leslie Kratcoski.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thanks Melanie and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to review Snap-on's second quarter 2013 results which are detailed in our press release issued earlier this morning.
We have on the call today Nick Pinchuk Snap-on's Chief Executive Officer; and Aldo Pagliari Snap-on's Chief Financial Officer.
Nick will kick off our call this morning with his perspective on our performance.
Aldo will then provide a more detailed review of our financial results.
After Nick provides some closing thoughts we'll take your questions.
As usual we have provided slides to supplement our discussion.
You can find a copy of these slides on our website next to the audio icon for this call.
These slides will be archived on our website along with a transcript of today's call.
Any statements made during the call relative to management's expectations estimates or beliefs; or otherwise state management's or the company's outlook plans or projections are forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those made in such statements.
Additional information and the factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are contained in our SEC filings.
With that said I'd now like to turn the call over to Nick Pinchuk.
Nick? Thanks Leslie.
Good morning everybody.
I'll start off today with the highlights of our second quarter.
I'll cover the general environment then I'll discuss some of the progress down our runways for both growth and improvement.
Aldo will then provide a detailed review of the financials.
Much as we've seen over the past several quarters we were again able to overcome the substantial headwinds to post solid sales and profit gains.
Our organic sales increased 3.1% from last year's level with opco operating income rising to $117.8 million or 15.4% of sales and Financial Services contributed an additional $30.6 million up $5 million from last year.
It all added up to a consolidated operating margin equal to 18.4% of revenues and EPS -- and an EPS of $1.50 which is up more than 15% from last year's $1.30.
Now there are a couple of items in this year's year-over-year comparison that should be noted.
First last year's results were impacted by a relatively high restructuring charge which included $6.8 million for pension settlement at our now closed Canadian tool storage facility.
Also this year we incurred $4.4 million in higher stock-based and mark-to-market cost that was primarily related to our recent share price increase and to more participation in our long-standing employee and franchisee stock purchase program.
But even after adjusting for these 2 items we believe that the year-over-year comparisons represent encouraging progress.
Related to our quarterly sales of $764.1 million in addition to the 3.1% organic increase we also had $8.5 million or 120 basis-point contribution from our recent acquisition of Challenger Lifts.
Along with a negative 70 basis-point impact from foreign currency the total result was an overall sales increase of 3.6%.
Now at a macro level we haven't seen much change in the external environment from the last 2 quarters.
Our Tools Group and our Repair Systems and Information or RS&amp;I group both which primarily serve the automotive repair sector are showing mid to high single-digit volume gains.
However those increases and the generally favorable market environments in those automotive-related segments are somewhat offset by Commercial &amp; Industrial or the C&amp;I group.
You may remember that the businesses in C&amp;I are where we feel the brunt of our major headwinds and the overall unevenness in the world economies.
You see it continuing this quarter mainly with softness in Europe and the impact on SNA Europe; our hand tool business is based in that region and in reduced military spending driven by troop withdrawals and budgetary constraints.
So there are challenges but as I see it there's also further progress.
We do believe that this quarter's results clearly demonstrate the benefits of and the balance inherent in the strategies we're pursuing as we proceed down our runways for both growth and improvement.
For growth we've identified 4 areas that are critical to our future: enhancing the franchise channel; expanding in the garage; building in emerging markets; and expanding into critical industries.
And again this quarter strategic progress in those areas more than offset the impact of the external headwinds.
Let me focus for a moment on customer connection and innovation.
These are 2 key components of Snap-on value creation and they're helping drive our growth.
Just this past quarter Snap-on was again recognized for innovation when Professional Tools and Equipment News or PTEN recognized us with their top Innovation Awards in 5 categories.
I've mentioned some of these products in the past and I'll highlight a few more now on the heels of their wins.
In the tool storage category Snap-on was recognized for our diagnostic mobile workstation.
It's a complete diagnostic and information system packaged in a secure fully enclosed unit that's on wheels so it can easily be moved around the garage going right to where the work needs to be done.
The station was designed for use with our VERDICT handheld unit.
It provides custom foam cutouts for organization of accessories a mounting place for a monitor and plenty of storage space for other tools.
Another of these award-winning products was the AC Touchless Wheel Clamp.
This unique design allows alignment techs to securely clamp the tire in one single and fast motion without touching the rim.
Now today that's important because cars -- today's cars have ever more varied and sensitive and expensive rims.
People worry about rim damage this fixes it.
And lastly of these recent winners -- and lastly of the recent winners I'll mention the BK8000 wireless digital inspection scope.
This tool provides the technician with the ability to visually inspect areas that are normally inaccessible but are important to see like under the dash behind the engine block inside the transmission housing or engine.
And has a screen that's 40% larger than the competition touch interface rechargeable aluminum -- lithium batteries and more memory than ever before for digital video.
This scope is a worthy winner of this award and is a popular seller.
One important additional fact that I think everybody should know or recognize is that the PTEN award -- about the PTEN award is that they're voted on by actual users.
So the Snap-on products selected as innovation leaders were chosen by a panel that included active technicians and shop owners those who will actually use the product.
We believe that customer connection is a big advantage for Snap-on.
With our 4 800 franchisees around the world hundreds of direct salespeople calling on 600 000 repair shops and many more critical work sites we have great insight in the products that will make work easier for professionals.
The PTEN awards selected by the same professionals are evidence that customer connection innovation are advantages for Snap-on and you can see it in the results.
Now demonstrating our balance between growth and improvement we also saw stronger operating performance in the quarter.
In fact the opco operating margin of 15.4% recorded in the period does represent a new level.
You see everyday we're applying the elements of Snap-on value creation: safety quality customer connection innovation and Rapid Continuous Improvement or RCI.
It's a focus that moves up along the runways for improvement and the gains can be seen not just in those areas benefiting from our increased volume but other places.
In fact maybe more telling even though C&amp;I group was down in sales this quarter it still achieved a 12.6% operating margin.
The impact of the sales decline was checked and limited.
That's Snap-on value creation.
Speaking of C&amp;I -- I'll move to a discussion of each of our segments.
C&amp;I sales of $266.2 million were down 5.4% organically with an additional 70 basis-point drop from currency.
Operating income was of $33.6 million actually was up as I said a reasonable job eliminating the impact from the drop in volume.
For the group there really wasn't much change from last quarter's sales picture.
Year-over-year activity comparisons were about what we've seen in the past.
SNA Europe was down high-single digits overall but their profits were up the benefits of RCI and the restructuring actions we've taken in prior periods.
And as expected military was down again big double digits.
So the headwinds and trends remained about the same with the normal period-to-period variation seen across individual markets.
In short our overall view and outlook remains the same.
The military decline did more than offset gains in -- elsewhere in industrial business.
Remember this is the business that's primarily focused on extending the Snap-on reach in the critical industries places like aviation mining and oil and gas.
In the past I've spoken of expanded product line to serve customers in those critical industries and we continue to have successes with new customers and products.
One highlight this quarter was strong gains with international aerospace customers.
We're reaching more maintenance repair and overall facilities around the globe.
And that extension is aided by new products like our control tech electronic torque wrench patented technology to achieve the fastest and most accurate torque and angle combo in a single motion; added durability important for the critical industry environment; an audible indicator; a vibrating handle; an LED display all to alert the technician as the proper torque is achieved and bring him right in on target.
And it incorporates Snap-on's dual 80 technology providing more precise yet stronger ratcheting.
It just launched just launched this past quarter and it's being well received by professionals across the critical industries.
One more point one last point remember that C&amp;I is where we have our primary effort to penetrate emerging economies.
These geographies were much as we saw in the first quarter with India the Philippines Turkey and Russia being particularly positive this quarter.
So we'd continue to build position and make progress along that decisive runway.
Let's move to the Tools Group.
Organic sales were up 7% an encouraging volume gain.
The operating margin of 15.7% in the quarter represents a new high for the group and compares to 13.7% recorded last year.
Now you remember that there were higher restructuring charges in the second quarter of 2012 $6.9 million of which was in the Tools Group mainly for the Canadian pension settlement.
I also mentioned the franchisee stock purchase plan.
This quarter we had $1.8 million higher cost associated with that plan in the Tools Group.
These 2 items impact the year-over-year comparisons.
But adjusting each but adjusting each year for the 2 items this year's operating margin of 16.3% would compare to last year's at 15.8% still strong growth.
Big-ticket sales were -- for the Tools Group big-ticket sales were significant growth drivers in this period.
Diagnostics and tool storage units those products were strong.
We believe it's important for us because we believe that big-ticket activity provides meaningful evidence of the financial well-being of our customers and it's a good barometer on the overall health of the auto repair sector.
And those sales those big-ticket sales are being supported by Snap-on Credit.
It's an important advantage for us.
Not only is Credit helping to drive big-ticket activity in North America but we're now extending some of that advantage in the international van operation.
The well-established programs and expertise we've developed here are being applied to our advantage in places like the U.K.
and Australia improving service increasing customer satisfaction and driving more growth.
Tools Group performance was also driven by customer connection and innovation.
3 of the 5 PTEN Innovation Award winners are sold by our franchisees.
And our many more new products like the innovative S6810 impact flip socket an 8-millimeter and 10-millimeter hex on the same tool saving technicians' valuable time and moving today's underbody panels that have dozens of different different-in-size fasteners a process required even for routine repair and maintenance.
This tool is a big saver.
Or products like our new digital display circuit testers that provide the technicians with a no-guess voltage rather than having to estimate it based on bulb brightness we took technology and features from a more advanced multimeter and applied it to a common handheld tester.
Now it sounds simple but since April we've sold tens of thousands of them well over $1 million in value.
The group's performance testifies that we are progressing along the strategic runway of enhancing the van channel.
You can see it in the franchisee health metrics sales up franchisee turnover down trends positive.
So based on the second quarter the Tools Group appears to be hitting on a lot of cylinders.
Now for RS&amp;I.
A total sales of 8.7 -- a total sales increase of 8.7% which is made up of an organic rise of 4.9% and additional -- and an additional contribution of 380 basis points from the acquisition of Challenger Lifts and a 40 basis-point impact from unfavorable foreign exchange.
The operating margin was a strong 23%.
We continue to see strength in our business providing independent shops with diagnostics and repair information and in serving OEM dealerships with essential hard and diagnostics tools and with electronic parts catalogs.
Gains in those businesses drove RS&amp;I growth in spite of flat sales for undercar equipment a product line that has been impacted by the decline in Europe where we have a relatively large position.
Obviously one of the big highlights for RS&amp;I this quarter was the Challenger Lift acquisition in mid-May.
We're excited to add Challenger to our portfolio a well-established brand a complementary product line.
We believe that the acquisition is a step along our path of coherent growth.
It will broaden our product line and help us to better serve customers who are repair shop owners and managers.
Moving away from undercar equipment.
Snap-on's presence is expanding in other parts of the garage and here too the gains are driven by an ever-growing offering of innovative and new products like entry-level diagnostics.
Earlier this year we launched the successful MICROSCAN 3 and ETHOS Plus in North America basic diagnostics.
Now in the second quarter we rolled them out internationally in the U.K.
They're quite -- and they're quite popular and these are important entrée products introducing technicians to Snap-on capability creating customers for life who transition into utilizing our full diagnostics line up.
Mitchell 1 our repair information business has also been launching new products to serve the important medium- and heavy-duty truck market.
Our new truck labor estimating product we believe the most complete such database available for estimating truck repair has been well received and adds to our already strong and growing line up in that segment.
It's clear to us that we're gaining traction with truck repair shop owners and managers.
You can see it with this new estimating product and it's evidenced with our truck repair information offering which registered a 25% increase in customers since this time last year.
So that's the highlight to our quarter: advancements along our runways for growth and for improvement; continued expansion with strength in the Tools Group and RS&amp;I overcoming the external challenges in C&amp;I and its headwinds; and better performance Snap-on value creation driving improvements higher profitability across the corporation despite the challenges.
Now I'll turn the call over to Aldo before making a few closing comments.
Aldo? Thanks Nick.
Our second quarter consolidated operating results are summarized on Slide 6.
Net sales of $764.1 million in the quarter increased 3.6% from 2012 levels on an organic basis sales increased 3.1% excluding the $8.5 million of sales from Challenger Lifts and an unfavorable $4.7 million impact from foreign currency translation.
The year-over-year organic sales increase primarily reflects continued higher sales in the Snap-on Tools Group along with higher sales to OEM dealerships and increased sales of diagnostics and repair information products.
These sales increases more than offset lower sales to the military and lower sales in our European-based hand tools business.
Consolidated gross profit of $373.2 million increased $23.3 million from 2012 levels.
Gross margin of 48.8% improved 140 basis points largely due to lower restructuring costs as well as savings from ongoing Rapid Continuous Improvement or RCI initiatives.
Operating expenses of $255.4 million increased $10.1 million primarily due to higher volume-related expenses and $4.4 million of increased stock-based and mark-to-market expenses.
The operating expense margin of 33.4% compared with 33.2% last year.
Restructuring costs in the quarter totaled $1.8 million.
Last year restructuring costs totaled $10.2 million and included $6.8 million for the settlement of a pension plan following the 2011 closure of our Newmarket Canada facility.
As a result of these factors operating earnings before Financial Services of $117.8 million increased 12.6% and as a percentage of sales improved 120 basis points from prior year levels.
Operating earnings from Financial Services of $30.6 million increased $5 million or 19.5% over prior year levels.
Consolidated operating earnings of $148.4 million increased 14% over 2012 levels and the operating margin of 18.4% improved 170 basis points from 16.7% a year ago.
Our second quarter effective income tax rate was 32.5%.
We continue to expect that our full year 2013 effective tax rate will be comparable to our 2012 full year rate of 32.8%.
Finally net earnings in the quarter of $88.4 million or $1.50 per diluted share compared to net earnings of $76.4 million or $1.30 per share last year representing a 15.4% increase in diluted earnings per share.
Now let's turn to our segment results.
Starting with the Commercial &amp; Industrial or C&amp;I group on Slide 7.
Sales of $266.2 million were down 5.4% organically from 2012 levels primarily due to a double-digit decline in sales to the military and a high single-digit sales decline in our European-based hand tools business as a result of ongoing economic weakness in that region.
Gross profit in the C&amp;I group totaled $105.4 million in the quarter.
Gross margin of 39.6% improved 280 basis points from 36.8% last year primarily due to savings from ongoing RCI initiatives particularly in Europe and lower restructuring costs.
Operating expenses of $71.8 million in the quarter were essentially flat with prior year levels.
The operating expense margin of 27% however increased from 25.2% last year primarily due to lower sales.
As a result of these factors second quarter operating earnings of $33.6 million for the C&amp;I segment increased $800 000 from 2012 levels and the operating margin of 12.6% improved 100 basis points from 11.6% last year.
Turning now to Slide 8.
Second quarter sales from the Snap-on Tools Group of $346.2 million increased 7% organically reflecting increases across both our U.S.
and international franchise operations.
Gross profit of $152.9 million increased $15.9 million from 2012 levels primarily due to $6.8 million of lower restructuring costs.
The gross margin of 44.2% in the quarter increased 200 basis points from 42.2% last year.
Operating expenses of $98.4 million in the quarter increased $5.9 million from 2012 levels primarily due to higher volume-related costs and $1.8 million of increased stock-based and mark-to-market expenses associated with our franchisee stock purchase plan.
The operating expense margin was 28.5% in both the second quarters 2013 and 2012.
As a result of these factors operating earnings of $54.5 million for the Snap-on Tools Group increased $10 million from prior year levels and the operating margin of 15.7% increased 200 basis points from 13.7% last year.
Turning to the Repair Systems &amp; Information or RS&amp;I group shown on Slide 9.
Sales of $246.2 million increased 8.3% from 2012 levels including $8.5 million of sales from the recent acquisition of Challenger.
Excluding the Challenger sales and unfavorable foreign currency translation organic sales in the quarter increased $11.1 million or 4.9% primarily due to a high single-digit gain in sales to OEM dealerships and a mid single-digit gain in sales of diagnostics and repair information products.
Gross profit totaled $114.9 million in the quarter.
The gross margin of 46.7% decreased 110 basis points from 47.8% last year primarily due to a shift in sales mix that included higher volumes of lower gross margin products including the higher sales of essential tool and facilitation products to OEM dealerships and sales from the Challenger acquisition.
These gross margin decreases were partially offset by continued savings from ongoing RCI initiatives.
Operating expenses totaled $58.2 million in the quarter and the operating expense margin of 23.7% improved 110 basis points from 2012 levels primarily due to contributions from sales volume leverage including the effects from the sales mix shift discussed above and savings from ongoing RCI initiatives.
Second quarter operating earnings of $56.7 million for the RS&amp;I group increased $4.5 million from prior year levels and the operating margin was 23% in both the second quarters of 2013 and 2012.
Now turning to Slide 10.
In the second quarter earnings from Financial Services increased $5 million or 19.5% and originations of $203.1 million rose 15.7% year-over-year.
Revenues in the quarter increased $4.6 million primarily due to continued growth of the on-book finance portfolio and higher average yields.
The average yield on finance receivables of 17.4% in the quarter increased 30 basis points from 17.1% last year and average yield on contract receivables of 9.6% in the quarter increased 20 basis points from 2012 levels.
Moving to Slide 11.
Our quarter end balance sheet includes approximately $1.15 billion of gross financing receivables including $976 million from our U.S.
Snap-on Credit operation and $169 million from our international finance subsidiaries.
In the U.S.
$785 million or 80% of the financing portfolio relates to extended credit loans to technicians.
Year-to-date our worldwide on-book financing portfolio grew approximately $61 million.
For the 2013 full year we anticipate that the gross on-book finance portfolio will increase by approximately $100 million over 2012 year-end levels.
As for finance portfolio losses and delinquency trends these continue to be in line with our expectations.
I'll also note that the CIT-owned portfolio which continues to be managed by Snap-on Credit is down to $35 million with the extended credit portion at $5 million.
Now turning to Slide 12.
Cash provided by operations of $110.1 million in the quarter increased $18.4 million from $91.7 million last year.
This quarter we made cash contributions of $10.4 million to our U.S.
pension plans including $10 million of discretionary contributions.
Also in the quarter in investing activities cash of $52.5 million was used to support a net increase in finance receivables.
Capital expenditures of $16.7 million in the quarter compared with capital expenditures of $18 million last year.
For the full year we continue to expect that capital expenditures will be in the range of $70 million to $80 million.
Turning to Slide 13.
Days sales outstanding for trade receivables of 61 days was unchanged from 2012 year-end levels.
Excluding the impact of currency inventories increased $25 million including inventories from the Challenger acquisition.
On a trailing 12-month basis inventory turns of 3.8x compared with 3.9x at year end.
Our quarter end cash position of $174.7 million reflects the year-to-date net funding of $74.4 million of finance receivables share repurchases of $62.1 million dividend payments of $44.4 million and the acquisition of Challenger for $38.2 million as well as capital expenditures of $31.4 million.
These uses of cash were largely offset by cash generated from operations including higher levels of net income.
Our net debt-to-capital ratio of 29.9% compares to 29.7% at 2012 year end.
In addition to our $175 million of cash and expected cash flow from operations we have more than $700 million in available credit facilities and our current short-term credit ratings allow us to access the commercial paper markets should we choose to do so.
At quarter end no amounts were outstanding under any of these facilities.
This concludes my remarks on our second quarter performance.
I'll now turn the call over to Nick for his closing thoughts.
Nick? Thanks Aldo.
Our second quarter was encouraging.
The Tools Group growing and getting stronger franchisee health metrics trending positive new products creating excitement across our customer base volume up 7% profits continuing their rise to 15.7%.
C&amp;I challenged by ongoing headwinds but offsetting the impact of the volume decrease with strong operating performance.
Sales were down but profits were up with an OI margin at 12.6%.
And RS&amp;I expanding with repair shop owners and managers independent and OEM dealerships maintaining encouraging levels of profitability organic growth at 4.9% and profits at 23% a coherent acquisition focused on repair shop owners and managers brought onboard with positive effects.
Overall we believe the quarter's performance offers abundant evidence that the Snap-on future is playing out growth and improvement.
And we believe we'll continue to advance along those 2 broad runways as we move forward throughout the year and into 2014.
Before I close I recognize that the encouraging results of the second quarter would not have been possible without our extraordinary franchisees and associates.
Once again I know many of you are listening to this call so for the success and progress you've achieved you have my congratulations.
And for your contribution commitment and support you have my thanks.
Now I'll turn the call over to the operator.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from David Leiker from Baird.
Research Division</strong> Another continued progress here towards your goal ultimately you're doing a great job.
A couple of things here.
As we look at C&amp;I business can you give us any color on the sequential performance there? I mean I understand the year-over-year but are you seeing things stabilize when you look at it relative to Q1? Or are we still declining? No I think you're looking at similar -- I think we would characterize it as not congruent but similar to Q1.
I think I said in Q1 that the military would -- military still down big time but it's operating on a somewhat lower base and that's the primary difference between the 6%.
I think it was down 6.3% year-over-year in the first quarter.
It's down what 5.4% in this quarter.
That's the major player.
You got some goes ins and goes outs in terms of okay from critical industries one critical industry is up in the first quarter and the stars are maybe mining in the second quarter things like that.
You got those things up and down.
And then in Asia/Pacific in the emerging markets you got including Eastern Europe you got some ups and downs in markets but pretty much the same stuff.
We are seeing another constant though.
A positive constant is that the effects of Snap-on value creation I think are working pretty well.
And I think sequentially the sales aren't much different but the profitability is higher.
So that's looking pretty good.
Whether we look at it sequentially or year-over-year you can see the effects of Snap-on value creation working through and you can see it actually very dramatically in Europe where the sales are down again high single-digits and the profits are up.
So sort of a similar quarter for us.
Research Division</strong> And that well too for European tool business as well that that is stabilizing here sequentially? Yes I'd say it's not decelerating downwards yes right like it has been for a while.
It's sort of stabilizing.
We're not seeing worse news.
I think that's a fair statement yes.
Research Division</strong> And then as we look at the tool business and you've had some great initiatives here over the last several years that drive productivity and sell more products to the van channel it sounds like your starting to take that into your international market.
Can you talk where you are in the timeline of that and whether we could see a similar response in those international markets that we've seen in the U.S.
markets in recent years? It's very early days in that regard so -- because the international markets are -- the vans are -- even though we kind of say the vans -- we talk about them as vans the vans in England are slightly different than the vans in Australia that are slightly different than the vans in U.S.
So we're very early days in that.
So I think you just got to stay tuned in that regard.
Our van -- we're still building the marketing efforts.
You can see written on the face of the Tools Group financials we're still spending more on marketing.
For example I think we've got what is it 42 Rock N' Roll vans now and that's up and we're going to like 51 by the end of the third quarter.
And we've got a new van called the techno-van [ph].
This is a -- remember that Rock N' Roll Cab Express was focused on tool storage so that it could kind of aid selling and tool storage where we have these new vans 4 of them on the road now which talk about diagnostics.
Particularly the big-ticket diagnostics.
You get on this thing it's got flat screens all over the place.
It allows the customer to kind of -- the shop owner or the technician to kind of work the thing on a big 16 by 9 screen so it's dramatic for them and shows them all the features of the diagnostics.
It's working pretty well for us.
We have 4 of them now we're going to I think about 10 by the end of the third quarter.
We'll go next to David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
Great quarter Nick.
Thank you.
It's a -- I think this is a -- the OI margin was a high watermark -- the EPS is the high watermark.
But you kind of -- when you're moving upwards you kind of expect to have a high watermark every year.
So...
A few questions for you but before I ask my questions I guess the first one is just once upon a time 15% was kind of the target margin and I'm just wondering if at some point we'll see a comfortable sort of talking about the next leg of your growth.
Yes okay I know.
But before we get overheated about the 15% remember that I kind of said mid-teens but for like a year.
So I kind of think it's more or less a year.
And I'll point out to everybody like I do every second quarter call that our third quarter has some seasonal issues to -- seasonal -- and I don't want to say issues but seasonal headwinds in terms of the vacations in Europe and the van drivers have got to take vacations some time and they usually do it in the third quarter.
So our third quarter is usually I'm not saying -- I'm not forecasting bad news or anything.
I'm just saying it's more imprecise and more capricious than other quarters.
And I think if you look over history it's usually our weaker quarter.
So you kind of got to look at it over a full year basis.
Okay.
First question just on the tools business you talked about the strength in big ticket.
That 7% organic growth is there some way we could sort of bifurcate that between ticket and transaction? What was the growth from the average ticket? I don't really want to get into it in that granularity.
I'll just tell you that big ticket was substantially well bigger than the 7%.
It was quite strong.
But I don't want to tie myself to that wheel of explaining big ticket and small ticket in every quarter because there's a lot of variation.
But I will tell you that we -- and the reason why I don't know if you recall this but the reason why we focus on big ticket is we learned that it is an indicator of weakness of the economics in the marketplace because during the recession we saw some really weak numbers in big ticket people demurred or they decided not to purchase and the fact that we're seeing this makes us feel pretty good about the marketplace.
Can you say what big ticket represents as a percentage of the segment? Well I don't know if I have that number actually but I think you could say like between tool storage and big ticket diagnostics my ballpark sausage math would say like a quarter something like that.
Or 25%? Yes.
But -- no that's helpful that's helpful.
Of course that's not [ph] detailed but I'd say around that number.
And could you -- last quarter you talked about sort of the 3-month pattern within the quarter.
I wonder if I could get you to just address that again this quarter how the 3-month pattern played out.
Did you see strength at the end of the quarter that was June...
3-month -- well we always see a little bit of strength at the end of the quarter.
I don't know I've been in business decades and I see this everywhere.
And so you always see that kind of thing at the end of the quarter.
But I'll tell you it's what -- I wouldn't say it didn't happen like the first quarter.
Remember what I said in the first quarter I think that I said the first quarter was dominated by the idea that things were very weak in the first couple of weeks of 2013.
I think it had to do with uncertainty around sequestration and the -- what with the Social Security tax increase and the changes in the tax rates and I think we've found that our customers were afflicted by the bad -- their perceived bad news for breakfast they were seeing every morning and then we saw a build through the quarter.
I'm not sure people thought -- kind of believe me but I think this played out in the second quarter.
Our Tools Group growth was at 3.5% or so on or 3 and change in the first quarter but we said it was stronger at the end and I -- that growth carried on into the second quarter.
But I wouldn't say in the second quarter it was to the same extent as the first quarter.
We didn't have some terrible time and then move on toward the end of the quarter.
Sounds like it was more linear.
I wanted to ask...
Yes.
And I'll remind you that we -- despite the fact we got 7% we always say that we've grown at 4% to 6% organically in the Tools Group is towards the bottom of that.
Right.
So then on the RCI achievements can you just talk about how much RCI contributed to the quarter? Well I can talk about it in terms of -- I mean let's not talk about in terms of OI or something like that.
But let's say if you look at our margin improvement 120 basis points right you could say 110 of that is restructuring sure but there was the stock plan that cost you 50 60 basis points.
Challenger has a weaker profitability than average that's a 10 and 40 for market.
So you put those kind of negatives together it's about 100.
Between volume and RCI you got another 110 positives.
So I'd say RCI is 80 90 basis points of positiveness.
Was it fair to say most of that was in Europe? A lot of it was in Europe but I would say that we had good progress in a lot of different places.
Our RS&amp;I which is not -- is only 25% Europe had good RCI.
And Tools Group made some RCI contributions too if you peel their results you'd find it.
So I think we saw it everywhere but more in Europe to a greater degree in Europe.
Last question though -- if you take the industrials business out of C&amp;I and isolate that so excluding Europe and excluding Asia and just talking about your critical industries you obviously had a negative comp a big negative comp in the military business.
It sounds like mining was good.
If you view those as a portfolio of businesses it sounds like they were up year-over-year.
Can you talk about the extent to which they were up year-over-year and the extent to which they...
I would just say they were up single digits year-over-year if you take out the U.S.
Military.
You saw it we got good news in mining the international business we're finding we're reaching out.
The cool thing about that is we're now seeming to be able to project ourselves better in that business even to the international businesses so we felt okay about that.
I just want to clarify one thing I'm sitting here thinking what -- your question about big ticket were you asking the total corporation or Tools Group? I was thinking about Tools Group but any way you care to describe it [ph]...
Okay I mean I -- sorry I gave you the total corporation.
The Tools Group is more like 35% 35% and change yes 35% to 40% or something like that.
We'll go next to Gary Prestopino with Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You were talking a lot about new products that's all good.
Are you kind of accelerating some new product introductions as you're growing here? I mean you always had a goal of 40 new products with $1 million of sales or more.
Has that been accelerated? Yes it is.
We're getting better at it.
That's a simple point.
I think our customer connection and our innovation I think you've been to our Innovation Works you can see where we -- we take customer observation up close to design and it's all part of Snap-on Value Creation Processes but it didn't take -- Snap-on knew how to develop new products before of course and we had the idea of being in the workplace and observing it.
But now we've boiled it down to repeatable and reliable processes and we get better at that.
So we're getting better at documenting what we see in other words determining a sense of the practical what's needed in the workplace.
And then we're adding higher -- I don't want to say high tech because a lot of people have this stuff but for us higher tech stuff like X-ray refractometers and electron microscopes and more use of finite element analysis so we model in 3D printers and that stuff.
So we're sort of upgrading our engineering capability to more than it's ever been before.
I'm not saying it's anything better than anybody else but upgrading of where we had and it's coming together for more new products.
And I think I said that last year our new products our hits that were $1 million sellers were 6x or 7x what they were in 2006.
So we're rolling out new products.
And then I'll tell you what this is an important thing because I was just on a van the other day and I'm up here in Wisconsin and a guy gets on the van and he says -- this is a guy who has been working for 25 years the techs working on transmissions and I remember the guy's name but I won't say it on the phone is in our auto up here.
And he says jeez I've got a huge number of ratchets but look at these new ratchets they're going to help me and save me a lot of time.
So he bought 2 new ratchets even though we had like 15 or 16 ratchets already.
And so that's an important characteristic of our growth scenario is that cars keep changing.
And the faster we can bring out new cars guided by customer connection -- new products new tools guided by customer connection the better we grow the more share we take.
That was a good example of it the other day and we're doing more of that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Good.
Good to hear.
And then can you maybe just talk about Europe in terms of -- you had always said the Southern tier was weak the Northern tier was holding its own.
Are you seeing the Northern tier kind of slip here talking about France Germany? Lower [ph] countries? Yes France.
I don't like to hear the word France makes me -- gives me headache now these days.
It wasn't so good last quarter.
So France yes you're right.
I mean I think -- I don't want to overplay Southern Europe.
I mean Southern Europe is getting so small for us.
It's getting a lesser and lesser factor but Southern Europe was down but the core Europe France was down pretty -- was week this quarter.
Benelux was weak.
Germany was a little better the U.K.
was better Sweden was weaker.
In general you're right.
If you talk about year-over-year comparison South got a little better the core got a little worse the periphery was good.
So like I said we feel good about Europe because -- about our SNA Europe business because one we're not taking capacity down yet we're finding RCI improvements.
We're finding productivity improvements so we have higher profitability on lower sales; and two we haven't dismantled the value-creating nature of the business because anybody who has money that is in the periphery places like Russia and Northern Africa and so on and the Middle East they're buying.
So that's an endorsement that what's happening in Europe was still pretty strong they're just waiting for the markets to come back.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So the last question would be in terms of the emerging markets.
You'd always said that that was 5% to 10% of sales.
I would assume that that's trending closer to the 10%? Or has it exceeded that? It's over 10% now.
It's over -- it's just over -- it's a slice over 10%.
Of course you realize our numbers aren't that precise and so on and all these but it's over 10%.
So we're moving upwards.
We'll go next to Liam Burke with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Nick you talked about the profitability step-up in the C&amp;I segment in Europe.
Looking at the critical industries business without Europe do you still see a gross margin step-up as well in the rest of the segment? Yes you see productivity improvements of course.
We spend in that segment to try to extend into Europe for example.
The idea I think in my remarks I talked about international aviation business as you know.
And so if you just strip back the core business you'll like the profitability of it.
On the other hand we have like in the Tools Group we have an overlay of spending to talk about penetration but still I like the profitability of the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you made the Challenger acquisition this quarter.
Is the pipeline continuing to be healthy there on the acquisition front? Sure.
Yes.
I mean I think it's -- the Challenger is a great poster child for the type acquisition we'd make not necessarily the size although it's not a bad -- we like that size but it doesn't mean we wouldn't do bigger but it's right down our wheelhouse we think about giving us more to sell to one of our key customer bases.
So we have a series of acquisitions that we keep looking at and Challenger was I guess the first one we've done in a while after the I guess credit company.
I like to say the credit company being an acquisition given that it was $800 million or so.
And yes we have a pipeline.
We continue to work on it.
We'll take our next question from Adam Brooks with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Just a few quick questions here.
Given your performance in C&amp;I in the last few quarters do you have a more optimistic view on the long-term margin? Can we get to that mid-teen range just within the segment or has nothing really changed and this is kind of what you've been expecting? I'm not quite sure.
Let me try to answer what I think you asked me.
I see this as a mature a mid-teens -- I think I've always said how I've done this I've said look we're going to the mid-teens the components of that will be the RS&amp;I group up around the 20s the Tools Group kind of around the mid-group and C&amp;I hanging around a little bit below that but not -- but approaching mid-teens and I have full confidence that that's the case.
I mean C&amp;I we're kind of happy about the C&amp;I quarter.
The 12.6% is pretty strong if you look at historical performance of C&amp;I and yet it's taken all these hits from the headwinds.
I mean that's headwinds city for us.
You got Europe.
You've got the military.
It's a tougher place to be these days but they perform pretty well.
So I see them moving on up.
I'm not saying next quarter or something like that but I just think the opportunities are very clear and we're confident in those businesses.
LLC</strong> Okay and then maybe just a little bit on Challenger now that you have it under your belt just for a few months maybe some color on any opportunities that you see now anything that's gotten you a little bit more excited.
Look I think funny when you acquire somebody all of a sudden when you're touring these garages you start noticing the names on the list more and I was just like I said I was on a truck the other day and it seemed like every garage had Challenger Lifts and I know that's not the case.
They're not the largest lift manufacturer.
So I think one talking to technicians I found that it has a -- it reinforced my idea of great reputation.
That's one thing.
Secondly we have opportunities to roll that business out into international.
It's not an international business now but we have equipment selling in international markets in Europe and in particularly Asia so we're very excited about the opportunity to take that product portfolio and spread it into those places.
And it's pretty important about emerging markets because you see emerging markets they're building new brick and mortar all the time around auto repair garages and the first thing that gets thought of when you're putting brick-and-mortar in your automotive repair garages is the lift.
So if you have a strong line up there it gives you a leg up in selling.
We like that.
So we're pretty excited about it.
LLC</strong> And do you think now being under the Snap-on umbrella you can bring the margins up on that business? Or are they where you think they're going to be? I mean I hope we can bring the margins up.
I think we -- that's why we have Snap-on value creation.
We think Snap-on value creation is safety quality customer connection innovation and Rapid Continuous Improvement imprinted on any operation makes it better.
So one of the things we've always said about our I think have said about our acquisition strategy is we acquire somebody coherent so we get the synergies around sort of strategic alignment.
It helps us with our customer base.
But that doesn't diminish the idea that we have opportunities to make almost any operation better.
We're confident of that.
We'll go next to Richard Hilgert with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Over in Europe I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about since that market is down as much as it is what's your experience with the franchisees over there? How do you motivate the group? Are you seeing many of them fold up? And also curious about are you seeing many of the independent mechanic shops closing up too? Okay.
Let's talk about this.
Europe is a little bit bifurcated.
Let me kind of give you the landscape remind you of the landscape a little bit.
The franchisees overwhelmingly in Europe are concentrated in England because our van business mostly works where technicians own their own tools.
So the places -- the place in Europe where they own their own tools is the U.K.
That business has not been as affected by the downturn.
It's had its weak moments but it isn't as -- it didn't have as much problems as the other businesses.
And so therefore -- having said that though we have worked very hard to make sure that our franchisee population stays the same.
So the franchisee we haven't seen any huge downturn in the franchisees in the U.K.
And so that's maintained robust.
We have some vans in places like Germany and Netherlands but they're not really that weak -- they're not really that big.
Most of the business in Europe is the direct and distributor business which we sell through SNA Europe and our other divisions not the Tools Group division.
And you remember that C&amp;I is 33% Europe RS&amp;I is 25% Europe.
They're way above the Tools Group.
And so those businesses have been impacted.
But they're broader-based and not just -- C&amp;I is the -- the C&amp;I business is another -- is an industry and culture and a lot of other different things.
Now what we've noticed is in Europe that our customers we sell to distributors our customers have not gone away.
So it appears to us that the base the customer base is still intact.
So the long and short of this is I guess the long and short of my answer is that we don't see any deterioration in the opportunity in Europe.
We see the customer base still there.
We believe the morale of our people are still pretty high because there's nothing like seeing your sales down and your profits up.
You feel pretty good about it so they feel strong.
And because we believe in the opportunities going forward it's why through all this restructuring through all the RCIs through all the restructuring we did in Europe we didn't take out any capacity.
That's one thing we demanded in terms of the restructuring plan.
We demanded that no capacity go out.
We reduced based on being able to do the same with more during this period.
So I hope that answers your question.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
U.K.
new car sales are actually up there versus the rest of the Europe which has been down most of the year.
So I would imagine that you're still seeing fairly good business in the U.K.
then? Yes.
The U.K -- look the Tools Group was up I think about the same internationally as it was in the U.S.
But the U.K.
might have been at the like at the lower end of that but still up pretty good like 4% 5% something like that.
So still I think good.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
On the CapEx you've been running -- the run rates have been pretty low compared to what the full year expectation is.
It's been 1.8% 1.9% for the first and second quarters percent of revenue and your full year run rate is -- the $70 million $80 million comes out to something like maybe 2.3% to 2.6% of revenue.
We're going to see the third quarter and the fourth quarter being high 2% low 3% spend? Yes I suppose.
Look I don't actually think of it that way.
I kind of think that we're thinking about -- we have what 31.5% or so year-to-date.
So okay I think we still like a 70 to 80 number.
There's a lot of variation from quarter to quarter on these things.
And I still think the 70 number -- 70 to 80 is a decent number to forecast.
So if that means going up in the second half yes [ph].
Research Division</strong> Is there anything in particular in the second half of the year in terms of capital spending any one big project or something that's ramping up? No.
I don't think...
It's fairly broad-based.
We have investments both in the U.S.
and the international arena earmarked for the second half.
It's pretty broad-based.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes and then one last question.
A large part of your success is your ability to bring out new product and be in tune with what the market needs having new technologies or having new tools that meet a certain criteria that the market wants.
And I was curious to know do you have any kind of information or analysis on say the percentage of your product portfolio that is new over a certain time frame? I do not.
I think look everybody has a different view of this.
But for me I don't like -- I'm not a big fan of that metric.
The metric we like is and now I'll tell you why we like it is a tool that sells $1 million in the first year.
And the reason is because when you ride these vans what you see is a new tool the guys get on the van and get excited.
And okay they buy the new tool but then they buy a whole bunch of other stuff too.
So it drags other products with it.
So for us it's a matter of not how many new products there are but how many exciting new products or how many products make the hit parade.
That's what I was talking to Gary Prestopino before and so that's what we measure.
And as I said the number of new products last year that sold over $1 million in the first year and we're pretty strict about this was up 6x to 7x from 2006.
So our innovation process and our customer connection process are improving.
It's our life blood.
Because if you think about this we guarantee a lot of our tools for life so how is it we have a business? And the reason is is because the guy needs instead of 16 ratchets he needs 18 because the cars change.
That's the biggest driver in our business and that fits in with this innovation.
And so we seem to be doing better on that.
So the metric I like to offer is tools over $1 million and that was over 50 last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Over 50 last year? Yes over 50 you got it [ph].
Research Division</strong> In 2012? Okay.
2012 yes.
And we'll take our next question from Sarah Hunt with Alpine.
LLC</strong> Quick -- a couple quick questions for you.
One you mentioned that you were doing fairly well with auto OE repair shops.
So are you taking share from somebody? Or is that market just getting better? I think you would have to say some of both.
We'd like to think we're taking share.
It's hard -- Sarah it's hard to assess share in this space because we're basically 65 000 SKUs.
Okay if you add 3 000 more is that taking share? I don't know.
You see what I mean? And so I think we do believe though our sales are getting better in these shops we're selling more to each individual shops the franchisees and the individual sales.
Franchisees are selling more the individual salesmen are selling more.
So we believe we're taking some share.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then the next question is on interest rates.
So we've seen a lot of movement in the last 4 weeks or so based on various interpretations of what the Fed is going to do.
For your own financing piece of the business how rapidly do you need to or have to adjust as interest rates change? Or how are you looking at that now that you've got the finance portfolio as internal? Sarah this is Aldo.
I think that actually we have a little bit of a headroom I believe in the interest rate arena.
And the reason I say that is our finance receivables and contract receivables tend to be of relatively high interest rates in the market reflective of the credit profile of the customers that we serve.
And our philosophy is we finance the credit company long.
And what I mean by that if you look at our pro forma statements that are attached to the earnings release we use the Snap-on average all in debt expense rate and that's at about 5.6% more or less at the end of June.
So we don't use floating rate debt to really finance the receivable portfolio.
And if today if we had issued 10-year paper as an example I'm guessing the rate would be about 3.6-ish somewhere around that neighborhood.
So you'd see we still have 200 basis points of headroom before I think that our cost of funds would start to impact squeezing the spread of what we charge customers and what we pay.
LLC</strong> Okay and that would really be a temporary I'm guessing sort of a temporary issue if rates are going up.
I mean unless they're steadily going up and you're chasing it I would think that you're probably -- that that would -- as rates go up that gets reflected on what you charge folks.
Is it not? Sure it would be.
I think it would be a little bit of a lag effect because in some situations that we do charge rates that are sometimes the highest rates allowed by law depending on the circumstances and the profile of the customer and those laws change probably on a lag basis I'm going to guess versus the open free-market rates.
And there are no further questions at this time.
So this is Leslie Kratcoski.
I'd just like to thank everyone for joining us today on the call and as always for your interest in Snap-on.
A replay of this will be available shortly on snapon.com.
Thanks a lot and have a great day.
This does conclude today's call.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Snap-on Incorporated 2013 Third Quarter Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Leslie Kratcoski.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Tim and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to review Snap-on's third quarter 2013 results which are detailed in our press release issued earlier this morning.
We have on the call today Nick Pinchuk Snap-on's Chief Executive Officer; and Aldo Pagliari Snap-on's Chief Financial Officer.
Nick will kick off our call this morning with his perspective on our performance.
Aldo will then provide a more detailed review of our financial results.
After Nick provides some closing thoughts we'll take your questions.
As usual we have provided slides to supplement our discussion.
You can find a copy of these slides on our website next to the audio icon for this call.
These slides will be archived on our website along with a transcript of today's call.
Any statements made during the call relative to management's expectations estimates or beliefs or otherwise state management's or the company's outlook plans or projections are forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those made in such statements.
Additional information and the factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are contained in our SEC filing.
With that said I'd now like to turn the call over to Nick Pinchuk.
Nick? Thanks Leslie.
Good morning everybody.
As usual I'll start by covering some of the highlights of our third quarter and I'll provide an update on the general environment and on the trends of our business.
Aldo will then give a detailed review of the financials.
Our third quarter it was encouraging.
We again showed progress along our runways both for growth and for improvement.
Our sales were up 5.8% from last year reflecting a 4.7% organic rise as well as a $15.6 million increase related to Challenger Lifts which you'll recall earlier this year was acquired for our undercar equipment portfolio.
Our operating margin before financial services was 14.8% up 130 basis points from the last year's 13.5%.
When you add the $31.6 million in operating earnings from financial services which was up from $27.9 million in 2012 the consolidated operating margin was 17.9%.
And EPS was $1.43 also up from the $1.26 achieved last year.
From a broad perspective our automotive repair related businesses continue to be well positioned.
You can see that with another quarter of mid to high single digit gains in both the Tools Group and in the Repair Systems &amp; Information or RS&amp;I Group.
For Commercial &amp; Industrial or the C&amp;I Group where our major headwinds have been the most pronounced the third quarter it did offer some evidence of an improving environment.
Now military activity which is being held back by troop withdrawals and budgetary constraints did remain a substantial headwind.
Outside of that isolated sector we saw a generally better year-over-year comparisons throughout the remainder of C&amp;I.
Importantly that's also true for our European hand tools business SNA Europe.
You remember that this is an area that's been a substantial headwind for quite some time.
Well in the third quarter SNA Europe was down only slightly a significant upgrade from the deeper downturns in past periods and encouraging evidence of possible stabilization in that region.
So I'd summarize the overall environment like this the challenges of the military cutbacks continue and of course the situation in Washington creates a further overhang for the military.
That's difficult to predict.
But our areas of strength are holding firm and the European contraction one of our primary headwinds appears to be abating.
But economic environment notwithstanding we believe that by focusing on 4 defined and decisive areas: enhancing the franchise network expanding in the garage building in emerging markets and extending into critical industries we will continue to move down our runways for growth and maintain our long-term encouraging trend.
Paired with those growth drivers we also have our Snap-on Value Creation processes: safety quality customer connection innovation and rapid continuous improvement or RCI.
These are the tools we use each and every day to drive improvement and growth.
I believe that this quarter's results demonstrate clearly the progress we're making in each of those dimensions.
Consider customer connection and innovation Snap-on has again in 2013 won 3 MOTOR Magazine Top 20 Tool Awards.
This year's winners were our AC400 touchless wheel clamp that greatly limits rim damage; the VERUS PRO diagnostic unit our top of the line handheld; and the new flip socket that incorporates an 8-millimeter and 10-millimeter socket all into one tool.
I've spoken about each of these products in the past but I mentioned the award because this is just the latest accolade for the long list of what we call hip new products those that sell more than $1 million in the first year.
They drive excitement with our customers and they author our growth.
You see Snap-on has unique customer connection advantage over 4 800 vans calling on well over 1 million technicians worldwide and many more direct salespeople calling on thousands of critical workplace.
And we translate that unique insight into winning innovation.
And all of that all of that worked for us in the third quarter.
With that backdrop let's turn to the discussion of the segments.
C&amp;I's organic sales were down 0.9% from last year.
Actually that comparison is quite a bit better than the 5% to 6% declines we had in each period starting in the fourth quarter last year.
What did remain consistent is the double digit decline in military activity.
As I said however -- said before however in the third quarter SNA Europe's comparison got better and the other operations provided more offset.
But again this quarter in spite of the declines -- overall decline in sales operating income was up by $2.6 million or 120 basis points to $36 million up 120 basis points despite the sales decline to 13.1% of sales.
I believe the profit increase in the face of the overall sales drop is clear evidence that RCI is working well at C&amp;I in Commercial &amp; Industrial.
Aside from the European and military activity that I've already mentioned C&amp;I also includes those businesses that are responsible for the lion's share of the growth initiatives extending to critical industries and building in emerging markets of Asia Pacific and we did see important progress.
Related to Asia we saw some nice increases.
Our businesses in China and Korea and Thailand posted notable upward movement in the quarter.
Both hand tools and undercar equipment made clear progress across the region with the equipment activity confirming the capabilities of our recently opened undercar plant in Kunshan.
Some of you have visited there.
In our industrial division the extension into our critical natural resources sector provides -- has been providing favorable offset to the military declines with much of that activity also spurring international growth.
Our expanding offering of tools brought together into specialized kits and paired with unique tool control solution is building our presence in oil and gas operations on land and on sea in Mexico in South America in the Middle East and in the U.S.
in multiple geographies.
Also related to critical industries Snap-on's got a -- has a large and growing presence in technical schools all across America.
You see we believe that having future professionals trained with Snap-on products provides another important customer connection advantage.
With continuing graduations and with new classes entering the third quarter always provides important insight into our progress in the education sector and we did see gains in this period.
With our broadening certification programs we partner with schools to develop curricula.
The schools use our tools and equipment in their labs.
We gain additional insight that helps guide our product innovation and along the way we make the students customers for life building a reservoir for sales as we go forward.
That's C&amp;I.
That provides a bit of color on C&amp;I.
Now on to the Tools Group.
Organic sales were up 9.5% from last year with the gains coming from all geographies.
Operating income in the quarter was 41.9% compared to $40.2 million in the -- $41.9 million compared to $40.2 million in 2012.
The operating margin was 12.6% compared with 13% last year reflecting increased investment in focused activities that are enhancing our van network and driving that substantial growth.
I'll remind you that even through the downturn of 2009 we made it a priority to strengthen the franchise channel and we believe there's substantial evidence that we did just that.
The health metrics we monitor each period whether it's franchisee profitability turnover or delinquencies are all broadly favorable.
And certainly the growth rates for this business over an extended period speak to abundant strength and to widening advantage.
But beyond the numbers beyond those numbers there's observable qualitative evidence of forward momentum.
Take this year's franchisee conference held in Nashville during August it was even more successful.
Now that's a barometer that indicates our franchisees are more positive than ever.
These conferences are part selling show part training seminar and part pep rally and the recent edition and -- at Nashville was the biggest and most enthusiastic yet.
I'll also point out that the franchisees pay their own way to come taking time away from their home and from their businesses.
So in that context the more than 10% rise in attendance speaks to the state of the business and the height of the network's confidence.
I'll also tell you that our orders were up even more than the attendance.
It's not only an indication of franchisee optimism but it's also an endorsement of our innovative product offerings.
I often speak of the new products that enable sales and that's certainly the case with our array of productivity-enhancing handheld diagnostic units.
And that lineup we've had quite a string of hits the SOLUS Ultra in 2011; the VERUS PRO in 2012; and this year the ETHOS Plus; the MICROSCAN 3 and our new MODIS Ultra all making the repair job easier and faster and driving van sales gains.
There's also a number of highly successful and creative marketing and customer connection initiatives driving our sales gain most notably related to the tools -- most notably related to the tool storage units the -- our Rock 'N Roll Cab Express traveling showrooms that have been a big part of higher sales and we keep expanding our fleet of those game-changing selling aids.
And I believe I mentioned last quarter we've launched another marketing support vehicle our techno van bringing sophisticated diagnostic expertise and demonstrations right to the point of sale.
We kicked that program off in the second quarter and it kept right on expanding.
Rock N' Roll cabs techno vans we're finding effective ways very effective ways to enhance the power of the van network and the sales.
They -- it's working.
Finally related to the van channel I'd be missing a huge competitor and a major strategic advantage if I didn't mention Snap-on Credit.
Many of those innovative products the largest ticket items are financed.
In that way Snap-on Credit is a big growth enabler.
And as you would expect the credit operation had a strong presence at the franchisee conference in Nashville providing effective training teaching franchisees to wield credit more strongly and making our finance activity an even greater strategic contributor.
So that's tools.
Now to the RS&amp;I Group.
Total sales were up 13.7% including a 6.7% organic increase and a $15.6 million increase from the Challenger Lift acquisition.
The operating margin at 22.9% rose from 22.3% last year another testimony to the power of RCI.
If you want to talk about Snap-on value creation rapid continuous improvement to customer connection to innovation RS&amp;I is a great example.
RS&amp;I is charged with expanding our presence with repair shop owners and managers and there was broad expansion.
We again had strong growth in our businesses providing repair and -- repair information and diagnostics to independents and we appear to be gaining traction across many dimensions in automotive medium and heavy duty -- in automotive medium and in heavy duty garages serving both those independent repair shops as well as OEM dealerships all fueled by our expanding product line.
First I'll note that 2 of the MOTOR Top 20 winners were developed within RCI -- 4 of those shop customers.
But when you're speaking of RS&amp;I new products there's much much more.
Let me give you a few highlights.
Our new MODIS Ultra handheld well targeted by customer connection combining the fast operation and functionality of our highly successful SOLUS Ultra but with added capabilities such as a graphing meter and scope at an attractive price.
It includes a larger touchscreen a faster processor expert information an array of guided component tests and the battery charges while it's hooked up to the vehicle a very very popular feature.
Early reception has been strong and it looks like it's going to be a big hit.
New products are also fueling global expansion in RS&amp;I.
We're just launching our first handheld diagnostic unit for Brazil the PDL 4000.
We've done it by leveraging information from across RS&amp;I.
We've been able to localize -- by doing that we've been able to localize vehicle information and cover the majority of the Brazilian car part.
The result has been an effective unit available at an attractive price and we expect it's going to help us build a bigger position in an emerging market.
It's already doing some of that.
For the U.S.
automotive shops Mitchell 1 launched an update to our ProDemand repair information suite.
It features a revised user dashboard that allows technicians and their customers easy access and better visibility to maintenance service schedules.
It's an upgrade that will support improved shop productivity and profitability and it will be popular.
A word about heavy-duty truck shops where we continue to make good gains with our repair information.
That's where we recently launched a new Pocket iQ light diagnostic software product.
It's the must-have tool for the aftermarket developed and ideally suited for truck shops performing preventive maintenance.
It monitors essential engine signals and it even has the capability to adjust some basic vehicle settings.
We've also seen some nice movement serving the automotive OEMs in their dealerships.
Just in the past quarter we expanded our electronic parts catalog capabilities and began wider relationships with large OEMs reaching beyond North America and Europe into several of today's emerging markets a big breakthrough.
Finally we just launched a new V3400 wheel aligner developed using our customer connection and innovation processes specifically designed for high-end independent and OEM garages.
It includes wireless communication that provides flexibility and simplifies installation has smaller and lighter targets resulting in space and ease-of-use advantages.
And it incorporates our award-winning touchless wheel clamp that eliminates wheel damage.
We believe it represents another winning product for RS&amp;I and equipment expansion.
So there are a lot of activities big and small.
But all important to our gains in serving garage owners and managers and you can see it in this quarter's results.
Well that's the highlights of our third quarter.
Organic sales up 4.7% despite the headwinds; the Challenger acquisition contributing well; progress along each of our runways for growth; and the Snap-on value creation driving us down our runway for improvement; OI margin up 130 basis points.
It was an encouraging quarter.
Now I'll turn the call over to Aldo.
Aldo? Thanks Nick and good morning to all those on the call.
Our third quarter consolidated operating results are summarized on Slide 6.
Net sales of $753.2 million in the quarter increased $41.6 million or 5.8% from 2012 levels.
On an organic basis sales increased 4.7% excluding $15.6 million of sales from Challenger Lifts and an unfavorable $7.3 million impact from foreign currency translation.
The year-over-year organic sales increase primarily reflects continued higher sales in the Snap-on Tools Group along with increased sales of diagnostics and repair information products as well as higher sales to OEM dealerships.
These sales increases more than offset lower sales to the military and slightly lower sales in our European-based hand tool business.
Consolidated gross profit of $364.3 million increased $23.9 million from 2012 levels.
Gross margin of 48.4% improved 60 basis points largely due to savings from ongoing rapid continuous improvement or RCI initiatives.
Operating expenses of $253 million increased $8.8 million and the operating expense margin of 33.6% improved 70 basis points from 34.3% last year primarily due to benefits from sales volume leverage savings from ongoing RCI initiatives and lower restructuring costs.
Total restructuring costs in the quarter of $1.7 million compared with $2.3 million last year.
As a result of these factors operating earnings before financial services of $111.3 million in the quarter increased 15.7% and as a percentage of sales improved 130 basis points to 14.8%.
Operating earnings from financial services of $31.6 million increased 13.3% over prior year levels.
Consolidated operating earnings of $142.9 million increased 15.1% over 2012 levels and the operating margin of 17.9% improved 140 basis points from 16.5% a year ago.
Our third quarter effective income tax rate of 32.6% compares with 32.3% last year.
We continue to expect that our full year 2013 effective tax rate will be comparable to our 2012 full year rate of 32.8%.
Finally net earnings in the quarter of $84.6 million or $1.43 per diluted share compared to net earnings of $74.1 million or $1.26 per share last year representing a 13.5% year-over-year increase in diluted earnings per share.
Now let's turn to our segment results starting with the Commercial &amp; Industrial or C&amp;I Group on Slide 7.
Sales of $275.2 million were down 0.9% organically from 2012 levels primarily due to a double digit decline in sales to the military coupled with a slight decline in sales in the segment's European-based hand tools business.
As Nick mentioned our C&amp;I business in Europe is showing some signs of stabilization which is encouraging.
Gross profit in the C&amp;I Group totaled $104.8 million in the quarter.
Gross margin of 38.1% improved 110 basis points from 37% last year primarily due to savings from ongoing RCI initiatives particularly in Europe.
Operating expenses of $68.8 million in the quarter declined $1.5 million from prior year levels primarily due to lower restructuring costs and the operating expense margin of 25% improved slightly from 25.1% last year.
As a result of these factors third quarter operating earnings of $36 million for the C&amp;I segment increased $2.6 million from 2012 levels and the operating margin of 13.1% improved 120 basis points from 11.9% last year.
Turning now to Slide 8.
Third quarter sales in the Snap-on Tools Group of $333.8 million increased 9.5% organically reflecting increases across both our U.S.
and international franchise operations.
Gross profit of $142.8 million increased $11.5 million from 2012 levels and the gross margin of 42.8% improved 30 basis points from 42.5% last year.
Operating expenses of $100.9 million in the quarter increased $9.8 million from 2012 levels primarily due to higher volume-related and other expenses including focused investment in growth initiatives aimed at enhancing the franchise network.
The operating expense margin of 30.2% increased 70 basis points from 29.5% last year.
Accordingly operating earnings of $41.9 million for the Snap-on Tools Group increased $1.7 million over prior year levels.
The third quarter operating margin of 12.6% compared with 13% last year.
Turning to the Repair Systems &amp; Information or RS&amp;I Group shown on Slide 9.
Sales of $252.7 million increased 13.8% from 2012 levels including $15.6 million of sales from the Challenger acquisition.
Excluding the Challenger sales and $0.2 million of favorable foreign currency translation organic sales in the quarter increased $14.9 million or 6.7% primarily due to a double digit gain in sales of diagnostics and repair information products and a high single digit gain in sales to OEM dealerships.
Gross profit of $116.7 million in the quarter increased $11.3 million over prior year levels.
Gross margin of 46.2% reflects a 130 basis point decrease from 2012 levels primarily due to the impact of lower gross margin Challenger products partially offset by continued savings from ongoing RCI initiatives.
Operating expenses totaled $58.8 million in the quarter and the operating expense margin of 23.3% improved 190 basis points from 2012 levels primarily due to contributions from sales volume leverage including the impact of the sale of Challenger products that have a lower operating expense ratio and savings from ongoing RCI initiatives.
Third quarter operating earnings of $57.9 million for the RS&amp;I Group increased $8.4 million from prior year levels and the operating margin of 22.9% increased 60 basis points from 22.3% last year.
Now turning to Slide 10.
In the third quarter earnings from financial services increased 13.3% and originations of $205 million rose 14.2% year-over-year.
Revenues in the quarter increased 11.4% primarily due to continued growth of the financial services portfolio and higher average yields.
The average yield on finance receivables of 17.4% in the quarter increased 30 basis points from 17.1% last year and the average yield on contract receivables of 9.6% in the quarter increased 10 basis points from 2012 levels.
Moving to Slide 11.
Our quarter end balance sheet includes approximately $1.2 billion of gross financing receivables including $1 billion from our U.S.
Snap-on Credit operation and $182 million from our international finance subsidiaries.
In the U.S.
$813 million or approximately 80% of the financing portfolio relates to extended credit loans to technicians.
Year-to-date our worldwide financial services portfolio grew approximately $121 million.
For the 2013 full year we anticipate that the portfolio will increase by approximately $135 million over 2012 year-end levels.
As for finance portfolio losses and delinquency trends these continue to be in line with our expectations.
Now turning to Slide 12.
Cash provided by operations of $84.3 million in the quarter increased $14.6 million from $69.7 million last year.
There were no discretionary contributions to our U.S.
pension plan in the quarter as compared to last year when we made a $16 million discretionary U.S.
pension contribution.
Investing activities in the quarter included cash used of $34.3 million support a net increase in finance receivables.
Capital expenditures of $19.3 million in the quarter compared with capital expenditures of $19.7 million last year.
We expect that full year capital expenditures will approximate $75 million.
Turning to Slide 13.
Days sales outstanding for trade receivables of 62 days compares to 61 days at 2012 year end.
Excluding currency impacts inventories increased $41.9 million from 2012 levels primarily to support continued higher customer demand with improved service levels new product introductions and inventories related to the Challenger acquisition.
On a trailing 12-month basis inventory turns of 3.7x compared with 3.9x at year end.
Our quarter end cash position of $182.5 million reflects the year-to-date net funding of $108.7 million of finance receivables share repurchases of $67.5 million dividend payments of $66.5 million the acquisition of Challenger for $38.2 million and capital expenditures of $50.7 million.
These uses of cash were largely offset by $270.1 million of cash generated from operations including higher levels of net income.
Our net debt to capital ratio of 28.6% compares to 29.7% at 2012 year-end.
In addition to our $182 million of cash and expected cash flow from operations we have more than $700 million in available credit facilities including our recently concluded 5-year revolving credit facility.
Our current short-term credit ratings allow us to access the commercial paper market should we choose to do so.
At quarter end no amounts were outstanding under any of these facilities.
This concludes my remarks on our third quarter performance.
I'll now turn the call over to Nick for his closing thoughts.
Nick? Thanks Aldo.
I would say the third quarter is more confirmation on the strength of our business model and on the opportunities available along our runways.
Of course there are headwinds.
The military is turbulent and Europe though stabilizing is not yet cured.
But despite those challenges our sales in the period were up 5.8%.
We are moving down our runways for growth.
Rock 'N Roll cabs and techno vans enhancing the van network the Challenger acquisition and new diagnostic product reaching more shops our success in oil and gas and in creating customers for life our growing presence in places like China and Brazil all of that is compelling testimony to our ongoing growth potential and to our progress in taking advantage of those abundant opportunities.
And we're also moving down our runway for improvement.
C&amp;I and SNA Europe higher profitability despite lower sales.
And the overall corporation and op co OI margin of 14.8% up 130 basis points clear evidence of Snap-on value creation and its ongoing benefits.
We are encouraged by the third quarter results achieved against challenge but we believe that substantial opportunity remains and that our favorable trends and long-term progress will continue as we move forward.
Before I turn the call to questions it's appropriate that I recognize those who made these results possible our franchisees and associates.
Once again -- I know many of you always listen to this call.
I know you're listening today.
For your extraordinary skill in driving our progress you have my admiration.
And for your extraordinary commitment and dedication to our team you have my thanks.
Now I'll turn the call over to the operator.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from David Leiker with Baird.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
I want to start with on the Snap-on Tools business and it's nice to see the strong organic growth across all the businesses here in the quarter.
I wanted to zero in on the SG&amp;A number here.
I mean I think if I look at the numbers correctly the SG&amp;A as a percent of that segment sales have been falling or declining and this is a change from that pattern.
So are these the incremental initiatives of what you've been doing just more of them or broadening them geographically? Can you help some color -- give us some color there? Sure.
Look I think the thing is the principal activity here is the investments in the -- what we would broadly say our actions which are breaking through the structural disadvantages of the van.
One easy one to remember -- you'll all remember is the Rock 'N Roll cab.
The van is constrained by size.
You can only put a couple of tool storage boxes on them therefore the Rock 'N Roll cabs allow -- add more marketing space at the point of sale from time to time.
It breaks through it.
It drives more sales.
We've gone up.
I think the number that we have almost 50 over -- we were in the 40s last time and -- about 40 of them last quarter.
So we've gone up quite a bit.
In fact we're in the 30s last time.
So you see that.
And then this time we're launching the techno vans.
Last time I think we had 3 or 4 at the end of the quarter now we have 10.
And the techno vans are diagnostics and there is quite a bit of training around this.
Not only are the vans heavily facilitized because you have all of the equipment on the vans which help you demonstrate the diagnostics to their fullest but there's a lot of training associated with the van drivers themselves because you have to have guys on those vans that have to make the diagnostics sit up and do dog tricks.
And then there are a number of other things in there this quarter smaller items which have helped us in that regard.
And then I would offer the idea that the SFC was bigger and better than ever before and we had 10% more 10% more attendance.
That 10% drives more expense.
And in fact we planned it to be bigger with more training and more selling and so on and more sales space.
And all of that rolls up to an investment.
Actually from our perspective I'm very encouraged by this because what I view it as -- I would classify it in the old football saw as run to daylight.
We've asked the Tools Group to -- when they see opportunity to run to it to the spend to take advantage of it and that's what they've been doing.
And it's been resulting pretty well.
If you look at the Tools Group's numbers David over the last several quarters the third quarters are like this.
In 2010 they were up 10.5%.
'11 they were up 6% 11.1% last year so this wasn't an easy comparison.
They were up 9.5% again.
So we're not so worried about the SG&amp;A.
We like the idea of spending to get those sales.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's useful.
And then your tool business is up close to 10% Stanley yesterday said that Mac Tools was up close to 10%.
It's hard for you 2 players to be growing that -- take that much market share.
So are these finding ways to get to more customers out there who haven't been accessed before? And I'm talking about the 2 of you combined here because the market just isn't growing that fast is it? I don't think so.
I can't speak to their number.
I think they said they were up high single digits.
I don't know what the exact number was so I am...
Research Division</strong> High single digits.
Yes right.
So I'm not sure exactly what the number is.
There are a number of things that can flow through in terms of the different products that can be selling and the sources of those products that will result in driving Stanley sales depending on how they come out on the Mac vans.
The market is nice but we're pretty sure that we are reaching more customers and selling more to the same customers.
I can tell you that our van drivers are more excited about our proposition.
I was just in Saratoga New York riding around on a van with Greg Dolan [ph] up there and he was very enthusiastic about our products and its prospects.
And his customers were positive about what he does for them.
So we feel very good about both those engines driving the tools sales reaching more people and also selling more to the same customers.
That's what's happening in both of these places.
And part of it is productivity giving the van driver more time to sell reaching more customers; and two breaking through some of the structural disadvantages like space and technical expertise that can only -- that one man can only have so much technical expertise on the van and that's been driving this increase.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then one last item on the C&amp;I segment on the military.
Q4 -- I know your business had been declining already last year going into Q4 but the fourth quarter was the first big decline.
So anniversary-ing around that is there a way you can characterize your Q3 military volumes versus what they were in Q4 of last year? Is that flattening out? Are we still seeing declines? And I know overall it's a small piece.
I hate to comment on any kind of trajectory around the military given the turbulence in Washington these days.
Who knows where it's going.
I mean look we had a -- the fourth quarter has always been our biggest quarter.
We took a big shot in that the fourth quarter last year.
I had said that we're going to see -- I know I said on these calls that we're going to have probably lighter comparisons going forward.
Yes but the atmosphere gets -- got worse and worse and so we've been seeing some big headwinds -- maybe not as big as the fourth quarter but some big headwinds in the third quarter as well third quarter of this year not as big as the fourth quarter last year but still pretty significant that's moving the needle.
And we'll take our next question from Gary Prestopino with Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I've got a question on the Tools Group with the solid growth there.
Could you maybe categorize or break that out between U.S.
-- and I guess it's -- U.K.
is where you have the franchise business.
Was a lot of this the U.K.
snapping back more strongly than...
No.
Yes go ahead.
Finish your question.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No go ahead.
That's fine.
Look if you look at it broadly if you look at it broadly international U.S.
kind of the same Gary kind of the same.
If you landscape the international business -- as you know for the Tools Group like Canada U.K.
Australia and so on we had some goes-ins and goes-outs.
The U.K.
was up nicely as well.
In fact our overall business if you roll it all together one of the things we're kind of happy about in terms of our -- one of the things that's positive -- we're happy about is the U.K.
actually did snap back but it's not driving -- our overall business in the U.K.
including SNA Europe and the Tools Group and other businesses that sell in the U.K.
are up double digits.
But for the Tools Group it's not driving that -- not influencing that 9.5% not influencing it.
It's in that ballpark.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> In terms of -- could you maybe talk about or give us some metrics surrounding growth in the emerging markets and what percentage of your sales that is now? Look it's north of 10% now I'd say in low double digits you'd say now.
And every quarter you get kind of -- because you're spread over lots of emerging markets you get kind of goes-in and goes-outs.
We had -- as I said I think in the script we had a good quarter in China good quarter in China nice quarter in Thailand good one in Korea.
We had a fine quarter in Brazil.
Some of the others were weaker.
For example the Philippines was weak for us this year.
But in general we're at 11% -- not 11% but it's the low single digits and we're growing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you just remind me Aldo the finance receivables versus contract receivables what's the difference there? A finance receivable Gary is when Snap-on Credit finances an end customer who is a customer of the franchisees so in other words a technician a mechanic out on the shop floor.
A contract receivable is when Snap-on directly finances a garage shop owner or a franchisee themselves.
So the receivable is directly between Snap-on and the party versus a third party.
And we'll take our next question from Richard Hilgert with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations on the award during the quarter to MOTOR Magazine.
That was good accomplishment but something that -- obviously with the technology is something that isn't out of the realm of possibilities.
I wanted to ask about the restructuring costs.
Was any of that in the Tools segment? Or was all of it in the C&amp;I segment? Very little actually in this quarter.
I'd say it's -- Roger (sic) [Richard] Aldo here.
It was a little bit in the RS&amp;I segment actually and then the Commercial &amp; Industrial Group.
There was a smidgen so to speak in the Tools Group.
So this wasn't really a big restructuring quarter for us.
Research Division</strong> Right.
It was $1.7 million you said? Right.
That's correct.
Overall it was $1.7 million as compared to $2.3 million for the corporation last year.
Research Division</strong> All right okay.
With the shutdown that we just experienced in the government will there be any impact from that in any kind of government contracts that you might have in the fourth quarter? Well I don't know.
I mean the thing is is that I think you can speculate yourself.
First of all we usually -- we don't give guidance or anything like that but look we have a military business.
I would say anybody who's got direct business with the government would be wondering whether it would be effect going forward.
But they did solve the problem now so whether that plays out quickly enough to eliminate any overhang I'm not so sure.
What I would say though is that through the quarters we've had we've seen an overhang from sequestration in the military business and the government business and it's hard to predict whether that will get positive -- whether that will get more negative as we go forward.
I would suppose if this is not solved and they don't snap back quickly it could get more negative.
But I think that's very shaky shaky to predict.
We've been dealing with a kind of difficulty in that area for some time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One last question.
The inner segment eliminations for revenues went up quite a bit this quarter.
Just curious what was the activity there that drove that? Well it tends to revolve around the SFC the Snap-on Franchisee Conference where you bring all these guys together the franchise -- remember I said it's part selling show.
They order some of those sales get in the quarter.
And what that means is some of the other segments for example the diagnostics groups or the C&amp;I Group will provide products they provide products to the Tools Group and that tends to ramp up during this period.
And that's what you're seeing in here.
And we'll take our next question from Liam Burke with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Nick you talked about emerging markets in the C&amp;I business picking up some of the slack where you had other areas of weakness.
Is it the same end markets? Is it oil and gas in emerging markets? Or is it some other critical industry? No no.
It's broad broad.
And when we say emerging markets we really mean the whole Shamil [ph] like automotive automotive repair.
We would call automotive repair by the way a critical industry.
It's just that it's not handled within our standard definition.
There is criticality around automotive repair.
But it's automotive repair oil and gas aviation in some cases the military -- foreign military and power generation.
So it's broadly based.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And you had a lot of new product releases around the diagnostics.
Those products are typically smaller.
Are you generating similar margins to the -- to what your traditional diagnostic product line? Yes yes.
I don't think -- look I think the products we mentioned which are handheld diagnostics and for heavy truck and for automotive there isn't much margin difference between those 2 segments I would say.
So if you're talking about like products reaching into different segments like diagnostics or software they're pretty much the same types of margins.
The margin variation in the RS&amp;I Group comes from the sort of essential tool businesses that we sell to OEM dealerships that can be a little smaller and the undercar equipment businesses which can -- are hardware-based and tend to attract lower margins than say the software businesses.
But in general there's no implied motion period-to-period quarter-to-quarter year-to-year by those.
That we have talked about today.
And we'll take our next question from David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
Nick you were asked earlier about the sequestration on military and the government shutdown on military.
I guess I wanted to approach that question a little bit differently and just see if you saw any slowdown in channel velocity through your franchisees in the second half of September.
Well we usually don't comment on month by month but I will offer this.
When I go out -- and like I said I was just on a van up in upstate New York I was just with the national franchise conference -- our franchise advisory council last weekend.
And as -- they represent -- there's franchisees there's 12 of them they represent every region of our country.
I saw nothing but optimism.
So my suggestion about the effects of this uncertainty broadly described around the shutdown and the debt ceiling and the sequestration I believe is not weighing as heavily on smaller businesses that we're seeing that are -- remember we're operating in criticality.
So the small businesses operating in criticality whether you're talking about technicians or franchisees or repair shop owners they seem to be anesthetized to the bad news.
As I move up in size the businesses they seem to be more burdened by the uncertainty.
The bigger businesses the more uncertain they are.
And then of course anybody who's dealing directly with the business like our military business of course that business gets shut down a little bit.
So that's what we're seeing.
If you talk about the effects of sequestration and the shutdown of the government and the debt ceiling and the whole idea that this is going to come up again in February and all this news sure this is something we watch but we are not wringing our hands over it.
Okay.
You were asked earlier as well about the emerging markets.
I just want to go back and pick up on that.
If you could just talk about the profitability of the emerging markets business and how's that changing.
The emerging -- look if you look at -- it's a -- the emerging market business is about as profitable as the rest of the businesses.
Let's say in C&amp;I emerging market is a big piece of our business -- a big piece of our emerging market business in C&amp;I.
It's about as profitable as that business.
It's about as profitable as the businesses reflected in the segment for those product lines.
The geography of the profitability is different lower gross margin lower SG&amp;A or lower operating expense usually.
And then we can parse that there's a pre-investment on top of it that tends to put a little bit of drag on it and that investment keeps going as we keep expanding.
But if you look at the business as it occurs transaction by transaction you say this is just as profitable as all the rest of our businesses.
So we're very encouraged by that.
Okay.
On Europe can you -- on Europe you've -- I think you've talked in the past it's roughly about 1/3 of that C&amp;I segment right? Say that again I didn't quite catch it.
I'm sorry.
The European business we think of that as being...
About 1/3 yes.
About 1/3 of the C&amp;I business.
So I guess the question is it sounds like it's stabilizing that's encouraging.
When that business comes back and you get a little further down the road you're running at close to full capacity what can the European business generate in terms of margins? What would you think of as peak margin capability for that business? Well actually I don't think we've ever spoken to the margins of the European business in isolation.
But certainly you will be entitled to the fact that we know these -- we've said these things.
The European business was down drastically.
It was wounded.
We have pushed on it and pulled on it and worked RCI on it over the years.
Remember it really never -- it came out of the recession briefly in 2010 then sort of dipped back in at the end of 2011 went back to double digit reductions and kept going.
But through that period we were working RCI but we were very careful to say one we didn't see our customers disappear; two we didn't actually take out capacity.
We kept capacity there because we're confident the business comes back and what that means is we have lowered breakeven.
And I would suggest to you that the idea that it is more profitable on even lower sales is good arithmetic and quantitative testimony to the fact that works pretty well.
When volume comes back and they start to see some good numbers it will accrue relatively well to the bottom line like any of our businesses I believe.
And what's happening in Europe actually is kind of interesting.
Northern Europe has come back.
We're -- particularly England double digit growth for our businesses overall in England.
Very good in the north Sweden Norway up very well.
The middle countries like Germany and France France still down but narrowed a little bit.
And then the periphery contributing like the Maghreb countries and Turkey and so on contributing well.
So you still see that Europe is not yet cured but it's stabilizing in the middle and the north actually seems to -- at least in this quarter seems to have turned a little bit of a corner.
That accrues well for us based on where our cost structure is.
So what you're saying is essentially because of the lower breakeven you think as volume comes back your margins will recover faster there than they would elsewhere in the business? I think you'd be in -- I think you'd be entitled to that assertion yes -- to that thought yes.
Okay.
That's good.
Last question.
Just you talked about the OEM dealerships being a bigger part of your business can you just talk about what you're seeing in terms of business trends there? Are the OEM dealerships likely to be a stronger part of your business going forward? And what are the implications for your RS&amp;I mix? No actually I -- correct me -- let me come back.
The OEM dealerships our business with the OEM dealerships electronic parts catalogs and this essential tools business were up -- I think I said were up strongly in the quarter.
But our sales to independents -- Mitchell 1 the software business the diagnostics business these are software-based businesses that take advantage of our reservoir of data about the independent -- the car part that independents need so badly those were up strong double digits.
And so actually I wouldn't say our business is changing.
It was growing in the OEMs but it also grew in the independents.
So I wouldn't say the mix changed this quarter just both moved for us.
And at this time there are no other questions in queue.
I'll turn the call back over to Leslie Kratcoski.
Great thanks.
We'll wrap up our call today.
A replay of it will be available on snapon.com shortly.
And as always thanks for your interest in Snap-on and for joining us today.
Goodbye.
That concludes today's conference call.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Snap-on Incorporated 2013 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Leslie Kratcoski Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Cameron and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to review our fourth quarter results which are detailed in our press release issued earlier today.
We have on the call today Nick Pinchuk Snap-on's Chief Executive Officer; and Aldo Pagliari Snap-on's Chief Financial Officer.
Nick will kick off our call this morning and with his perspective on our performance.
Aldo will then provide a more detailed review of our financial results.
After Nick provides some closing thoughts we'll take your questions.
As usual we've provided slides to supplement our discussion.
You can find a copy of these slides on our website next the audio icon for the call.
These slides will be archived on our website along with the transcript of today's call.
Any statements made during this call relative to management's expectations estimates or beliefs or otherwise state management's or the company's outlook plans or projections are forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those made in such statements.
Additional information and the factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are contained in our SEC filings.
With that said I'd now like to call -- turn the call over to Nick Pinchuk.
Nick? Thanks Leslie.
Good morning everybody.
Look I'll start by covering the highlights of our fourth quarter and of our year.
I'll give you our perspective on the results on our markets and the progress we've made.
Then Aldo will move into -- as usual Aldo will move into a more detailed review of the financials.
Our fourth quarter is a story of reaching new customers energizing existing customers with innovative products and creating value by operating more effectively -- more productivity I believe is strong evidence of Snap-on advancing along our runway through both growth and for improvement.
Our EPS in the quarter was $1.60 up from $1.43 in 2012.
That rise reflects an opco operating margin of 15.5% an increase of 70 basis points.
It also includes $33 million of financial service earnings.
Taken together the consolidated operating margin reached 18.5% compared to 17.7% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The operating improvement came on organic sales growth of 4.6%.
When you add in $15.2 million the contribution from Challenger Lifts which you'll recall we acquired earlier in 2013 overall sales in the quarter were $797.5 million a rise of 5.9% which overcame a 70-basis point impact from unfavorable foreign currency translation.
That activity represents the continuation of a generally favorable environment for the Tools Group and for the Repair Systems &amp; Information or RS&amp;I Group.
These are the operations serving our automotive repair and related customers and as you may remember that sector has been leaning favorably for quite some time.
Encouragingly though in the Commercial &amp; Industrial or C&amp;I group we saw additional confirmation of easing in our European headwinds.
I think it's fair to say that the growth at our European-based hand tools business SNA Europe up in the high-single-digit range is the biggest highlight for us in the quarter with respect to market dynamic anyway.
Now one quarter of growth doesn't make a trend.
And that region's been down and unpredictable for an extended period.
But this quarter's increase was a breath of fresh air.
On the other hand military activity did remain a strong headwind.
Nothing's really changed on that front.
The combination of troop withdrawals and budgetary restrictions continue to create a difficult environment and it doesn't show signs of rebounding anytime soon.
So to wrap up the broad discussion on markets other than the initial spark in Europe I'd summarize things as relatively similar to past quarters.
But we do believe that no matter the environment we have the opportunity and the capability to advance our position.
We continue to progress along our 4 defined runways for growth: enhancing the franchise channel; expanding Snap-on's presence in the garage; extending into critical industries; and building on emerging markets.
And when coupled with the Snap-on value creation of processes of safety quality customer connection innovation and rapid continuous improvement or RCI we achieved decisive progress.
And we believe the results over the past several years and again in 2013 showed just that.
That progress can be seen -- and that progress can be seen in the full year absolute as well as the longer term trend of improvement.
Speaking of full year Snap-on's EPS for 2013 was $5.93 an increase of 14% from 2012.
Driving those earnings was an opco operating margin of 15.1% up 120 basis points for the year.
When we include the income from our financial services which was $125.7 million which rose $19 million from 2012 the consolidated operating margin of 18.1% was up 140 basis points.
That performance came on sales of $3.1 billion a 4% year-over-year increase that was made up of 3.5% organic growth $39.3 million in sales from Challenger Lifts and 80 basis points of unfavorable foreign currency.
Through the year gains in the Tools Group and RS&amp;I were somewhat offset by the external headwinds that primarily impacted the C&amp;I group.
Although it is worth mentioning that the second half organic sales increase was 4.7% as the European headwind abated.
So there was a generally improving trend as the year progressed.
So that's the overview of the quarter and the year.
Now let's move to a discussion of the individual segments.
In the C&amp;I group organic sales were up 3.8% in spite of the continuing military challenges.
That gain was authored by the improvement at SNA Europe which I already mentioned as well as favorable comparisons across the balance of the operations in our Asia-Pacific business in the critical industries outside of the military and with our power tools driven by innovative new products.
From an earnings perspective C&amp;I operating income of $37.1 million increased $5.2 million compared to the prior period.
That represents a margin rate of 13.1% or an expansion of 150 basis points.
The benefits from RCI are evident across the C&amp;I businesses.
And this quarter with volume growth at SNA Europe the improved cost structure in that operation really shined through.
C&amp;I is where we have the most attention-related -- and in C&amp;I is where we had the most attention related to building in emerging markets and extending into the critical industries.
Our progress along those runways and the benefits from Snap-on value creation could be seen once again this quarter.
You can see it in our results.
For emerging markets China and Indonesia led the way with that growth being in enabled in part by our newest plant ramping up production of undercar equipment for China and the region.
But our focus isn't just in Asia we also saw a good expansion in other emerging regions.
For example SNA Europe's business in Turkey recorded another encouraging quarter in that important market.
Another highlight was our natural resources business which is up strongly in the quarter.
We continue to broaden our lineup for industries like oil and gas and it's paying off.
I'll give you a prime example of how it works.
Our customer connection and innovation processes came together to make work easier for oil and gas professionals supporting our extension into that critical industry.
The result is our new adjustable wrench and valve persuaders aimed specifically at those technicians providing a safe -- and providing a safe alternatives to the homemade versions that our salesmen noticed in many of the toolboxes at the north slope of Alaska came right out of direct observation in Alaska.
Taking input directly from those operators we combined the wide mouth heavy duty adjustable wrench with the persuader at opposite ends of the tool that enables the opening and closing of nearly every valve in an oil field.
It's now outfitting facilities across the globe building Snap-on's presence.
Now that product this product is just one.
Relatively small example but an easy one to understand and it demonstrates our ever-increasing line up of tools not only for oil fields but for places like deepwater drilling and for industry power plants all places where we're gaining traction.
And more and more our array of tools are being put together in specialized toolkits in unique tool control units equipped with top-of-the-line technology to serve critical industries.
Speaking of technology and of tool control this is an area that's really opened the doors for our extension into the critical aviation sector which is up nicely again in 2013.
Our advanced tool control units they continue to be a great halo product in that arena.
And when paired with our customized toolkits these unique solutions are at the foundation of our growth in aviation.
Snap-on's now able to better support maintenance facilities or production lines for airplanes or helicopters in all fleets commercial or corporate across the U.S.
and internationally.
Also speaking to innovation with applications across a whole host of tasks in 2013 we launched what we believe to be the best combination of power and speed in an industrial grade cordless ratchet.
It's built with the same well-known Snap-on strength standards as our hand tool ratchets and features over 3 000 inch pounds of manual torque capability.
And it has a digital variable speed trigger for the precise control needed in industrial application and a built-in brake that stops the tools from damaging sockets and fasteners.
This new product's a big hit.
And it demonstrates the clear Snap-on advantage.
One final point on innovation in C&amp;I and this is at SNA Europe.
The Bahco ERGO Tool Management System recently won an award for innovation at the EQUIP AUTO show in Paris.
This product aided by web design interfaces for the customer and the salesperson allows nearly infinite customization.
And it's not only the toolkit that can be specified -- it's not only the toolkit that can be specified for oil and gas or aviation or heavy duty applications it's also the foam inlays and the drawer configurations providing unique and efficient placement for the tools and specially designed spaces for PCs and tablets and printers that are now so frequently used in the modern field.
The Innovation Award was encouraging but more importantly this product helped drive SNA Europe's growth this quarter.
It's been -- and it's been especially well received in critical applications like oil and gas where expanding tool offering customization and standardization are really highly valued.
Now onto the Tools Group where we posted a strong 10.2% year-over-year organic sales increase this quarter with good growth in all geographies.
The operating earnings of $51 million represented a margin rate of 14.5% up 30 basis points from 2012.
Some years ago we set a goal of enhancing the franchise channel.
In that regard the results in the Tools Group continue to speak for themselves.
And I believe the state of that business is stronger than ever.
Once again -- and once again this year there was outside validation of that belief.
Snap-on continues to be consistently ranked in the top 25 of all networks by Franchise Business Review which measures franchisee satisfaction.
And we moved up again in Entrepreneur Magazine's Top 500 franchise list.
More importantly I think really the internal evidence supports the same positive view.
The franchisee metrics we monitor so closely are quite strong and they continued to trend favorably.
Our direct interaction with the franchisees the 2014 kick-off event that just took place the meetings of our Franchisee Advisory Council and our regular regional gatherings aimed at getting feedback and enhancing productivity all of them confirmed the growing strength of our network emphatically and it makes sense.
We have major sales and marketing initiatives like the Rock ‘N Roll Cab Express and the new Techno-Van they continue to expand driving excitement and sales.
Those traveling shows generate strong demand for our big ticket tool storage and handheld diagnostics they're all up.
But it's not just these big hitter marketing programs that are enabling improvement it's also the everyday focus customer connection and innovation creating new product after new product that builds our position.
For example in 2013 we introduced an all-new 36-long 1/2" breaker bar our longest ever.
With this new tool technician not only have extended reach and access but they can also apply more torque with less effort it makes the work easier as they break free the most difficult of fasteners.
The product has a wide range of applications but it's especially powerful in the critical heavy duty segment where it's particularly effective on truck engine heads and bulldozer track bolts.
This is just another one of the offerings that will make our hit parade list.
Those are the new products that sell more than $1 million in the first year.
It's a good example.
It sounds simple but innovation doesn't need to be earth shattering it just needs to make work easier and the opportunities in that regard keep continuing.
And of course Snap-on's uniquely positioned actually to gain customer connection insight with our franchisee network and our teams of salespeople visiting sites observing work bringing back ideas.
During 2013 the Tools Group alone launched more than 40 new products that were directly based on our feedback from professional users and our franchisees.
For example we recently developed the new thin-walled socket specifically designed to remove difficult fuel pressure sensors on many new vehicles.
The product concept came to us from a franchisee.
He noticed that the access to the sensors were often -- was often restricted and that technicians risk damage when they use standard tools.
So our new thin-walled socket will fix all that.
It's another good example of customer connection a knowledge of the practical and technical design capabilities innovation and understanding the possible coming together to create a winning product.
I'll just mention one last item on customer catching for the Tools Group.
We're recently recognized in Tech Shop Magazine named as the 2013 Top 5 tools award winner.
This award's noteworthy because it is determined directly by professional users as they name their favorite tools.
I believe the award speaks clearly to the continuing appreciation and aspiration that serious professionals hold for Snap-on and its products.
Let's move onto our RS&amp;I.
Sales in the fourth quarter were $246.6 million and for the first time surpassed $1 billion for the year.
The fourth quarter organic gain was 2.9%.
Now that's somewhat less than the past few quarters primarily reflecting the wind down of a large OEM essential diagnostic distribution rather than any real change in the overall macros.
Adding $15.2 million from Challenger Lifts and 30 basis points for foreign exchange -- for favorable foreign exchange RS&amp;I reported quarterly sales of 9.5% -- sorry RS&amp;I reported quarterly sales that were up 9.5% from 2012.
Operating earnings of $60.8 million in the quarter were up $5.4 million with the OI margin of 23% up slightly from 22.9%.
As the benefits of RCI more than overcame about 90-basis point impact from adding the lower margin Challenger business.
I've spoke often in the past about our string of new handheld diagnostics introduced over the quarters and years and they continue to drive growth in the independent repair space.
With our most recent launch the MODIS Ultra unit bigger screen more features faster operation.
It was launched in the third quarter and it's been a tremendous hit.
We're also adding to the content embedded in our Mitchell 1 repair information.
Just recently again acting on feedback from customers we introduced enhanced search functionality in our ProDemand product.
It's called 1Search.
It allows the user to simultaneously search both the standard OEM repair information and our special SureTrack expert shortcuts a clear efficiency driver and a differentiator for the Mitchell offering.
Just a little more on SureTrack.
It represents a consolidation of our proprietary experience-based information from professional technicians who are performing millions of successful field fixes.
It frequently shows the way to faster diagnosis than is possible by following the standard OEM protocols.
We believe that the ProDemand structure for Mitchell reflecting substantial input from users is the most effective in the industry combining powerful and comprehensive OEM repair information with practical shop experience.
It's a winning product.
RS&amp;I is also rapidly expanding its suite of products that serve the important medium and heavy duty truck segment.
With our essential diagnostics for OEMs repair information and TruckLabor estimating from Mitchell 1 and the next line of handheld diagnostics units we're expanding our presence with truck shop owners and managers supporting fleets dealers and repair garages.
We continue that expansion this past quarter as Challenger Lifts launched a new mobile column lift specifically aimed at heavy duty shops.
It has a capacity of up to 144 000 pounds and provides flexibility and convenience to lift large vehicles without requiring a permanent dedicated footprint in the service bay.
As I said before Challenger was acquired to expand our portfolio and to give us more to sell.
Well it's working.
And we've been pleased with its contributions.
So that's our fourth quarter.
Opco organic sales up 4.6% overcoming some tough military headwind.
OI margin reaching 15.5% for the quarter 15.1% for the full year a 120-basis point increase.
EPS $1.60 in the quarter up from $1.43 $5.93 for the year up 14% progress along the runways for improvement customer connection and innovation and RCI creating real value and advancement down each of our runways for coherent growth growing by doing what we do so very well for more and for different customers.
It clearly was an encouraging quarter.
Now I'll turn the call over to Aldo.
Aldo? Thanks Nick.
Our fourth quarter consolidated operating results are summarized on Slide 6.
Net sales of $797.5 million in the quarter increased $44.3 million or 5.9% from 2012 levels.
Organically sales increased 4.6% excluding $15.2 million of sales from the Challenger Lifts acquisition and an unfavorable $5.3 million impact from foreign currency translation.
The organic sales increased primarily reflects continued higher sales in the Snap-on Tools Group along with increased sales of diagnostic and repair information products and higher levels of undercar equipment.
It also reflects higher sales of power tools and a high-single-digit sales gain in our European-based hand tool business reversing a multi-year trend of declining sales as a result of prolonged economic weakness in that region.
These sales increases more than offset continued lower sales to the military.
Consolidated gross profit of $378.5 million increased $26.5 million from 2012 levels and the gross margin of 47.5% improved 80 basis points largely due to savings from ongoing rapid continuous improvement or RCI initiatives.
Operating expenses of $254.9 million increased $14.3 million and the operating expense margin of 32% compared to 31.9% a year ago.
As a result of these factors operating earnings before financial services of $123.6 million in the quarter increased 11%.
And as a percentage of sales improved 70 basis points to 15.5%.
Operating earnings from financial services of $33 million increased 12.6% over prior year levels.
Consolidated operating earnings by $156.6 million in the quarter increased 11.3% over 2012 levels.
And the operating margin of 18.5% improved 80 basis points from 17.7% a year ago.
Our fourth quarter effective income tax rate of 32.1% compared with 32% last year.
Finally net earnings in the quarter of $94.5 million or $1.60 per diluted share compared to net earnings of $84.6 million or $1.43 per share last year representing an 11.9% increase in earnings per share.
For the full year 2013 net earnings of $350.3 million or $5.93 per diluted share increased $44.2 million or $0.73 per share from 2012 levels representing a 14% increase in earnings per share.
Now let's turn to our segment results.
Starting with Commercial &amp; Industrial or C&amp;I Group on Slide 7 sales of $283.2 million in the fourth quarter were up 3.8% organically primarily due to sales gains in our European-based hand tools business along with higher sales in power tools.
These increases were partially offset by continued double-digit declines in sales for the military.
Gross profit in the C&amp;I group totaled $110.3 million in the quarter.
Gross margin of 38.9% improved 80 basis points over 2012 levels primarily due to savings from ongoing RCI initiatives particularly in Europe.
Operating expenses of $73.2 million in the quarter increased slightly over 2012 levels while the operating expense margin improved 70 basis points to 25.8% reflecting benefits from sales volume leverage.
As a result of these factors fourth quarter operating earnings for the C&amp;I segment of $37.1 million increased $5.2 million from 2012 levels and the operating margin of 13.1% improved 150 basis points from 11.6% last year.
Turning now to Slide 8.
Fourth quarter sales in the Snap-on Tools Group of $351.1 million increased 10.2% organically reflecting continued increases across both our U.S.
and international franchise operations.
Gross profit of $146.2 million increased $10.4 million from 2012 levels and the gross margin of 41.6% decreased from 42.2% last year largely as a result of $2.6 million or 40 basis points of unfavorable foreign currency effects.
Operating expenses of $95.2 million in the quarter increased $5 million for 2012 levels primarily due to higher volume related and other expenses.
The operating expense margin of 27.1% improved 90 basis points from 28% last year primarily due to benefits from sales volume leverage.
As a result of these factors operating earnings of $51 million for the Snap-on Tools Group increased $5.4 million from prior year levels and the operating margin of 14.5% improved 30 basis points from 14.2% last year.
Turning to the Repair Systems &amp; Information or RS&amp;I Group showed on Slide 9.
Sales of $264.6 million increased $23 million or 9.5% from 2012 levels including $15.2 million of sales from the Challenger Lifts acquisition.
Excluding Challenger sales and $0.7 million of favorable foreign currency translation organic sales increased $7.1 million or 2.9%.
The organic sales increase primarily reflects a mid-single-digit gain in sales of diagnostic and repair information products as well as mid-single-digit increase in sales of undercar equipment.
These gains were partially offset by slightly lower sales to OEM dealerships.
Gross profit of $122 million in the quarter increased $10.8 million over prior year levels.
Gross margin of 46.1% increased 10 basis points from 46% last year.
Operating expenses totaled $61.2 million in the quarter and the operating expense margin of 23.1% was unchanged from 2012 levels.
Fourth quarter operating earnings of $60.8 million for the RS&amp;I group increased $5.4 million from prior year levels and the operating margin of 23% increased 10 basis points from 22.9% last year.
Now turning to Slide 10.
In the fourth quarter earnings of $33 million from Financial Services increased 12.6%.
Originations in the quarter were $198 million a healthy 19.3% increase when compared with last year's 7% increase.
Revenues in the fourth quarter increased 10.5%.
The average yields on finance receivables of 17.4% in the quarter increased 20 basis points from 2012 levels and the average yield on contract receivables was 9.5% in both periods.
For the full year originations increased 14.9% over 2012.
Moving to Slide 11.
Our yearend balance sheet includes approximately $1.2 billion of gross financing receivables including $1.05 billion from our U.S.
Snap-on credit operation.
In the United States $838 million or approximately 80% of the financing portfolio relates to extended credit loans to technicians.
The 2013 full year our worldwide financial services portfolio grew approximately $148 million.
As for finance portfolio losses and delinquency trends these continue to be in line with our expectations.
Now turning to Slide 12.
Cash flow write up by operations of $122.5 million in the quarter increased $19.6 million from $102.9 million last year.
Fourth quarter discretionary pension contributions were $9.3 million this year and $12 million last year.
Investing activities in the quarter included cash used of $33.8 million to fund the net increase in finance receivables.
Capital expenditures were $19.9 million in both the fourth quarters of 2013 and 2012.
Full year capital expenditures totaled $70.6 million.
Turning to Slide 13.
Days sales outstanding for trade receivables of 62 days compared with 61 days at 2012 yearend.
Excluding currency impacts inventories increased $38.5 million primarily to support continued higher customer demand and improved service levels new product introductions and inventories related to the Challenger acquisition.
On a trailing 12-month basis inventory turns of 3.8x compared with 3.9x at yearend.
Our yearend cash position of $217.6 million reflects the full net -- full year net funding of $142.5 million of finance receivables dividend payments of $92 million share repurchases of $82.6 million the acquisition of Challenger Lifts for $38.2 million and capital expenditures of $70.6 million.
These uses of cash were more than offset by $392.6 million of cash generated from operations including higher levels of net income as well as cash generated from other investing and financing activities.
Our net debt-to-capital ratio of 26.3% compares to 29.7% at 2012 yearend.
In January of this year Moody's upgraded our senior unsecured credit rating to A3 and we continue to maintain A- ratings from both Standard &amp; Poor's and Fitch rating services.
In addition to our $218 million of cash and expected cash flow from operations we have more than $700 million in available credit facilities and our short-term credit ratings allow us to access the commercial paper markets should we choose to do so.
At yearend no amounts were outstanding under any of these facilities.
In March of this year we intend to repay our $100 million of 5.85% unsecured notes upon maturity with available cash coupled with our sources of borrowings.
This concludes my remarks on our fourth quarter performance I'll now briefly review a few outlook items.
We anticipate that capital expenditures in 2014 will be in the range of $70 million to $80 million.
Finally we anticipate that our full year 2014 effective income tax rate will be comparable to our full year 2013 rate of 32.3%.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Nick for his closing thoughts.
Nick? Thanks Aldo.
It was an encouraging quarter to end the year.
Significant progress was achieved throughout 2013 in the face of meaningful headwinds.
Reduced military spending was a substantial factor on our fourth quarter and other quarters were impacted to varying degrees by the military decline as well as by the weakness in Europe.
With that said we're reassured by the advancements being made along each of our runways for growth.
Critical industries like aviation national resources and heavy fleets posted good gains and we're gaining further traction.
Our new undercar plant in China came to life providing a broader range of new products of service facilities both in OEM dealerships as well as the developing independent repair industry in that region.
And outside of Asia we're building presence in other emerging markets such as Brazil where this year we launched our first handheld diagnostic unit for automotive technicians.
The Tools Group continues to gain position with expanding sales of favorable franchisee metrics speaking to the improvement.
RS&amp;I made progress serving shop owners and managers with new handhelds enhanced repair information increasing heavy duty capabilities and with an expanded undercar equipment portfolio that now includes Challenger Lifts.
At the same time the Snap-on value creation framework which drove much of our improvement over the past few years contributed again resulting in strong margin increases.
And in the end resulting in these strong margin increases we registered during the fourth quarter and throughout the year.
But as we move through 2014 we remain confident in our strategies and encouraged by our runways.
The balance of driving growth and creating improvement has authored our trajectory of positive results achieved regardless of headwinds.
We will maintain that balance.
We will take full advantage of the abundant opportunities before us and we believe we will continue the trend of encouraging performance in the quarters and years ahead.
Now before I turn the call over to the operator I'll turn my attention to our franchisees and associates.
As always I know many of you are listening.
The encouraging results would not have been possible without your unique capabilities considerable energy and continuing commitment to our team.
For the extraordinary part you played in achieving this performance you have my congratulations and you have my thanks.
Operator now we'll take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Gary Prestopino with Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Nick you mentioned in the Tools Group I believe you did 40 new products this year? Is that correct or was that..
No.
What I said was 40 new products came directly and clearly out of field suggestions from franchisees and our field sales personnel in other words we can clearly trace them to customer connection.
We did more new products that bubble up in imprecise ways through information we have in the organization or ideas that are developed in the engineering labs here.
So the 40 were really -- they were the new products we could clearly identify that came out of the north slope in Alaska.
And or the garage in Sacramento.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So is it a safe assumption to say that you've more than hit your target of 40 new products that generate over $1 million in sales? Yes.
We did much more than that.
It was more -- I'm not saying that the Tools Group -- I don't want to get into the numbers but what we've said is is that -- I think regularly I told you and others in these kinds of conversations that how we measure the effectiveness of our new products are measuring what's on that hit parade.
Those products which sell over $1 million in the first year.
And last year we achieved several times what we did just a few years ago say 2006 2005 and we're up a nice number over last year's number so we see progress in that regard.
We're pretty encouraged by that access of customer connection and innovation the art of the practical understanding of the garage matched with the understanding of the -- what's possible based on technology coming up with a new product.
We had a number of great hits this year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned some pretty good growth in your emerging markets.
I mean given what's going on in some of these emerging markets due to currencies or whatever are there any cause for concerns there? I'm not concerned.
But I think look it isn't easy.
There -- I think we said back second quarter you can see lumpiness from quarter-to-quarter in the emerging markets but we believe strongly in our physicals -- growing our physicals.
Now for example our resellers are up more than 10% our training -- number of training units in emerging market there's training sessions in emerging markets up more than 10%.
Our new factories there our products in the mid-tier are growing.
And when we look at the marketplace what we see is 3 effects.
You got the macros.
So the macro occurs and the economy is up and down.
Some of it for example in China it's driven by exports.
So they were exporting to Europe a lot of those factories shutdown.
So that's the kind of macro that affects people and it affects us in some ways too.
Although -- you had that but you also have for us the idea -- the repair wave rising on top of that and then you have the fact that we're just getting started in those markets.
So it's kind of a complex milieu that drives our business.
We don't have concerns about the future though we were up nicely in China in this quarter and India had a good year.
Indonesia was up and we -- that has been up and down for us.
So this quarter Indonesia led the way.
So we're pretty pleased and encouraged by where we're going in emerging markets.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And 2 other quick ones.
First of all you've often said that the tool -- the portfolio on the financial service will mimic the growth in the Tools Group.
This quarter it certainly -- the originations certainly outgrew what your segment sales growth was in Tools.
So can you maybe comment on that delta? Yes.
This is Aldo Gary.
Certainly it was a strong quarter and it was up more than what we saw last year moving from Q3 to Q4.
But 19% I think is in the bounds of reasonableness.
If you look at the Tools Group their overall growth was up 10.2% a little bit more in the U.S.
than the average.
And within that group their sale of big-ticket items including tool storage and diagnostics was above that average as well.
So while it certainly was a good quarter in financial services and people took advantage of the financing packages that we had available I think the originations were reflective of the fact that it was good big-ticket performance in Q4.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly and I'm not asking for a specific number Nick but do you think given that you've hit that operating margin goal that you set a couple of years ago you've actually exceeded it that some time this year you'll be able to reset that for the investment community? Well like you said we set that target a long time ago.
I think in 2005 or 2006 we were down around 5.9% and we've been talking about it often.
This year -- for the full year we're up 15.1% 15.5% in the quarter.
I'll simply say this: we believe strongly in our runways for growth and improvement and our capability to take advantage of this.
We believe that we can continue to improve on a regular basis.
I'm not saying every quarter although if you look back we've been doing it every quarter I'm not saying everything has to happen every quarter like clockwork but we feel pretty strongly that we can continue to improve over -- in a trend continue to improve in sales and in profitability.
We got topped out in margin.
And as far as the endpoints we sit we are armed with a great franchise.
So we think this franchise is among the best.
So we don't see any end to the improvement in our -- and looking out into the future.
Then we'll take our next question from David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
Can you just talk about -- you talked about during your prepared remarks aboutfranchise productivity and about growing productivity.
I was just wondering if you could maybe go back to that and elaborate a little further and just give us a sense of how much further opportunity you think might be there? Is it being driven by new products? Is it the diagnostics and storage? Just help us understand what's behind your expectations for upside and for the productivity? Well look I think -- the thing is is that the Tools Group has been performing quite in an encouraging manner.
We have said that we will grow organically at 4% to 6%.
We have said the Tools Group by the nature of this business is probably over the long haul in the sort of lower end of that number but it grew 10.2% this fourth quarter.
Last year in the fourth quarter it grew 9.3%.
9.3% and that was in 2012.
In 2011 it grew 9.3%.
And the year before that it grew 12.8%.
So it's been hammering away at some great quarters and that management team has understood the resonances of this business.
And part and parcel of the residence is to recognize that the van is bounded -- the van is bounded based on space and the driver is bounded based on time.
And what the Tools Group is doing is work -- in terms of the productivity side they're working on ways to break through those boundaries.
That's why we have the Techno -- we have the Rock 'n Roll Cab Express which adds space in effect virtual space.
They are temporary time-sharing space to the vans and it's driven some of our big-ticket tool storage business.
We're up over 60 of those now in North America.
And we added about 6 or 7 in this past quarter about 10%.
And the Techno-Vans which basically focuses on diagnostics breaking -- relieving the van driver of having to understand the diagnostics as deeply as he might.
In fact I just rode on a Techno-Van just recently down here in Illinois with a young franchisee Miguel Ortiz and Mike Bedell the driver and they want around and you want to see how this works.
They go to these shops and 3 technicians get on and they demonstrate the efficacy of the individual tools the big diagnostics and the small ones and even the tool storage stations where a shop owner can -- a lead tech can look at this tool storage station and say "Gee.
I can explain to my customer in a 16 by 7 flatscreen what's on the diagnostic and I can store all my tools in it." And he pops for a bigger ticket item around diagnostics.
He understands the real value and the full capability of diagnostics and that's part of what's behind us selling.
But at the core of it is breaking through the franchisees' time constraints.
And so what the Tools Group is doing is looking at doing that.
And so what you're seeing in the Tools Group is selling to more customers because they're breaking -- they're given the -- they're freeing up more time for the franchisee.
Miguel Ortiz told me that the guy I was -- the franchisee told me "I ride-by shops because I can't -- I don't have time to call on them." This helps him to get more time to sell.
And then the other thing we're doing with the tools -- with the Rock 'N Roll Cabs and with the new products and innovation and customer connection is we're giving them more to sell to excite existing customers.
So when we rollout these thin wall sockets and so on they excite the existing customers.
I can't parse between those 2 but I can tell you that the Tools Group seems to be understanding that very well.
Now are they going to hit double digits every time? I don't think so.
But we're cheering them on because they've been doing it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So in 2014 you're going to comp the Techno-Vans and you're going to anniversary the contribution.
And again I appreciate the fact that you're still growing the size of that fleet.
I guess the question is do you continue to grow that fleet and that drives growth through 2014? Or do you do something like...
No I don't know.
A year ago we had -- now we have -- if you combined the vans if you combine the Techno-Vans with the Rock 'N Roll Cabs we have about 70 now we have about half that number 1 year ago.
So I would say that we've been growing quite a bit so I don't know if we're going to keep growing.
I guess I would expect we won't grow that many more Rock 'N Roll Cabs which are the bigger number.
I think we have almost say like 50 of those now -- 50 or 60 of those now but we'll add them as long as they're adding incrementally to us.
And they have so far.
It probably will slow down but then we'll be adding Techno-Vans.
Where that stops I don't know.
Where that stops I'm not sure.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay well the growth is encouraging.
Just a couple of other quick questions.
On the operating expenses I guess from the operating comp you're up to about $1 billion now.
How leverageable are these from here? In other words I guess how do you -- how does that number grow going forward with respect to revenue growth? You mean the operating expenses? Say that again please sorry.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just your operating expense.
I'm just wondering how leverageable those are.
So I guess the question is how did those grow going forward with respect to growth in revenue? I can't give you guidance but I'll tell you this I think we're giving the Tools Group a blank check when they're growing at 10% or 9%.
So I think they're out capturing territories.
So if you look at their operating expenses they're out there.
Now blank check maybe a little bit of an overstatement but we're encouraging them to invest in things like product development like the vans and so on.
So if you're looking at the Tools Group and you're looking at this incandescent this great growth you're probably not going to see as much leverage on operating expenses until they sort of level of and then we know how to make money on top of that and be more efficient behind that growth weight.
The other businesses I think if you look at C&amp;I C&amp;I has shown some great leverage in that area.
In fact C&amp;I was up what 130 basis points in the quarter? And that was against that 70 basis points of unfavorable currency transaction.
There are 150 basis points and that was again 70 basis points of unfavorable currency transaction -- or not 70 basis points 120 basis points of currency transaction bad news.
So they're seeing great leverage.
So it's sort of a tale of 2 views of that.
In Tools Group you're not seeing much leverage because we're spending and we're rolling as fast as we can to capture territory.
In C&amp;I we're getting a little bit of -- a little bit more leverage because we're seeing the headwinds and we're paying attention to -- a little bit more to efficiency.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
Last question is just the January here could you just talk about the impact of weather disruptions on the business? Look yes I mean -- but it's kind of mixed.
Of course if you have something happen like Atlanta it's going to cause you some problems and you're going to lose business.
If you have continuing cold weather just as a kind of -- just regular cold weather like we're seeing here in Chicago 0 degrees 0 degrees 0 degrees sometimes it actually can accelerate business after a while because you get more difficulties.
People will ruin transmissions and some of the heavy trucks will ruin transmissions trying to plow in the snow.
You'll see people have difficulties in starting their cars and so on and you have collision which will drive more business.
So I think the story here is the jury's out on this.
It might affect you in a certain period because of items like Atlanta or storms in the northeast or so on but then you have to wait and see in our business whether it's going to generate much more business based on the negative effects of that on the cars and so on.
So for us I don't really have a good answer on that.
We're sort of like in a wait and see situation.
I can't say whether it's definitely be good or definitely be bad.
We'll take our next question from David Leiker with Baird.
Research Division</strong> Let's start with Snap-on Europe Tools.
Nice to see an increase on there.
Now that -- I guess we can pretty firmly say we put a bottom in in that business.
Can you give us some perspective? No I said there was a bottom.
Research Division</strong> No no.
How far is below 2007 2008 levels? How far below 2007 and 2008 levels are we today? Is that what you're...
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Where did it bottom off? I don't know I can't -- I don't really have an answer for that.
I can't really say that.
I just know we're pretty far [Audio Gap] Certainly in Southern Europe it's come down substantially.
I really don't have an answer for you on that.
Research Division</strong> Do you think it's down more than a 1/3? No I don't -- I'd say 1/4 may be something like that.
Yes.
20% 25%.
I'd say 1/4 probably.
You can think about this as -- I think -- I'm trying to remember but I think we entered the recession with about -- Europe being about 1/4 of our business and now it's like 1/5 or something like that.
So that's the kind of number but that's our overall European business.
Outside [ph] of Europe maybe down slightly more than that.
Research Division</strong> Outside of there.
Okay.
And then as we look in the improvement that you're seeing is that broad-based across the continent? Or is it -- are there certain pockets that you're seeing? Well there's landscapes to that.
I mean I think -- look actually interestingly Southern Europe was up higher than the average but it was off of kind of dog food base.
And so it was up in this period substantially northern Europe including the U.K.
and some of those broad countries while some of that was mixed the U.K.
was very strong and other countries were up.
And so that was up very strong.
The middle of Europe which I would say like Germany and so on that was sort of smaller than the average growth and then interestingly our Eastern European business which in this particular period -- and it can be lumpy our Eastern European business was actually a little disappointing.
It was a little flat and maybe down a little bit in certain countries but that was because it's mostly bigger ticket items.
And so I think that can be a little variation.
If you look at the other periphery which I would say the Middle East and I mentioned Turkey the MAGRA countries Northern Africa they were up strongly.
So you have that kind of mix throughout Europe.
I mean the net of it is I think that the U.K.
continued to shine through and was probably better than it was and north was better than it was.
The south was better than it was.
The center came back to more an even keel.
Your eastern Europe might backed off a little bit and the periphery stayed strong.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the emerging markets China Southeast Asia area as you're growing out your physicals there and you try and grow your distribution foreign partners and things like that how -- what are you running into from the competition in the space? [indiscernible] you're doing? I -- we -- sure we see people trying to copy our products.
People try to come in and copy our products and match our products.
It's not so much for -- I don't know if it so much in a distribution area it's more in the product area where people try to mimic what we're doing.
And remember it's a quite a fragmented market.
So we'll see an effect maybe in let's say Chongqing you'll see a local competitor try to step up and try to emulate what we do but we have to deal with that there and we do.
And so I would say that's the #1 effect.
We do try -- I think the major thing I can say about emerging markets is simply it's early early early days.
It is over 10% of our business now but we expect it to be more because we can see ourselves riding up on the wave.
And yes we'll see competitors people will try to match our products or copy our product and maybe they'll try to compete with us with resellers although we haven't seen that so far.
But we're pretty confident in our model in our technology our products and the building of our physicals to prevail over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 2 last things here.
If we look at some of these companies that make automotive parts aftermarket parts and sell them into the market whether it's shock absorbers or batteries or what have you tires they've seen in the last quarter or 2 an acceleration in their revenues selling it to the market which would imply that the frequency of the repair maybe the magnitude of the repair is starting to increase.
Are you sensing anything like that that's going on in the market? Well no but I'll say that our business has -- I read to you what the Tools Group's numbers were over 4 years for 4 quarters so we may have been seeing something like that for some time.
I have the sense though that we are getting stronger relative to our competition in that mobile tool space.
I do -- when I talked to -- so I see yourselves having gotten out of the box giving us an advantage after the recession.
Having found -- our Tools Group having found the residences in the distribution model with product and productivity to expand helping us I guess make progress versus -- in the marketplace.
But also when I talk to our customers -- when our customers -- I talk -- I was just out on events talking to transmission shops and regular shops they all say their business is pretty good.
They don't say things like well -- occasionally I hear somebody say "It's never been better." But it's not uniform.
It does say though "I'm feeling good.
I think I have a good business.
I need to figure out how to expand to handle more business." So maybe you do see some increase.
Maybe you do see some increase.
But I don't think it's been more this quarter than say last quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last item here obviously you have an opportunity here at the European tool business from a cyclical recovery perspective what else in the business model right now would be opportunity for upside to get back to normal-type demand? And my guess is most everything is there is back there already.
Is there...
Yes.
I mean I think -- well look I think to get back to normal demand we keep expanding our product line.
I think the great example of that is the Bahco Ergo tool storage system -- Tool Control System.
New product opening up a whole set of the whole different selling activity that works for us in Europe.
That does help us.
So as the European market comes back we've been sharpening our skills in Europe to be able to take even more advantage than we had when the market was last up in 2007.
The other piece of this is I mean I would say we've been dealing with a pretty significant headwind in the military.
Brutal.
I mean the military's just been going down and down and down.
And so I think eventually that even though I said on the call I don't see the end of that eventually that comes back and we feel confident about our position because we're still getting contracts.
The problem is they say "Congratulations.
You got the contract.
But the bad news is we don't actually have any money to fund it." And so you'll have to wait to actually get orders on this contract.
So I think that the military would accrue very well to us.
And you got to remember that in the quarter and we don't want to -- we don't make a big thing about this because we think it's just noise for us but currencies didn't exactly treat us that well in this quarter.
70 basis points -- I think it was 70 basis points on sales for a translation and another 70 basis points on profits for transaction.
And eventually currencies all even -- I always feel currencies always even out so I think that comes back after a while or you adjust for it.
And we'll take our next question from Liam Burke with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Nick you talked about Europe rebounding nicely and you sort of actually went around all the regions and how they were doing but you did talk about the European auto show and how much lift and you had some new product acceptance there.
How much is that auto show helped lift sales either in this quarter or going forward? I think it is a factor but it's not a huge factor.
Our auto business is one of the pieces in Europe so I wouldn't tie it completely to the auto sector.
Although we have -- as the auto sector what -- I think the European sales are supposed to be up a couple percent next year maybe 2.5% or something like that.
I don't know if that's going to drive us.
We certainly have an opportunity to get bigger in auto and the fact that we got the award in auto will give us the opportunity.
In the quarter I wouldn't say it was the main effect but it does represent an opportunity for us.
And if we win as we did in Innovation Award at that auto show it bodes well for our future.
Research Division</strong> Aldo you had another nice step up in free cash flow even as you pointed out the 19% increase in the finance receivables.
You've called out the fact that you're going to pay down $100 million in debt.
It seems your cash flow is going to continue to increase.
How do you prioritize the use beyond the -- what you had discussed in the payback of $100 million? Well first and foremost of course is to support the organic growth.
Again we're a fairly working capital intensive company.
So I would always remind people that as revenues grow we invest 25% 26% of revenue growth goes into working capital.
Snap-on credit was actually one of the larger users of cash of course if you look back over the year on what the growth of that portfolio.
And while I don't expect it to grow at the same rate of $148 million it's still will be a user of cash as we look at 2014.
CapEx pretty much equal to dividend -- I mean not dividend -- depreciation and amortization so up a little bit.
Share repurchases we're not insignificant.
I mean $83 million in the course.
Of course our strategy is to offset dilution.
And of course we are opportunistic as we look at acquisitions.
This past year we spent $38.2 million on Challenger.
I think it was in Nick's comment that it's very close to our DNA.
And as a result of that we're leveraging that acquisition in a variety of ways.
We continue to look for opportunities like that so I'm going ahead that's what we have our radar screen open to.
Then we'll take our next question from Richard Hilgert with Morningstar Financial Services.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about just some big picture items here.
Competition.
I was curious how -- what's the competitive landscape at this point? Are competitors growing their van pool? Are you seeing new tool creation there similar to what you're doing? How does the competitive landscape look at this point? Well look I think -- of course if you talk about the mobile tool channel we have 3 competitors: Mac a sign of Stanley Black &amp; Decker Matco from Danaher and Cornwell an independent shop -- an independent operation with about 500 -- 400 or 500 vans.
When I go out on these van rides and when I meet with franchisees at the -- things like kickoff meetings NFAC they really don't mention the competition particularly.
Occasionally you'll get a guy who mentioned that he has a particular friend who's riding a van but nothing in a competitive way -- riding a competitive van nothing in a competitive way.
Generally our people reflect upon their own activity and say "I'm up year-over-year.
I have a better product offering." or "I'd like to see a little bit more." They don't talk so much about that so we don't really take action based on what the competitors are doing.
So I'm not that well-informed.
Although we try to make sure that we understand that they're constantly improving.
And if we don't work hard in product and efficiency and so on they'll be closing the GAAP with us.
We understand that clearly but we haven't seen what I would say -- either in our numbers or in the anecdotal statements from our franchisees what I would call competitive pressure from those other franchises.
Now I do know that Stanley Black &amp; Decker for example has new products based on the Black &amp; Decker line that they can sell through there vans.
So they're replacing -- I'm sure they're placing some of the source product they had with their own manufactured product rolling through there and that should give them some good sales increase for Stanley.
But to the extent how that plays out in the marketplace I'm not sure.
We're not hearing much about it.
Research Division</strong> Do the competitors have the same kind of development that you're so good at where you have all of these different franchisees out there looking for opportunities with tools similar to what you described earlier in the call where we witness the specialized tool come back bring that back into the organization and say "This is what I saw let's develop this." Or have you caught the competitors copying what you've done because these are I would imagine pretty unique tools? Well look occasionally you'll see similar tools in the marketplace that Snap-on has.
But I think I know the Stanley people they're smart people.
I'm sure they're doing everything possible to try to create productivity and innovation and capability in their network.
I couldn't comment really pretty much on any specifics in that regard because we don't really run into it in the marketplace.
Our focus is looking at our own vans and saying "How can I reach our customers?" Taking that guy I mentioned Miguel Ortiz a young franchisee and get him time so he doesn't have to drive by those places on his route.
He's got time to call them.
He gets to call on more customers.
Get new products out so they energize our existing customers so they can't live without some of our tools because it will make their work easier and make more money for them.
That's our focus.
It's not so much about the competitors because after all Snap-on does have a fairly strong position in this marketplace in terms of vans in terms of loyalty of customers in terms of power of the brand.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And second big picture kind of item is over the next couple of years here we're going to see more of off lease vehicles coming into the U.S.
carpark.
And I was curious over time have you seen as the carpark has ebbed and flowed here for the last 10 years or so do you notice a corresponding change in your revenues? And should we think of this as somewhat maybe of an incremental couple of basis points to your revenue growth as the carpark expands? I don't know.
That's one possibility.
But in general the carpark expanding of course would add to our revenues.
As the carpark expands it would add to our revenues.
So if that occurs that would be a positive tailwind.
The big tailwinds for us are the change in the technology.
As cars change and they come out with new cars and new cars coming to the parking -- the park that have different technologies people need different elements and tools to deal with them.
Secondly the idea that the cars are getting older every year big sale years and small sale years cars have gotten older every year.
Since 1980 this has happened and so therefore that creates more repair.
And then the idea that the shift -- the idea that independent garages are becoming a more important component in terms of sales and they need to be more upskilled and more sophisticated so therefore they need more products.
One of the reasons why our diagnostics and the diagnostic workstations are selling well.
And this is a very big ticket item which combines a tool storage unit with a diagnostic unit and a flatscreen is because the independent shops want to ascribe and project the idea of capability and competence and that kind of product does it.
So I think that's what I can say about that.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session for today.
Ms.
Kratcoski I'll turn the call back to you for any further remarks.
Well thanks for joining us today.
A replay of the call will be available at snapon.com shortly.
And as always we thank you for your interest in Snap-on.
Have a good day.
Bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Snap-on Incorporated First Quarter Investor Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Leslie Kratcoski.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Sarah and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to review Snap-on’s first quarter results which are detailed in our press release issued earlier this morning.
We have on the call today Nick Pinchuk Snap-on's Chief Executive Officer; and Aldo Pagliari Snap-on's Chief Financial Officer.
Nick will kick off our call this morning and with his perspective on our performance.
Aldo will then provide a more detailed review of our financial results.
After Nick provides some closing thoughts we'll take your questions.
As usual we've provided slides to supplement our discussion.
You can find a copy of these slides on our website next to the audio icon for this call.
These slides will be archived on our website along with the transcript of the call.
Any statements made during this call relative to management's expectations estimates or beliefs or otherwise state management's or the company's outlook plans or projections are forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those made in such statements.
Additional information and the factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are contained in our SEC filings.
With that said I'd now like to turn the call over to Nick Pinchuk.
Nick?  Thanks Leslie.
Good morning everyone.
As usual I'll start today’s call with the highlights of our quarter.
I'll give you my perspective on the results on our markets and on our progress.
Then Aldo will move into a more detailed review of the financials.
Our first quarter results were encouraging.
They demonstrate clear progress along our runways for both growth and improvement.
Our sales were up 6.2% from last year.
The operating margin expanded by 100 basis points and the earnings per share increased 15.7% to $1.62.
The organic sales increase was 5%.
Challenger Lifts which you'll recall we acquired in the second quarter last year added another 15.2 million which along with an 80 basis point impact from unfavorable foreign exchange rates brought our total sales for the quarter to 787.5 million.
The EPS rise included an opco operating margin expansion to 15.5% up from 14.5% in 2013.
Financial services operating income increased to 34.4 million from last year’s 30.5 driving the consolidated numbers to -- operating margin to 18.6% also up 100 basis points.
Both the operating margin and the total margin were up 100 basis points.
From a macroeconomic standpoint our automotive repair related businesses the Tools Group and the Repair Systems &amp; Information or RS&amp;I Group they’ve enjoyed a reasonably favorable environment for quite some time.
And I'd say there is no real change.
Now RS&amp;I overall organic activity was up only slightly.
But that primarily reflects the wind down of a major OEM program rather than any real change in market dynamics.
You’ll also remember that C&amp;I is where the majority of our headwinds have been concentrated.
So that’s an area where I think is worth more -- a more discussion is warranted.
And as you can tell from the group's 10.4% organic rise there were encouraging gains backed by some evolution of the environment.
In Europe one of the big highlights of our fourth-quarter was the lessening of our headwinds.
And in conjunction with that the first upturn in sales we've seen in some time for our European-based hand tool business SNA Europe.
Encouragingly our first quarter was up again.
So that’s a real positive.
And SNA Europe is a solid contributor to C&amp;I’s current growth.
But I would characterize the C&amp;I performance this quarter less about market improvement and more about day-to-day business progression.
For example we did see some important advancement in our extension to critical industries.
It’s an area we've been focusing on and it’s paying off.
At the same time we’ve moved past the most difficult comparisons related to the reduced military spending and that's allowing the European contributions in critical industry gains to shine through without as much year-over-year military offset to mask the progress.
So many of our markets remain strong and the headwind of Europe is abating.
But headwinds do remain.
The current situation in Eastern Europe does create an overhang and that did have an impact on our businesses.
And while the military comparisons are not as challenging the absolute spending in that sector remains depressed without any near-term indication of a return to past levels.
But generally at the end of the day there will always be headwinds.
And we do believe that no matter the market environment we're well-positioned to continue advancing down our four defined runways for growth enhancing the franchise channel extending into the critical industries expanding Snap-on’s presence in the garage and building in emerging markets.
And along with that progress that advancement we believe that the Snap-on value creation processes of safety quality customer connection innovation and rapid continuous improvement or RCI will extend our positive performance trend and continue to drive us down our ample runways for improvement.
And as I speak of the segment results I’ll highlight some of the advancements in both growth and in net improvement.
Let’s start with C&amp;I.
Sales in the quarter were up organically by 10.4% the operating margin reached 13.5% up significantly from last year’s 11.5%.
Related to those sales there were gains in each of the group’s operating units and as I already mentioned one of the real highlights was a second consecutive quarter of growth for SNA Europe.
We’re starting to see a trend in Europe and we also saw a double digit rise in our industrial division where we have our primary focus on the spending to critical industries.
And in that area we had some big wins particularly in aviation.
Also noteworthy in Asia was solid growth in important markets like India and the Philippines much of that was driven by our expanding undercar equipment line-up that was made possible by the further significant ramp up of the production at our Kunshan plant.
The C&amp;I quarter saw benefits both from higher sales and from RCI.
You can see it in the rise of the OI margin up 200 basis points.
Regarding the margins SNA Europe deserves mention.
Even before the volume started coming back late last year that operation was contributing some noticeable profitability increases and that improvement continued again this quarter now amplified by the aid of volume.
As for the industrial division and the robust growth in that business the activity this quarter with customers and then critical aerospace sector clearly demonstrates traction.
That area has been a primary focus of our extension into critical industries and the results are showing through with some large win.
I said for quite some time that there is a bit of learning curve in understanding the customers in critical industries with the same level of insight we have with automotive technicians.
Now we are making progress with customer connection spending time in the work places launching innovative new products based on those observations for example -- and for example we’re participating side by side at customer sites in RCI events and in safety training becoming more familiar with the work with the challenges and with the needs of our customers.
You see RCI and safety are often directly related to making the work easier and safer with the right tool and that’s our business.
Speaking to the right tool I want to highlight a couple of new products that demonstrate customer connection and innovation applied to (south) [ph] critical test.
We recently launched a new design of cutters called the cushion throat cutter.
They were designed specifically for use in aviation where aero tools or material commonly referred to as foreign object damage they can cause big problems in an engine.
While we took our standard power edge cutters but added a feature that catches wire other material that was cut -- that other material that gets cut preventing it from flying off and causing troubles.
This is a good example of job insight offering new tools and building our presence.
In this case in the critical aviation sector a simple idea based on customer connection that makes a great difference.
Oil and gas another area of focus and we have an expanding offering for applications in the oilfields in power plants and in offshore rigs.
Our visits to those sites recently highlighted the field technicians' struggle with making valve adjustments on the natural gas engines that are prevalent in that environment.
As a result of that observation we developed our new pass through socket to solve that particular problem creating just the special geometry that ends the struggle another clear example of customer connection and innovation coming together to make work easier in a critical application.
So that’s a bit of colour on the C&amp;I progress.
Now on to tools the tools group.
Sales were up 6% organically operating margin up 14.3% compared to 14.4% last year including in the quarter 50 basis points of unfavourable currency impacts from our operations in Canada and Australia.
Our organic growth for the past four years of 9% 9.2% 10.7% and 7.6% certainly speaks to the improved position of the tools group.
And the growth this quarter following on the heels of that kind of sustained trend demonstrates the success we’ve had on this decisive runway for growth enhancing the franchise channel.
But the enhancement is not just about sales we see the progress in many places in the metrics we track in the low franchisee turnover in the high enthusiasm in the external validation by independent surveys of our franchisees they all confirm substantial progress.
Much of the strength we've seen could be tied to the great innovative new products that Snap-on has to offer when showing up every week at repair shops.
Products like the MODIS Ultra handheld diagnostic unit faster with a bigger full colour touch screen and our Fast-Track Expert information it’s launched last year in the U.S.
it’s been a big success and it’s helping to drive big ticket volume.
During this quarter we brought the MODIS Ultra to the UK and to Australia it’s been well received in both markets and has contributed significantly to our international growth.
Also speaking on new products and innovation you might recall the S6810 Flip Socket the MOTOR Magazine Top 20 award winning tool we introduced last year.
Sounds simple.
A two sided socket 8 millimeter and 10 millimeters on opposite sides very common sizes on under body panel.
The new socket can be quickly flipped for convenience and removing panels with only one tool.
It’s a real timesaver and as a consequence a big success.
We have taken that idea and expanded it to other common sizes adding a 13 millimeter and 15 millimeter combo and specifically for European mix a 9 millimeter and 11 millimeter combo.
And for Asian model a 12 millimeter and 14 millimeter combo were sold in a set to span a range of vehicles a technician is likely to see and a design to be used what our Snap-on CT power tool series.
That combination is now one of this year’s hit.
When it comes to new product innovation you think that there might not have been much opportunity in a product line like a ratchet.
They’ve been around a long time.
But actually we've been growing in that category over an extended period based on customer connection innovation and design capabilities.
You see preferences differ greatly among technicians depending on the mix of vehicles they encounter and the pairs on which they focus.
So we take an advantage of those varying needs by introducing multiple ratchet designs and features against the relatively standard offerings of our competitors.
I’ll mention one of those variations.
Our quarter inch drive extended reach series it incorporates an extra-long handle we believe the longest quarter inch drive available anywhere.
It reaches hard to access areas and allows a greater leverage.
It also has a quick release mechanism for those who want speed and I am fortunate incorporates our Dual 80 technology for strength and durability another hit product innovation even in a fully established line like ratchet finely related to the tools group and its growth.
I want to mention our financial services segment.
Aldo will speak of that area in some detail but I just want to highlight the strategic importance of financial services at Snap-on and how important it's been to the advancement especially in those big ticket categories of diagnostics and tools storage.
Those products has helped blaze the trail enhancing our franchisees and Snap-on credit continues to be an essential and strategic player in that progress.
Let’s move to RS&amp;I.
The results were encouraging but not as straightforward as for the other groups.
Overall sales were up 6.7% the operating margin at 22.1% compared to 22% last year.
We did have higher restructuring charges this year that reduced margins by about 60 basis points and adding in the lower margin Challenger sales also had an impact.
These two items more than offset was in fact a reasonable profit expansion in RS&amp;I authored by rapid continuous improvement.
The overall RS&amp;I sales gain included 15.2 million of Challenger lifts with only a small organic increase reflecting primarily the wind-down of some essential tool programs at the OEM dealerships which we discussed quite a bit last year if you might remember.
As many of you know the essential tool business does tend to be a bit lumpy thus the tough comparison in the OEM space.
I will say that in this year’s first quarter we also had some new programs.
So we actually don’t see the OEMs are pulling back.
This comparison just reflects the nature of this type of business and that lumpiness largely offsets the real progress with the diagnostics and repair information products we're selling into independent shop owners and managers.
We have seen those increases with independents for some time and the gains continues in the first quarter.
It’s an encouraging picture.
The combination of new handheld diagnostic units repair information the expert knowledge of Mitchell 1 SureTrack offering along with under car equipment line up of tire changes imaging of liners and lifts have established significant momentum with both individual and independent shops and with a large multi-location repair chains.
We have also broadened or medium and heavy duty product offering over the past years adding specially aimed repair information and diagnostic units.
And its paid off.
We had a significant win in recognition recently in this heavy duty sector when our diagnostic information from Mitchell was integrated into Navistar’s Oncommand Connection Remote Diagnostic and Fleet Management System.
The combination is designed to increase vehicle uptime and provide improved fleet management efficiency.
It will give more shops across to merit a greater access to the broad range of the Mitchell 1 features that make repairing all makes of commercial trucks class IV through VIII easier with engine fault code diagnostics repair procedures wiring diagrams test steps and removal or installation instructions.
It’s a one clear example of building positions with garage owners and managers in the heavy-duty space.
And that growing presence is driving new business with large organizations that run mixed fleet car and truck they need to support both vehicle types and increasingly Snap-on has the answer.
Because of that we're seeing more fleet business with big companies with utilities and with governments both city and state.
Now the strength of the RS&amp;I portfolio was also evident this past quarter at the National Automotive Dealer Association show the NADA show in New Orleans earlier this year.
Our operations came together under a tool shop solutions a total shop solutions banner it allows Snap-on to clearly demonstrate the depth and breadth of our offering to support OEM dealerships and the Challenger acquisition has been an important part of that depth that portfolio.
We believe that operation would be -- we believe when we acquired it that that operation would be a fine addition to Snap-on and RS&amp;I and that’s certainly proven to be true.
As evidenced I’ll just point to the lift that Challenger develops specifically for the quick service space that are becoming so common in OEM service centres.
It’s gotten some strong endorsements and it’s another example of how we’re able to expand the Snap-on presence with repair garage owners and managers.
So to wrap up RS&amp;I we see new diagnostics and repair information for cars and trucks and a growing under car equipment line that now includes Challenger lifts progress with independence with multi-location automotive repair chain and with the important medium and heavy duty segment; we see positive trends and improved position with repair shop owners and managers.
So that’s the highlight of our quarter growth and improvement.
Sales up 5% organically overcoming the remaining headwinds.
OI margins 15.5% up 100 basis points.
C&amp;I strength with critical industry showing their potential the tools group growing again continuing to enhance our franchise network with success.
RS&amp;I building its position and its product line with particular success and independent shops and financial services raising its contribution both financially and strategically.
It was another encouraging quarter.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Aldo for a review of the financials.
Aldo.
Thanks Nick.
Our first quarter consolidated operating results I summarized on Slide 6 net sales of $787.5 million in the quarter increased $45.8 million or 6.2% from 2013 levels reflecting sales gains across all segments.
Organically sales increased 5% excluding $15.2 million of sales from the Challenger Lifts acquisition and an unfavourable $5.9 million impact from foreign currency translation.
The 5% organic sales increased primarily reflect sales gains in our businesses serving critical industries as well as those calling out automotive technicians and providing diagnostics and information products and independent repair shop owners and managers.
Consolidated gross profit of $378.7 million increased $21.8 million from 2013 levels.
The gross margin of 48.1% in the quarter was unchanged from prior year levels.
As savings from on-going rapid continuous improvement or RCI initiatives were largely offset by unfavourable foreign currency effects and the impact of lower margin Challenger products.
Operating expenses of $257 million increased 7.9 million while the operating expense margin of 32.6% improved 100 basis points from 33.6% a year ago primarily due to benefits from sales volume leverage and the effects of the Challenger acquisition partially offset by inflationary and other cost increases.
As a result of these factors operating earnings before financial services of $121.7 million in the quarter including $5.3 million or 60 basis points of unfavourable foreign currency effects increased to $13.9 million and as a percentage of sales improved 100 basis points to 15.5%.
Operating earnings from financial services of $34.4 million increased 12.8% over prior year levels.
Consolidated operating earnings of 156.1 million including $5.4 million or 60 basis points of unfavourable foreign currency effects increased 12.9% over 2013 levels and the operating margin of 18.6% improved 100 basis points from 17.6% a year ago.
Our first quarter effective income tax rate of 31.6% compared with 31.9% last year.
Finally net earnings in the quarter of $95.9 million or $1.62 per diluted share compared to net earnings of $82.8 million or $1.40 per share last year representing a 15.7% increase in earnings per share.
Now let’s turn to our segment results.
Starting with the commercial and industrial or C&amp;I group on Slide 7 sales of $290.6 million in the quarter were up 10.4% organically primarily due to sales gains the customers and critical industries as well as continued sales increases in our European based hand tools business.
Gross profit in the C&amp;I group totalled $112.7 million in the quarter.
Gross margin of 38.8% improved 160 basis points over 2013 levels primarily due to benefits from higher sales $2.1 million of lower restructuring cost and savings from on-going RCI initiatives.
These gross margin improvements were partially offset by $4.1 million or 100 basis points of unfavourable foreign currency effects.
Operating expenses of $73.6 million in the quarter increased $5.2 million over 2013 levels primarily due to higher volume related and other expenses.
The operating expense margin of 25.3% improved 40 basis points primarily reflecting benefits from sales volume leverage partially offset by inflationary and other cost increases.
As a result of these factors first quarter operating earnings for the C&amp;I segment of $39.1 million including $3.3 million of unfavourable foreign currency effects increased $8.5 million from 2013 levels and the operating margin of 13.5% improved 200 basis points from 11.5% last year.
Turning now to slide eight first quarter sales in the Snap-on tools group of $343.6 million increased 6% organically reflecting mid-single digit increases in both our U.S.
and international franchise operations.
Gross profit of $148 million increased 4.1 million from 2013 levels while the gross margin of 43.1% decreased 90 basis points from 44% last year largely due to $2.9 million or 50 basis points of unfavourable foreign currency effects.
Operating expenses of 98.8 million in the quarter increased $2.1 million from 2013 levels primarily due to higher volume related and other expenses.
The operating expense margin of 28.8% improved to 80 basis points from 29.6% last year reflecting benefits from sales volume leverage partially offset by inflationary and other cost increases.
As a result of these factors operating earnings of $49.2 million for the Snap-on tools group including 2.1 million or 50 basis points of unfavourable foreign currency effects increased $2 million from prior year levels the operating margin of 14.3% compared with 14.4% last year.
Turning to the repair systems and information or RS&amp;I Group showed on slide nine.
Sales of $262.7 million increased 16.6 million or 6.7% from 2013 levels excluding 15.2 million of acquisition related Challenger sales and 0.7 million of favourable foreign currency translations.
Organic sales were up slightly as gains in sales of diagnostic and repair information products to repair shop owners and managers were largely offset by lower sales to OEM dealerships including the wind down of an essential diagnostic distribution.
Gross profit of $118 million in the quarter increased $4 million over 2013 levels.
Gross margin of 44.9% decreased 140 basis points from 46.3% last year primarily due to the impact of lower gross margin Challenger products and $1.8 million of higher restructuring cost partially offset by continued savings from RCI initiatives.
Operating expenses totalled 59.9 million in the quarter and operating expense margin of 22.8% improved 50 basis points from 23.3% last year largely due to benefits from sales volume leverage and the effects of the Challenger acquisition partially offset by inflationary and other cost increases.
First quarter operating earnings of 58.1 million for the RS&amp;I Group increased 1.6 million from prior year levels.
The operating margin of 22.1% in the quarter declined 90 basis points from last year as lower margins associated with Challenger and a 60 basis point impact from higher restructuring cost more than offset benefits from the on-going RCI initiatives.
Now turning to slide 10 in the first quarter earnings from financial services of 34.4 million increased 12.8% and revenues of 50.2 million increased 14.1% in both the first quarters of 2014 and 2013 the average yield on finance receivables was 17.5% and the average yield of contract receivables was 9.5%.
Originations of $202.1 million in the quarter increased $30.2 million or 17.6% compared to 2013 levels.
Moving to slide 11 our quarter end balance sheet includes approximately 1.3 billion of gross financing receivables including 1.1 billion from our U.S.
Snap-on credit operation.
Approximately 80% of our U.S.
financing portfolio relates to extended credit loans to technicians.
During the first quarter our worldwide financial services portfolio grew approximately $28 million.
As for finance portfolio losses and delinquency trends these continue to in line with our expectations.
Now turning to slide 12 cash provided by operations of $88.3 million in the quarter increased $12.6 million from comparable 2013 levels primarily as a result of higher 2014 net earnings.
Net cash used by investing activities of $50.9 million included $30.3 million to fund the net increase in finance receivables.
Capital expenditures of 18.3 million in the quarter compared with $14.7 million last year.
Turning to slide 13 days sales outstanding for trade and other receivables of 65 days compared with 62 days at 2013 year end.
Inventories increased $18.2 million from 2013 year end primarily to support continued higher customer demand and new product introductions as well as to improve service levels.
On a trailing 12 month basis inventory of 3.8 times remained consistent with our year end levels.
Our quarter end cash position of $127.8 million decreased $89.8 million from 2013 year end levels primarily as a result of the March 2014 repayment of $100 million of unsecured notes at maturity.
In addition the net decrease in cash also reflects the impacts of funding 169.7 million of new finance receivables dividend payments of $25.6 million and share repurchases of $22.1 million as well as 18.3 million of capital expenditures.
These uses of cash were partially offset by $139.4 million of cash from collections of finance receivables $88.3 million of cash from operations and $12.8 million of cash from stock purchase and option plan exercises.
At the end of the first quarter our net debt to capital ratio was 25.5%.
In addition to our $128 million of cash and expected cash flow from operations we have more than $700 million in available credit facilities and our current short-term credit ratings allow us to access the commercial paper market should we chose to do so.
At quarter end no amounts were outstanding under any of these facilities.
With that I’ll now turn the call over to Nick for his closing thoughts.
Nick.
Thanks Aldo.
Well as I said at the start we are encouraged by the quarter.
We believe the results are more clear evidence of potential and they are added confirmation of what we’ve been saying for some time that as we look forward Snap-on has abundant and wide runways for both improvements and for growth.
We believe the quarter’s performance adds to a long trend which reinforces that outlook.
We are moving down our runways for growth enhancing the franchise network sales growing by 6% new products strong franchise metrics and a credit company is amplifying that strength.
Expanding repair shop owners and managers new diagnostics and information products growing stronger with independent shops Challenger Lifts giving us more to sell extending the critical industries C&amp;I growing organically at 10% with over 200 basis with an over 200 basis points increase in OI margins and building in emerging markets ramping up our new lift factory and growing even in a place like India where economic and election uncertainty are major headwinds today.
We’re also progressing down our runways for improvements Snap-on value creation safety quality customer connection innovation and RCI driving margin gains.
So we’re encouraged by the continuing trends but we believe there is much more ample opportunities and clear runway for growing and improving.
And we believe that with the inherent advantages we hold the investments we’re making and the capable team we’re enlisting we will extend on a positive trend for the foreseeable future.
Before I turn the call over to the operator I believe it’s appropriate to speak to our franchisees and associates.
I know that once again many of you are listening.
The encouraging results of the first quarter and the positive trends we’re demonstrating are direct result of your extraordinary capability and your continuing commitment.
For the role you play in our on-going achievement you have my congratulations.
And for your unfailing dedication to our team you have my thanks.
Now I’ll turn the call over to the operator.
Operator?  Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
We’ll take our first question from David Leiker with Robert Baird.
Hi good morning.
This is Joe Vruwink on line for David.
I wanted to start is it possible to quantify any impact weather might have had on the tools group in the quarter? I’d imagine some of the van routes were impacted and obviously fewer repairs are going on mechanics have less money in their pockets.
So anyway to quantify that? The short answer is no.
My response to that it’s always something.
And so yes we had some tough winter and routes were attenuated in some time and I rode a number of these vans and when you stop at garage I think I said this on the last call.
Some guys say business is great because we’re tearing up transmissions and chassis are getting bumped around and so there is lot of business here.
Other people are saying hey the business is terrible.
So it’s hard to quantify it.
Certainly it might have imposed some cauterization on us a little bit.
But I think for our perspective we’re not really looking at it as something that is that unusual just something that comes up and we manage over it.
May be as the quarter progressed so we obviously started getting better weather in March April has been a little bit better I suppose has your sales activity picked up kind of in line with that cadence? Well yes but it's hard to quantify Joe because to tell you the truth last year if you looked at last year we had people seem to go on a sabbatical in early January so we had a kind of back end loaded cauterization it tends to happen from time to time from quarter-to-quarter.
So there isn’t always great intelligence looking from months to months.
So yes we did see some uptick but I am not sure you can read that much into that.
And then just looking at the origination growth and financial services if I kind of use that as a parameter for activity in the tools business 18% obviously a lot higher than the 6% organic growth for the segments.
Is there a way to kind of understand the disconnect there and is 18% so parameter for barometer for just generally… What I can give you -- unfortunately from quarter to quarter it’s hard to tie it exactly because there is a -- what we say is and you have probably heard us say this over and over is that the originations should roughly follow the growth of the tools groups big ticket items which is primarily tools storage in some of the larger diagnostics.
So a matter of fact over the last several quarters and in again this quarter big ticket grew greater that the tools group in general so you have that factor.
Now in the full year we believe that comes out roughly parallel as the originations and big ticket sales roughly parallel tools group big ticket sales and originations roughly are parallel and all work out.
But from a quarter to quarter remember we’re recognizing a sale to a franchisee.
He is not necessarily selling it right away onwards he necessarily doesn’t do the deal so you have some disconnect in terms of cauterization as you cross over the month so it’s very hard to tie quarterly numbers between originations in the tools group.
I will tell you that it is indications that tools group big ticket sales were sold at higher rates year over year than the average tools group and that’s true in this quarter.
Okay.
And then...
Other than you can’t really draw much from one quarter.
Sure that makes sense.
Switching across the pond and looking at Europe you talk a lot about runways for growth and I’m just wondering what’s the runway in Europe not only from revenues but Nick you think restructuring Europe C&amp;I I think your entire 10 year at Snap-on so what could be the OpEx goal? It seems like it.
I hate to comment on Europe anymore because I am usually wrong.
But the thing is look what happened in Europe what’s happened in Europe is we have been continually applying Snap-on value creation improving our productivity and efficiency even in the darkest of downturns we have said that our customers have not gone away therefore in doing this whether it’s restructuring in closing facilities or in creating efficiencies we have not removed productive capacity.
So as I said in my remarks that started to come home with positive traction several quarters ago where SNA Europe our European hand tool business was showing improvements and profitability even as the sales were going down.
And now with the sales going upwards it adds that that leverage adds that because there is good leverage because we didn’t take out any productive capacity.
Remember that when you talk about where is Europe and as Europe turn the corner and what’s happening in Europe it’s still down 20% to 25% from the peak.
So we’re coming we’re literally coming off the canvas.
So while we’ve had two quarters I am still from Missouri to see where we’re going for a longer term still it’s a positive event and it contributed nicely to C&amp;I although it was not the only contributor to C&amp;I.
Okay.
So when I think about your former peak margin in C&amp;I at 13% in 2008 you're doing 13.5 now and so with Europe 20% or 25% off the top fair to say that there is still a lot more upside there? Sure I’ve always said that I believe there is a lot of runway in C&amp;I actually I am pretty bullish about the C&amp;I business it’s just that C&amp;I been the repository of headwinds I think they have military they had the European headwinds and so on so they’ve had some difficult bumps but we feel confident about that business SNA Europe the critical industries those are great businesses.
We’ll take our next question from Liam Burke with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Nick you talked about the Snap-on tools doing well internationally.
Is one country or another doing particularly well or are you seeing just very solid international growth? Well generally I would say if you look back over I think I talked about Snap-on tools growing over the years like 9% and 9.2% and 10.7% and 7.6% last year and if you look over the 16 quarters that are involved in that international grew pretty well in general.
This particular quarter UK grew nicely better than -- about may be little bit better than the average.
Canada grew even more.
Australia actually was down slightly down slightly.
Some of that could have been currency.
The tools group man they got hammered with currency in terms of transaction because you’ve got the Canadian dollar weakening and you got the Aussie dollar weakening versus the U.S.
dollar where we make the products we’re moving into those markets and U.S.
dollars we’re shipping them in and so does transaction impact.
And so that played out a little bit in the Australian volume I think.
UK has been across the company pretty strong.
I think on balance you could say international is pretty good but color in this quarter Australia is may be feeling the weight of the currency problem a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay great and Aldo you had DSO step up three days.
Is that timing or is this something different? Is it more international? I would say above one-day due to the timing of sales where they fall in the collection cycle.
But what you are seeing there you’re spot on.
The international mix is a little bit more robust.
The term structurally in the international markets tends to be longer than that in the U.S.
And then behind-the-scenes you have the fact that military is a little bit less than what it had been in prior years.
The government's pays quick and the governments often times even uses credit cards.
So that always helped to be a sole calculation.
And then finally if you look at emerging markets those places that have some spot liquidity issues places you look like at China India Brazil you have a lot less cash-and-carry business and the result in distribution circles there you have to provide little bit more structural terms.
That's normal.
It goes with the terms so as those markets mature in our presence and then mature I think you will see a little bit more classic dated outstanding rather than cash-and-carry type activities.
(Operator Instructions).
And we will take our next question from Gary Prestopino with Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Good morning all can you hear me all right because I am on a cellphone? We have a little background but we can hear you fine.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That’s because I’m at the airport but anyway Nick when you look at that dealer business you said those re-facilitations were winding down.
If you back out some of that business that’s winding down do you have a sense of just what the growth was just to dealers overall?  I don't have a dealer overall growth but I'd say it’s -- if you look at our -- one of the things that I wanted to say was is that I think we said in the call that RS&amp;I would grow without the wind down of the dealerships.
And we think it'd be mid-single digits that kind of growth if you pull out that OEM lumpiness.
If you went back to our earnings calls last year it was growing we had some pretty good growth in RS&amp;I; we are saying that some of that was accelerated by some of these movements.
So we said overtime that RS&amp;I the margins can be moved by that and also the growth can be a little bit lumpy.
We are actually pretty pleased with it because the other businesses particularly in the independent space are growing nicely.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay it just makes sense because the dealerships are doing well too overall.
And then in terms of -- do you have any facilities business et cetera in the Ukraine? Yes we have some business in the Ukraine.
We have a sales office there.
But its peanuts you know I mean really Ukraine is not -- it’s a very-very small exposure at the Ukraine.
If you talk about the Ukraine and Russia it’s a little bit bigger but it’s still a smaller piece of the business maybe 1% of the total for the organization.
And that business and these numbers are down already and these numbers are down multiple decades.
We have seen -- we saw some headwind here.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly I had another question on just the growth in the tool business in Europe but if you look at your business overall in Europe you know the southern tier countries had always been very sluggish and declines really the northern countries had been doing a little bit better.
Are you starting to see a pickup in places like Spain Italy countries like that? Are you starting to see any growth in revenues out of those countries? Or is it specifically all the north countries? Sure.
No-no-no actually we see revenue growth in our tools business; the SNA-Europe business in Spain and Italy Portugal actually France even and Germany and so on.
So we see -- sort of a center of Europe UK is pretty good.
The Eastern European businesses as you might expect are weak.
There is some growth in Turkey for example.
So that’s kind of pushing it.
I will say that sometimes I think we went so down so far in Spain and Portugal that any kind of growth just kind of not so big but it's still positive from what we see.
It’s so positive and encouraging event yes.
We'll take our next question from David MacGregor with Longbow Research  Yes good morning everyone.
Can you talk about the extent to which your growth in international business may have supported the large origination number?  I will take that.
It was fairly evenly balanced.
But the originations are still more influenced by the activity in the United States.
So certainly you can look at the International portfolio grew as well but no one do buy us one way or the other.
Okay and you mentioned that the origination should converge with the tools business over the course of the year that from a quarter-to-quarter standpoint you can see divergence a bit over the course of the year that should converge.
So does that imply that we’re going to see a fairly substantial reduction heading into 2Q and 3Q here in the origination? No I didn’t actually say what I said specifically was it should converge with big ticket sales in the tools group.
Okay good.
And so that doesn’t necessarily correlate exactly with the overall tools group number in fact for many quarters they’ve been higher.
Okay.
And then within that big ticket you talked about the fact I guess storage and diagnostics are really driving the big ticket within the tools segment as I understand.
Do we begin to anniversary something here in the next quarter or two that would create a substantially slower year over year growth? Well I don’t know.
I think -- look I have said forever that I think we expect our growth to be at 4% to 6% organically and this is at the top end and we grew like I said at 9% 9.2% 10.7% and 7.6% in the past year so that will be outside that.
So eventually you might expect the tools group to come down to where I said but we have some great strengths in the tools group.
We are ramping up the innovation engine with customer connection and innovation so we have more new products than ever before.
We have these new marketing activities which are breaking the boundaries of the van the Rock N' Roll Cab that has 56 on the road now and they are breaking the space constraint and adding to that tools storage and we’ve raised the Techno-Vans which support the diagnostic sales to 18.
A year ago those numbers 56 and 18 were 36 and 4 and two years ago were just 18.
So we are pumping more support into the tools group.
So I wouldn’t want to call for a cooling on the other hand we do say over time it’s 4% to 6%.
I am not saying it’s going to happen that we’d see a reduction next quarter though I don’t see a lapping being a factor.
Okay.
Just a couple other questions I guess on the change in working investments.
Aldo you went into some detail about the things that are stressing your DSOs and that was helpful.
I noticed though that going back over say the last two years first quarter ’12 it was a 13.9 good guy in ’13 it was negative 55 and in ’14 were negative 42.5.
Is that reflecting just the structural shift so the growing international business the slowdown in military the things that Aldo discussed here is there something else going on there? I think the same variables do characterize you’re talking about just the receivables element in working capital is that [Multiple Speakers] are longer that’s a fact of life.
The international mix of business does then impact that emerging markets as they mature does move from a certain percent of business being as I said cash and carry and short term oriented to more traditional distributor terms.
And finally the realization of the government is a little bit of a less of a player in our mix.
They were one of the ones that have the most rapid payment terms usually and they do pay properly.
I’ll just jump in here one of the things that is going on here is if you shipped to C&amp;I I think we have of course the great progress in Europe where we’ve gotten another quarter of growth and we have been pounding Snap-on value creation so we have nice leverage rolling out of that.
But there is also a great component of extension to critical industries where we had some big wins in aviation those are very profitable but they’re not the military business they change the nature of the payable of the receivables and we are not only in aviation but we’re also extending internationally.
One of the things we worried about in critical industries where we able to project and roll the Snap-on brand out of the garage into aviation and oil and gas and those things and that’s working.
And then further than that are you able to project it internationally well that’s really working this quarter and that’s one of the things that’s driven that’s one of the big factor may be the biggest factor in driving the 10.4% growth in C&amp;I and a great component of the 200 basis points improvement.
Yes okay.
And the last question if I could just last question you paid down 100 million of debt in the quarter.
Clearly the balance sheet is over capitalized at this point.
I don’t want to be the guy to force or pound the table but you need to do acquisitions I hate to see you stress that.
But what is your thought process on just using some of this capitalization capacity to buyback more stock rather than wait for opportunities to surface on the M&amp;A front? Well I think we’ve made it clear that two factors I’ll say our priorities for cash are; working capital investment and the organic business you just pointed out some of the requirements we can have as we expand our business to different places.
We see it in our working capital today; we’re growing but its eating working capital.
We knew this was coming.
We are looking at M&amp;A.
We view each months we’re reviewing a list of M&amp;A and we will act on this and we’re confident we can find targets because we keep looking at severely each month; thirdly we keep our dividend in perpetuity and we know our investors like that dividend like those dividends and it depends on it and then the idea of buying back stock to offset dilution.
We see that as our cash priority.
And I would add on top of that though that’s our current cash priority but I would add on top of it we know that as we generate cash and have capability we will be judged on how we wheel that we know that.
Are you considering large transformative acquisitions or are they...
No nothing transformative.
We think we can make acquisitions we’ve seen several large acquisitions that didn’t quite work out that were sort of semi-coherent on closer look it wasn’t.
We believe we can make acquisitions that give us more to sell and more strength with the customer basis that are along our runways for growth that is the technicians the repair shop owners and managers people in the critical industries are in emerging markets.
And we can do that without having to transform.
So if we got to the end of the year and you still hadn’t done a larger transaction you still had the kind of overcapitalized balance sheet you have today.
Would you consider accelerating share repurchase activity? I am not sure.
I’d wait till I get to the end of the year at that.
And next we’ll go to Richard Hilgert with Morningstar.
I wanted to ask about on the military spending has that now completely anniversaried in other words the first quarter last year was the quarter where we really saw a big decline in that area of the business correct? Actually I think it was the fourth quarter of the prior year but if the answer is it completely anniversaried the answer is no because it keeps going down but the base is smaller.
So the impact on us -- it isn’t that it didn’t impact us it did.
But the base on which the reduction is operating is smaller; therefore it’s less of an irritant.
It doesn’t create the screen in C&amp;I that it did before.
So the way I characterize in my script and I think this is accurate it no longer masks some of the progress that was happening because it’s smaller.
I mean basically that business is down more than half its way down.
So it keeps coming down and was down in the quarter couple of decades of percentages.
So it was down again but the base that it operates thus far.
Is the European hand tools business that you mentioned that improved for the first time in quite a while? Was that down about the same kind of magnitude that military was down? No not that much but it was down let’s say 25% in sales.
And then on the Challenger Lift business is the nature of that equipment and the historic margins such that this would represent always represent margins that are less than that segment’s average and therefore if sales in that business increase more so than the sales in the rest of RS&amp;I it would cause margins to be slightly diluted? If the question is I mean I think this is the question.
Is the Challenger margin -- are the Challenger margins 23%? The answer is no.
And therefore for some time and for either substantially lower than that so for some time growth in Challenger margins [indiscernible] Challenger sales would be detrimental to the overall RS&amp;I margin numbers.
However it might help it might raise its profitability for the corporation and so on.
And by the way we’ll be working on the Challenger margins over time with Snap-on value creation to keep improving it.
But there is a big gap between the Snap-on between the Challenger margins and the overall RS&amp;I margins.
That gap is what is actually I was getting at and what I was getting at is that is Challenger is just the nature of this product and the pricing in that segment of the business such that you’ll never get to the 20 some odd percent that the RS&amp;I group does it will always be lower than that general mark.
Well yes I guess I mean I think is sure always is a long time even for a guy like me.
And I have a lot of confidence in Snap-on value creation so I think it can move it upwards.
So I would never see the idea that never get there.
But it’s certainly a long pull.
Now remember though that we lap the acquisition in the second quarter.
So we acquired Challenger I don’t know half way to two-thirds of the way through the second quarter of last year.
So once we get into the third quarter its apples-to-apples.
What you’re seeing now with the drag is in apples-to-oranges comparison that’s why we (want) [ph] it out.
I mean RS&amp;I actually had a pretty good quarter it had 60 basis points of restructuring impact year-over-year and another multiple decade a doll-up of Challenger impact and that occluded the relatively strong RCI achievement that it made in the 50 to 60 basis points.
Certainly was an impressive quarter on margin performance.
Thanks for taking my questions this morning.
And we have no further question in the queue at this time.
Thanks everyone for joining us this morning a replay of the call will be available on snapon.com shortly.
And as always we do appreciate your interest in the company.
Thanks a lot.
This does conclude today’s presentation.
We thank you all for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Snap-on Incorporated Second Quarter Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Leslie Kratcoski VP of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Randy and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to review Snap-on's second quarter results which are detailed in our press release issued earlier this morning.
We have on the call today Nick Pinchuk Snap-on's Chief Executive Officer; and Aldo Pagliari Snap-on's Chief Financial Officer.
Nick will kick off our call this morning with his perspective on our performance.
Aldo will then provide a more detailed review of our financial results.
After Nick provides some closing thoughts we'll take your questions.
As usual we've provided slides to supplement our discussion.
You can find a copy of these slides on our website next to the audio icon for this call.
These slides will be archived on our website along with the transcript of today's call.
Any statements made during this call relative to management's expectations estimates or beliefs or otherwise state management's or the company's outlook plans or projections are forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those made in such statements.
Additional information and the factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are contained in our SEC filings.
With that said I'll now turn the call over to Nick Pinchuk.
Nick? Thanks Leslie.
Good morning everyone.
I'll start today with some of the highlights of our second quarter the general environment and the trends we're seeing as well as some of the progress we made.
And Aldo will move into a more detailed review of the financials.
Our second quarter results were encouraging.
They offer strong evidence of Snap-on advancements along our run rates for both growth and for improvement.
Our sales were up 8.2% from last year.
The operating margin expanded by 130 basis points.
And the earnings per share they reached $1.80 up 20% compared with the $1.50 reported last year.
The organic sales increase was 6.6%.
Incremental sales from our Challenger acquisition in May of last year and coupled with our acquisition of Pro-Cut this past quarter added another $10.5 million which along with $1.4 million of favorable foreign currency brought our total sales for the period to $826.5 million.
The operating margin for opco reached 16.7% up from 15.4% in 2013.
Financial Services' operating income increased to $34.8 million from last year's $30.6 million driving the consolidated operating margin to 19.7% also up 130 basis points.
Now from a macro perspective we believe the favorable conditions remain for our businesses serving automotive repair customers; the Tools Group and the Repair Systems &amp; Information or RS&amp;I Group.
Both have continued to experience strong demand and in the second quarter both of them reached new sales levels.
Tools Group activity increased 6.6%.
The strength of our band channel is clearly evident in those numbers and in the [indiscernible].
RS&amp;I had an overall -- had overall organic gains of 7.7% led by significant essential tool and facilitation sales in OEM dealerships.
For the C&amp;I group for C&amp;I there are also continued signs of improvement along our runways for growth.
We saw important and clear progress in our efforts extending to critical industries and in building the physicals in the emerging markets of Asia-Pacific.
U.S.
Military activity.
It's been a significant C&amp;I headwind.
Well the military experience is somewhat of a resurgence up double digits from the second quarter of last year the first year-over-year increase since mid-2012.
The C&amp;I results are positive.
We do however remain cautious as to the improvement within the U.S.
Military business.
At this point the length and the amplitude of any recovery is quite uncertain.
With that said though the opportunities for C&amp;I definitely outweigh the challenges and the results confirm it.
More broadly the operating income gains across the corporation clearly demonstrate the leverage and the power of the Snap-on Value Creation Processes: safety quality customer connection innovation and rapid continuous improvement.
They drive our improvement every day and they helped author our 130-basis-point gain this quarter.
As I speak to the segment results I'll highlight some of those advancements in both growth and in improvement.
Let's start with C&amp;I.
I just said -- as I just said an 8.4% organic sales increase.
The group's operating margin was up 70 basis points even while overcoming an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 80 basis points.
Both higher volumes and the benefits of Snap-on Value Creation drove the margin improvement more than offsetting the currency.
Related to the volume there were some positive gains in the group's operating unit.
SNA Europe had its third straight quarter of year-over-year group -- growth a promising trend outperforming the present economic conditions within its own markets.
SNA Europe also showed clear margin improvements in the quarter capitalizing on the volume increases leveraging the uptick in activity and realizing the benefits of RCI and past restructuring actions.
That effect was evident in SNA Europe's growing profitability.
Also in C&amp;I the Industrial division saw particularly strong volume in the critical aviation sector and it's a continuation of favorable trends we saw in the first quarter.
And besides the encouraging trend -- the encouraging aerospace volume the quarter also saw a success in extending to other critical industries like natural resources where sales were up double digits.
Some of those gains -- some of these gains can be attributed to a growing line of innovative products guided by strong customer connections specifically designed for critical applications.
One such product was just launched aimed at the power generation industry.
It was the K3477 our ground-mounted transformer access tool.
This new utility tool is perfect for removing or securing the penta-style bolts on underground utility transformers.
It's also effective in a variety of other applications in the power generation and delivery industry.
The K3477 features a pentagon socket at one end and a 3/4 hex socket at the other.
The pentagon side gains access and the hex side is used on the terminals inside the transformer.
The new unit employs the Snap-on -- importantly the new unit employs the Snap-on award-winning Dual 80 ratchet technology for smooth performance enabling the smallest of ratchet swings very helpful in tight quarters within a transformer box.
The K3477 another tool born from Snap-on customer connection making work easier for professionals and workplaces of consequence.
Reaching to new markets the Industrial division organized hands-on product training just for its Latin American region.
The meeting was attended by about 125 customers and a number of our sales reps.
It included a series of in-depth technical training sessions familiarizing customers with our latest product offering emphasizing opportunities across the continents in multiple segments areas like mining oil and gas aerospace.
Industrial -- our Industrial division rolling out of the garage reaching new segments and new geographies like Latin America.
Industrial is also working to create more customers for life in technical education.
We continue to add to our list of Snap-on certified schools.
Already this year 35 new institutions have embraced our certification protocols helping us lead in providing top-notch curriculums to the technicians of the future.
We continue to build in emerging economies areas of strong potential and we saw sales progress in bellwether markets like China and India activity up nicely compared to last year.
C&amp;I did have a positive quarter.
It did have a positive quarter.
And we know there's even more opportunity and we're continuing in the pursuit.
Let's move to the Tools Group.
Sales increased 6.6% organically.
Operating margin of 16.4% was also up versus the 15.7% recorded last year overcoming within the quarter 60 basis points of unfavorable currency impacts largely related to our operations in Australia and Canada.
The 70 basis point brings our Tools Group OI margins to new levels and that performance clearly speaks to our improving position.
And when combined with the growth this quarter it clearly demonstrates the vast -- the success we're having on this decisive runway enhancing the franchisee channel.
You can see it in the sales and you can see it in the overall franchisee health metrics trending positively again this quarter.
Snap-on franchisees are a committed and capable force and we're working hard every day to support their effort through creative marketing in-house customer financing with Snap-on Credit and a growing array of innovative new products.
New products like our Push-Pull Spring Tool range designed to remove and install springs on automobiles heavy-duty trucks and agricultural equipment with precision and speed.
You see today's techs commonly use picks and screwdrivers for these applications.
These standards -- but these standard tools sometimes slip causing the spring to go flying or to drop into the mechanism.
It's a productivity killer.
Snap-on's Push-Pull Spring units are uniquely designed with a robust shank and a deep V- and C-shaped grooves to securely hold and maneuver small- and medium-sized springs.
It's a winning tool line shaped by direct observation customer trial and feedback.
Products like our power tools our 14 -- our new power tools.
So 14 -- let's take one.
A 14.4-volt 3/8-inch cordless impact wrench high torque small size power in your product -- in your pocket.
This impact gun and its twin the 14.4-volt cordless screwdriver combine to display Snap-on innovation and to help drive the Tools Group volume.
On another front the growing strength of our Tools Group marketing is also evident with the increases in big-ticket sales.
And a lot of that credit goes to Snap-on hands-on demonstration vehicles the Rock 'N Roll Cab Express and the TechKnow Express vans both driving excitement and sales.
The Rock 'N Roll Express showcases a broad range of Snap-on tool storage -- of the Snap-on tool storage line colors shapes options.
You've been listening to these calls for any time you've heard that the product variety made available for hands-on selection on the Rock 'N Roll van is a significant contributor to the Tools Group growth.
For handheld diagnostics the TechKnow Express vans.
The TechKnow Express vans follow the path blazed by the Rock 'N Roll Express offering customers the ability to touch and to feel and to navigate.
In essence try out our assortment of diagnostic solutions easing the way to make that big-ticket buying decision all under one roof.
And we keep adding to our TechKnow fleet.
We now have 24 with more on the way.
Another advantage for the Tools Group is our Financial Services arm Snap-on Credit strategic programs aimed at smoothing the way for those big-ticket categories of tool storage and diagnostics.
Again this quarter our credit company played an essential role in enhancing our van channel and helping us drive the sales growth.
Well that's the Tools Group.
Attractive new products guided by customer connection innovative marketing and a unique credit capability all helping the vans reach new levels.
Now let's move to RS&amp;I.
Organic sales growth of 7.7% while the second quarter operating margin of 23.2% 23.2% compared to last year's 23%.
The overall sales gain was $32.3 million or 13.1%.
$19.1 million of organic sales $2.7 million of favorable currency and $10.5 million of sales from our acquisition Challenger Lifts and our recent add Pro-Cut International.
We're excited to add Pro-Cut to the portfolio a well-established brand that complements the RS&amp;I lineup.
Challenger Lifts and the newly acquired Pro-Cut advance brake servicing product line both giving us more to sell to vehicle repair shop owners and managers to customers and independent shops and national service chains and in OEM dealerships.
They're both positive steps along our runway for coherent growth in the repair garage.
Beyond acquisitions RS&amp;I registered organic sales gains across the group from repair information to diagnostic products within independent repair shops to program activity in support of OEM dealerships.
The robust organic sales were driven in part by innovation in new product lines.
In April a new product launch -- in April the diagnostic division was again voted the Top 10 tool Award winner by the readers of Undercar Digest magazine.
These awards are determined by technicians and shop owners the people who use diagnostics every day to make their living.
And they voted 2 Snap-on handheld units the VERUS PRO and the ETHOS Plus as being among their most important tools.
This again -- This again extends our string of Undercar Digest Top 10 Awards for Snap-on diagnostics.
Our past winners include listen to this list VERUS VERDICT SOLUS PRO SOLUS Ultra and now the VERUS PRO and ETHOS Plus a parade of innovation.
New products also helped bolster our sales in our OEM solution business up double digits in the quarter.
One assist in that growth was our expansion in the agricultural sector.
In the period we launched distribution of the essential diagnostic system for a major manufacturer of agricultural equipment with repair outlets over 5 continents.
The system will be used in 6 facilities and in mobile shops to deliver diagnostic repair services across the globe.
We like this program.
It has strategic -- it has significant strategic importance in extending our diagnostic reach to new customers in another critical arena: agricultural equipment.
Another product another new product the Snap-on PRO-LINK Ultra heavy-truck diagnostic tool was also launched in the quarter.
It's a next-generation device that'll make work easier in more than 60 000 heavy-duty shops throughout North America.
This new unit helps diagnose and repair a variety of problems including engine transmission and brake issues on commercial vehicles ranging from light diesels to Class 8 heavy-duty trucks.
The PRO-LINK Ultra has a faster processor includes more memory is Wi-Fi enabled and incorporates updated OEM software and arrives preconfigured for a repair connect upgrade.
That's Snap-on's proprietary system that allows users to link trouble codes with the most likely fixes based on our extensive library of real vehicle repair data.
To wrap up RS&amp;I we've seen new diagnostics unique repair information for cars and for trucks and a growing undercar equipment offering that now adds both Challenger and Pro-Cut products to our established lines.
Real strengths that are driving positive trends and have improved our positions with repair shop owners and managers and you can see it in the results.
Well that's the highlights of the quarter: growth and improvement; sales up 6.6% organically overcoming headwinds; OI margin of 16.7% up 130 basis points; C&amp;I strength with critical industries and with SNA Europe's ongoing improvement the third straight quarter of year-over-year growth; the Tools Group getting stronger robust sales and operating margin continuing to enhance our franchise network with success; RS&amp;I advancing its position with gains in both independent shops and OEMs; and Financial Services raising its contribution both financially and strategically.
It was another encouraging quarter.
Now I'll turn the call over to Aldo who will take you through the financials in detail.
Thanks Nick.
Our second quarter consolidated operating results are summarized on Slide 6.
Net sales of $826.5 million in the quarter increased $62.4 million or 8.2% from 2013 levels reflecting broad-based gains across all segments and include higher sales to auto repair mechanics customers in critical industries and OEM dealerships.
Organically sales increased 6.6% excluding $10.5 million of acquisition-related sales and $1.4 million of favorable foreign currency translation.
Consolidated gross profit of $400.4 million increased $27.2 million from 2013 levels.
Gross margin of 48.4% in the quarter decreased 40 basis points primarily due to 60 basis points of unfavorable foreign currency effects partially offset by savings from ongoing RCI initiatives.
Operating expenses of $262.3 million increased $6.9 million.
The operating expenses margin of 31.7% improved 170 basis points from 33.4% a year ago primarily due to sales volume leverage.
Restructuring costs of $1.4 million in the quarter compares to $1.8 million of such costs last year.
As a result of these factors operating earnings before Financial Services of $138.1 million in the quarter increased $20.3 million or 17.2% and as a percentage of sales improved 130 basis points to 16.7%.
Operating earnings from Financial Services of $34.8 million increased 13.7% over prior year levels.
Consolidated operating earnings totaled $172.2 million and the operating margin of 19.7% improved 130 basis points from 18.4% a year ago.
Our second quarter effective income tax rate of 32.9% compared with 32.5% last year.
Finally net earnings in the quarter of $106.1 million or $1.80 per diluted share compared to net earnings of $88.4 million or $1.50 per share last year representing a 20% increase in earnings per share.
Now let's turn to our segment results.
Starting with Commercial &amp; Industrial or C&amp;I Group on Slide 7.
Sales of $287.2 million in the quarter were up 8.4% organically primarily reflecting a double-digit sales gain to customers in critical industries and a mid-single-digit sales increase in our European-based hand tool business.
Gross profit in the C&amp;I group totaled $111.8 million in the quarter.
Gross margin of 38.9% decreased 70 basis points from last year as benefits from increased sales and savings from ongoing RCI initiatives were more than offset by higher costs including $2.7 million or 80 basis points of unfavorable foreign currency effects.
Operating expenses of $73.6 million in the quarter increased $1.8 million over 2013 levels primarily due to higher volume-related expenses.
The operating expense margin of 25.6% improved 140 basis points primarily due to sales volume leverage.
As a result of these factors second quarter operating earnings for the C&amp;I segment of $38.2 million increased $4.6 million or 13.7% from 2013 levels; and the operating margin of 13.3% improved 70 basis points from 12.6% last year despite 80 basis points of unfavorable currency effects.
Turning now to Slide 8.
Second quarter sales in the Snap-on Tools Group of $369.1 million increased 6.6% organically reflecting a mid-single-digit sales increase in our U.S.
franchise operations and a high single-digit sales increase in our international franchise operations.
Gross profit of $161.1 million increased $8.2 million from 2013 levels while the gross margin of 43.6% decreased 60 basis points due to $2.1 million or 60 basis points of unfavorable foreign currency effects.
Operating expenses of $100.6 million in the quarter increased $2.2 million from 2013 levels primarily due to higher volume-related expenses.
The operating expense margin of 27.2% improved 130 basis points from 28.5% last year primarily due to sales volume leverage.
As a result of these factors operating earnings of $60.5 million for the Snap-on Tools Group increased $6 million or 11%; and the operating margin of 16.4% improved 70 basis points from 15.7%.
Turning now to the Repair Systems &amp; Information or RS&amp;I Group shown on Slide 9.
Sales of $278.5 million increased $32.3 million or 13.1% from 2013 levels.
Excluding $10.5 million of acquisition-related sales and $2.7 million of favorable foreign currency translation organic sales were up 7.7% primarily due to a double-digit gain in sales to OEM dealership service and repair shops and a mid-single-digit increase in sales of diagnostic and repair information products to independent repair shop owners and managers.
Gross profit of $127.5 million in the quarter increased $12.6 million over 2013 levels.
Gross margin of 45.8% decreased 90 basis points primarily due to a shift in sales that included higher volumes of lower gross margin products including increased essential tool and facilitation sales to OEM dealerships as well as sales of Challenger products.
Continued savings from ongoing RCI initiatives more than offset $0.6 million or a higher restructuring cost.
Operating expenses totaled $62.9 million in the quarter and the operating expense margin of 22.6% improved 110 basis points from 23.7% last year largely due to sales volume leverage including benefits from the sales shift discussed earlier.
Second quarter operating earnings of $64.6 million for the RS&amp;I group increased $7.9 million from prior year levels and the operating margin of 23.2% in the quarter improved 20 basis points.
Now turning to Slide 10.
In the second quarter earnings from Financial Services of $34.8 million and revenues of $51.7 million compares with operating earnings of $30.6 million on revenue of $44.5 million last year.
The average yield on finance receivables of 17.5% compared with 17.4% last year.
The average yield on contract receivables of 9.5% compared with 9.6% last year.
Originations of $232.7 million in the quarter increased 14.6% from 2013 levels.
Moving to Slide 11.
Our quarter-end balance sheet includes approximately $1.3 billion of gross financing receivables including $1.1 billion from our U.S.
Snap-on Credit operation.
Approximately 80% of our U.S.
financing portfolio relates to extended credit loans to technicians.
During the second quarter our worldwide Financial Services portfolio grew approximately $65 million.
As for finance portfolio losses and delinquency trends these continue to be in line with our expectations.
Now turning to Slide 12.
Cash provided by operations of $124.4 million in the quarter increased $14.3 million from comparable 2013 levels primarily as a result of higher 2014 net earnings.
Net cash used by investing activities of $119.7 million included $58 million to fund the net increase in finance receivables and also included $41.6 million for the previously communicated acquisition of Pro-Cut.
Capital expenditures of $22.7 million in the quarter compared with $16.7 million last year.
Turning to Slide 13.
Days sales outstanding for trade and other receivables of 64 days compared with 62 days at 2013 year end and 65 days at the end of the first quarter.
Inventories increased $33.1 million from 2013 year end primarily to support continued higher customer demand and new product introductions and from the addition of inventories related to Pro-Cut.
On a trailing 12-month basis inventory turns of 3.7x compared with turns of 3.8 at 2013 year end.
The quarter-end cash position of $115.8 million decreased $101.8 million from 2013 year-end levels.
That's primarily due to $100 million March 2014 debt repayment.
The net decrease in cash also reflects the impacts of funding $370.6 million of new finance receivables; share repurchases of $62.5 million or 550 000 shares; dividend payments of $51.2 million; the acquisition of Pro-Cut for $41.6 million; and $41 million of capital expenditures.
These uses of cash were partially offset by $282.3 million of cash from collections of finance receivables and $212.7 million of cash from operations.
At the end of the second quarter our net debt-to-cap ratio was 26%.
In addition to our $116 million of cash and expected cash flow from operations we have more than $700 million in available credit facilities and our current short-term credit ratings allow us to access commercial paper markets.
At quarter end we had $29.5 million of commercial paper borrowings outstanding.
I'll conclude by mentioning a few outlook items.
We continue to expect that our full year 2014 effective income tax rate will be comparable to our 2013 rate of 32.3% and we now anticipate capital expenditures for the year will be in the range of $75 million to $80 million.
With that I'll now turn the call back over to Nick for his closing thoughts.
Nick? Thanks Aldo.
Well as I said at the start we are encouraged by the quarter.
We believe the results are more confirmation of our progress but they're also clear evidence of the opportunities that remain.
We've been saying for some time that as we look forward Snap-on has abundant runways -- abundant and wide runways for both improvement and for growth and we believe that the quarter's performance adds to a long trend that reinforces that outlook.
We are demonstrating clear gains moving down our runways for growth enhancing the franchise network.
Tools Group sales growing operating earnings at new heights innovative new products strong franchisee metrics and a credit company amplifying that strength with greater effects expanding with our repair shop owners and managers RS&amp;I growing diagnostics and information products stronger with independent shops.
A successful Challenger acquisition and a new Pro-Cut addition widening the product offering extending to critical industries.
C&amp;I growing organically at 8.4% with a 70 basis point increase in OI margins overcoming 80 basis points of unfavorable currency.
Rolling the Snap-On brand out of the garage to sectors like aviation and natural resources.
SNA Europe clawing back.
Building in emerging markets the physicals getting stronger each quarter and seeing it in our market position.
We're also progressing down our runways for improvement.
Snap-on Value Creation safety quality customer connection innovation of rapid continuous improvement driving margin gains across the entire corporation.
So we are encouraged by the continuing trends.
Sales up 6.6% organically opco OI margin reaching 16.7% rising 130 basis points.
But we believe there is much more and we are confident that we're positioned with the capability and the intent to take full advantage and to continue our trajectory of positive performance for the foreseeable future.
Before I turn the call over to the operator it's appropriate to speak to our franchisees and associates.
I know that once again many of you are listening.
Our progress in the second quarter and the positive trends are a direct result of your extraordinary capability and your continuing commitment.
The role you play in our ongoing achievement you have my congratulations.
And for your unfailing dedication to our team you have my thanks.
Now I'll turn the call over to the operator.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Liam Burke from Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> In terms of Snap-on Tools you have tools that are guaranteed for life.
Now you're seeing a pretty nice growth out of that base market.
Is it bigger-ticket items is it new product introductions or is it market share that are contributing to this better-than-average better-than-expected growth? That's a great question.
One of the great questions I think is -- one of our big product lines are hand tools we guarantee them for life.
So how is it we have a business at all? And the answer is is what happens in the marketplace particularly in the auto repair marketplace there's a tremendous motion of technology that creates the requirements things like the spring tool like the Push-Pull Spring Tool I talked about and a number of other products.
And so when you look at this business you see -- first and foremost you see innovative new products rolling out because our Snap-on Value Creation around customer connection and innovation is working better before -- better than ever before and we're having more hit products than we've ever had 5 or 6 times what we had just in 2006.
So you see a lot of those and that creates excitement.
So we're doing that better.
Underlying that is the change in the vehicles that's one.
Two is we're reaching more customers because we're enabling our van drivers to be more effective.
Part of that is really innovative marketing.
Things like the Rock 'N Roll Cab Express and the TechKnow Express and other things we're doing on the van to make our drivers better.
And this general productivity rolling through the van is pretty good.
And then thirdly the credit company.
Since we brought the credit company home we've learned more things about credit than we ever thought we could especially applied strategically in the marketplace.
And all this is coming together with a team that's starting to learn this.
And the Tools Group is singing.
I mean you see the sales of 6.6% this quarter and I think that last second quarter it was 7% and the second quarter before that it was 10% and the second quarter before that it was 10% and the second quarter before that it was 7.6%.
Now I'm not -- as I say we think -- we say we're going to grow organically at 4% to 6% and the Tools Group by all rights should be at the lower end of that and that's what we keep saying.
But our team in the Tools Group is doing a great job and they are expanding their position.
I'm not going to say we have a bigger market share but I kind of like the numbers.
Research Division</strong> And real quickly on C&amp;I you see -- continuing to see some momentum build in Europe.
Are there any verticals or critical industries that are doing particularly well? Look I think Europe the play is more by country perhaps you might say that.
I mean I think no particular industry.
I don't think you're seeing the construction industry come back too quickly.
And we felt -- in some of that the agricultural industries are good big industry is good aviation is okay.
But I want to emphasize what I said in my call we're growing mid-single digits in Europe in places like Germany and France and even Spain the U.K.
and this is defying the GDP.
The GDP in Germany for example is forecasted in the second quarter at 1.8% France is 0.4% Spain is 1% U.K.
is 3.1%.
So our guys are outgrowing the GDP.
I just think it's the fact that we have had faith in that market.
We're seeing our customers didn't go away continuing to pound Snap-on Value Creation making them more efficient and in one of the more efficient places is developing better products more innovative products.
And that's playing out now that they're seeing even a little sliver of daylight.
That's what's working for us there.
There's nothing particularly special I think it's just being in a proper position when a little bit of opportunity presents itself.
And we'll now take our next question from David Leiker from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on the organic growth.
It seems like -- well it doesn't seem like we've had an acceleration in the growth rates the 6.6% across the company.
My numbers show that's the best since the first quarter of 2002.
Do you think there's something in particular going on this quarter that's behind that? Or do you think this is an inflection higher and a new trend of a higher pace of sales than we've seen the last 2 years? Look it's better than a stick in the eye to see the 6.6% of course.
And I'm still sticking to my 4% to 6%.
I think we're quite pleased with what we saw in the second quarter.
We always know that -- and we're seeing positive trends what are we like 5% in the first quarter and so on.
So we're seeing our businesses start to become more effective and I think there are elements inside these businesses that are working that way.
I think as we look forward I think we expect this kind of trend to continue but I think 4% to 6% is the right -- are the right numbers.
But when you look at these numbers you feel certainly more encouraged about that 4% to 6%.
As I've said on every quarter 2 call I've been on -- and I'm not pre-staging anything up or down -- the third quarter is always squirrely because we've got vacations and so on where the technicians take vacation.
They go to the FSC.
They park their van and Europe is off in July and August depending on where you are.
And you'll never know when the distributors are going to come back and so it's more difficult to predict that.
But if I think if you look out over the trend the quarters we're going to see -- and I'm not predicting anything bad or -- in that I'm just saying there always is more turbulence more windage in that quarter.
Over time I think this is got to be encouraging to us.
Research Division</strong> And then if we look at the gross profit and the currency headwinds Aldo I think or Nick I don't remember which one called out Australia and Canada in particular.
Is that shifting from the U.S.
into those markets? That's what it is.
Research Division</strong> The transactional effect where is that coming from? Tools Group.
And it hits us in 2 places.
Those particular currencies of course you have translation because we have operations there and they do okay.
And so to the extent the Canadian dollar is smaller and the Australian dollar is weaker there's an impact on translation both at the sales line and the operating income line.
But the big effect was transaction as you're referencing here where we sell -- what we're talking about here mostly here in Canada is taking the Tools Group and selling out of the United States factories into those jurisdictions.
And so what happens is you've got a selling price that now is less in U.S.
dollars and so you try to punch it up but it takes a while to move the selling price up to match that.
And so you -- inevitably when currencies go down you have transaction effects and that's what's happening there.
The currencies -- where the currencies are now -- there's variations as we go through the year.
But where the currencies are now they -- I think they're about where they were at the end of last year I think roughly if you look at all the currencies together.
So I don't see any trends for the end of the year I don't see any changes in that currency position.
Research Division</strong> It sounds like you -- a lot of the transactional aspect of those maybe diminishing some it sounds like you...
Yes maybe.
I think look I think the advantage -- you might be entitled to the following.
The -- when you look at the currencies and you start playing out month by month there's a lot of variations.
All I'm saying is when you get to the end of the year there's a lot less variations from where we are now.
So there's -- it goes in and goes out as you go through the year.
But from an operating guy point of view you might be entitled to the idea that if the currency drops like in Australia and Canada we'd be trying to push up the pricing to recapture some of that.
That's where I -- yes you would be.
Research Division</strong> And I guess the question is as we look at it sequentially here how long does it take for that pricing to start to flow through the numbers? I don't know.
It's a long -- I can't give you any number.
It's like -- you know how this works.
Okay you try to move the pricing up and maybe it doesn't hold so well and so on.
So it's not an exact science.
You just charge your operating guys with saying "Look let's try to get some of this back." It doesn't always work.
Sometimes it does work.
For example this time last year we had a big ding in India for example and it took us a long time to get us back up and we're still not back up but we got some of it back.
Research Division</strong> And then the last item for me is you've done a great job across your businesses.
Arguably in those businesses you're outgrowing your competitors.
What are you seeing across I don't know a couple of the businesses? Maybe you can do this.
What are you seeing the competitive reaction from your competitors as you guys continue to put up this strong performance? I can only tell you what I hear from the people on the ground.
And so I was just out at Joliet where the drag race we had the Nationals.
The NHRA drag race out there the Nationals and we hosted 1 200 customers.
I talked to a number of them almost all of them probably.
And they didn't mention the competition whatsoever.
So I didn't hear anybody say -- hey I'm not saying people aren't doing stuff.
I'm not saying they aren't smart people.
I'm not saying they're not aggressive in trying to do things.
But what I'm getting feedback from in the operations and at the grassroots are mostly focused on how we can get better how we can strengthen our position with the customer.
It's all about our relationship with the customer.
It's almost never "Oh I got this competition that's going to bother me." It's almost all focused on our relationship.
And I think this is the kind of feedback you get from a market leader of which we are clearly the leader in almost all these segments.
And we'll now take our next question from David MacGregor from Longbow Research.
I wanted to ask you -- clearly you're benefiting from a lot of the innovation that you're taking to market.
And I know historically there's been sort of a fairly set level of spending on innovation with respect to revenues.
So I guess the question is just what's gating you or limiting you from just accelerating your innovation investment? And where do you think the sort of the point of diminishing marginal returns are on that investment program? I don't know.
Look I think what gates it is our own capability.
At some level we're not smart enough to do any more.
And so part of it though is I think -- that's one and what I mean by that is this: our drive for innovation has to do with our observations in the field.
It's not gated by the innovation back here.
So in terms of that -- what I mean back here I mean at the center the R&amp;D labs and so on.
So what I mean by that is we're gated by how many people for how many hours we have in the workplace.
Our R&amp;D spending is up and it'll fluctuate from time to time and we spend more in different places.
And I guess you would say that over time we're growing our capability hiring more engineers.
But in my view the big pacing item is around the unique strategic value that Snap-on has.
That is the understanding of the marketplace and the feedback of that understanding into the innovation system that creates these new products.
As I talked about today that tool for the transmission door -- for the power generation door the transformer door -- that came out of observing how people service transformers.
Somebody was there watching and said "Boy we can save a lot of time." Or the thing with the springs.
Somebody's in the garage watching the springs being unloaded or taken out of the vehicle and watching them fly all over the place and watching mechanics chase them around.
That fed back into "Boy we can make this more productive." That's the key and that's what feeds us.
But it’s a unique value and strategic advantage we have and that's what we're wielding to greater effect now.
How do you know you're pricing the innovation properly with so much innovation coming down the pipe? How do you explore kind of the upside or the elasticity? Geez I don't know.
I think we're priced pretty high now.
I mean we think we're up there in terms of pricing.
I don't think anybody's ever asked us "Are you too shy in your pricing?" I don't think anybody's thought that.
Now you could ask "Okay where do you price it?" And I think we get that from the field.
We have our franchisees our franchise performance teams that are out there and right -- if you want to take the Tools Group.
And with technicians who are out there all the time in the marketplace and they have a feel for what a tool will sell for.
And I think then we kind of price off our own -- our former tool and say "How much innovation is this? How much would it be worth for the customer? How flashy will this be?" And we make a judgment.
It's probably not as analytic as you would hope in some orbs but our position in the marketplace is more an art informed by tremendous understanding of the customer.
Okay.
Second question just -- obviously you've had a lot of success with the Rock ‘N Roll Cab Express the TechKnow Van.
It's been driving big-ticket sales.
It's been driving growth in the Tools segment.
But if you exclude those big-ticket storage and diagnostics business can you just talk about what you're seeing in terms of possible acceleration and growth for sockets and wrenches and just the core tool [indiscernible]? Actually the sockets and the wrenches are up somewhat higher than the average this quarter.
So that's going okay.
I think -- yes the sockets might be up higher so that's -- so we don't see any diminutization of that I don't think.
I think -- look I think you could argue that to the extent that we have more innovation and we punch into new areas and come up with more ideas that aren't exactly wrenches and sockets they become a smaller percentage of course but they're no less important.
In fact I was on a van in Encino California last week.
One of our van drivers Matt Scott he took me around to a Mercedes dealer and a Tesla dealer where I saw a huge number of Snap-on tools and Snap-on boxes.
And a couple of young technicians got on the van.
Mark Scott [ph] he had been technician for like 5 years and Juan Gutierrez [ph] gets on and he's only 3 years.
And they all have like -- they'll say "I have 5 or 6 ratchets already but I need this special low-profile ratchet to get inside this particular product." So I think there is no shortage of need for innovative new hand tools ratchets and sockets and wrenches even with young technicians even today even at a place like Tesla.
And we will now take our next question from Gary Prestopino from Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
But Nick in terms of what you're doing in the van channel with the Rock 'N Roll vans and the TechKnow vans have you expanded that outside of the U.S.
to other countries where you...
Yes we've got about 5 outside the U.S.
I don't know -- sometimes when people say "outside the U.S.
" we're talking -- I think for purposes of the way you asked the question yes 53 of the 58 Rock 'N Roll cabs are inside the United States.
We don't have one in Hawaii I guess.
We've got one in Puerto Rico.
And we've got 4 or 5 in Canada we've got 4 in Canada.
So yes but there haven't been as pushed as far outside the U.S.
Canada is -- the routes are broader so there's a different approach there I think.
You could argue "Should they be in the U.K.
and Australia?" And we're looking at that now.
Well maybe there's an opportunity there I'm not -- we're not sure yet.
And we will now take our next question from Richard Hilgert from Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First one looking at the Financial Services balance sheet.
We've been expecting the growth rates on the receivables to progressively come down a little bit because you've grown the base over the last 5 years and as the company continues to grow you're adding to that base but the base is a much larger base.
But we've seen here the first couple of quarters of this year that it seems like the growth in financial receivables has accelerated a little bit and I was curious if there's anything going on there.
This is Aldo Richard.
First off sure the first half of the year has been a strong beginning for Financial Services and it reflects -- if you go back over time the trailing 12-month performance of our big-ticket items is really where the sweet spot for Financial Services does well and it continues to do so.
So we're pleased with that and we work in concert with the Tools Group to organize programs that call attention both to the tools that we like to feature in the Tools Group and the innovative products that Nick described earlier as well as programs that we have to make them attractive to the customers of the franchisees -- that is the mechanics.
So our participation rates have been a little bit better.
And again first half of the year has been pretty good for Snap-on Credit.
Long way we continue with the view that over time 90-plus percent of what the Financial Services unit does is in support of the Tools Group.
And over time it will reflect the long-term growth rates of that division.
So that's still the advice that we give when we model it ourselves internally and I guess when we talk to people like yourself.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Looking at the quarterly CapEx.
That's at an absolute level one of the highest I've seen on a quarterly basis going back over the last 5 years.
Are we going to see an acceleration in CapEx going forward beyond the $75 million $80 million that we're looking at this year? No.
Look I don't think so.
I think just -- I think we said we were at $70 million to $80 million last quarter now we said $75 million to $80 million.
But this is just -- a few more projects came up that we thought we could invest in.
They were talking about the tools factories in the United States there's some investment in Asia doing some in Europe and some in R&amp;D or in our places here.
I think you're seeing kind of noise in the quarter and with a maybe slight bias for upward movement.
But if I was -- shall I say if I was a cash flow modeler for example I wouldn't be thinking that CapEx is going to explode or get much higher.
It'll move up over time but I'm not thinking we're going to double it or go up by 50% next year or anything like that.
Of course I'd probably have a big project next quarter that I'll announce but I don't think so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then on the margins for the quarter being what they are and Europe still being -- what is it roughly 20% of overall revenue? That's about right.
Research Division</strong> Yes any thoughts to -- you've had this target out there of mid-cycle -- or pardon me mid-teens EBITDA margins.
But even with Europe and the softness over there we've seen it come back this quarter you're still able to generate an EBIT margin above 16.5% EBITDA margin slightly ahead of 19% that's excluding or having Financial Services on an equity basis.
Any thoughts to maybe that target of yours moving up a little bit given the progress you've made but still having a big chunk of revenues still being slow? Hey look.
Here's what I think I would say on that and I think we've said this effect in other orbs.
I think we're looking at the mid-teens in the rearview mirror what we thought was the mid-teens and so we're by that now.
And that doesn't mean we won't have a quarter that's below that don't -- that doesn't -- I don't mean that every quarter or anything like that but I'm talking about the trend.
I think we've passed our goal that we set back in what 2005 or something like that when we were back at 6.5% OI margin.
We said mid-teens.
But what we're saying -- I think we're viewing it going forward it's not necessarily a target but I'm telling you that absent macroeconomic turbulence of significance we see -- we don't see ourselves being interrupted in terms of our growth.
We do think that if we never got another dollar of incremental sales we would be able to increase the margins because of Snap-on Value Creation and its effect on the operations and there's so much more to improve.
And secondly we do believe though that we're not going to be flat.
We think we have ample runways for growth in the van channel with the repair shop owners and managers with the extending critical industries in emerging markets and that's going to add leverage to that.
So we see our margins continuing to go up at some pace and we don't necessarily see a near-term ceiling to that.
That doesn't mean there isn't a ceiling some place.
But we're sitting here [indiscernible] we see that.
So I'm not saying we're at a ceiling or anything like that.
At this time there are no further questions in the queue.
I would like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Kratcoski.
Great.
Thanks everyone for joining us today.
A replay of this call will be available shortly and as always we appreciate your interest in Snap-on.
Thanks and have a great day.
And this does conclude today's call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Snap-on Incorporated Third Quarter Results Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Ms.
Leslie Kratcoski Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Ryan and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to review Snap-on's third quarter results which are detailed in our Press Release issued earlier this morning.
We have on the call today Nick Pinchuk Snap-on's Chief Executive Officer; and Aldo Pagliari Snap-on's Chief Financial Officer.
Nick will kick-off our call this morning with his perspective on our performance.
Aldo will then provide a more detailed review of our financial results.
After Nick provides some closing thoughts we'll take your questions.
As usual we've provided slides to supplement our discussion.
You can find a copy of these slides on our website next to the audio icon for this call.
These slides will be archived on our website along with a transcript of today's call.
Any statements made during this call relative to management's expectations estimates or beliefs or otherwise state management's or the company's outlook plans or projections are forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those made in such statements.
Additional information and the factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are contained in our SEC filings.
With that said I'd now like to turn the call over to Nick Pinchuk.
Nick.
Thanks Leslie.
Good morning everybody.
As usual I’ll start with the third quarter highlights provide an update on the environment and speak a bit on the trends.
Aldo will then provide a detailed review of the financials.
In the third quarter we again showed progress along our runways for growth and for improvement and we saw those gains across all our business segments.
Sales were up 7% from last year 5.6% of acquisition related volume coupled with a 6.2% organic rise.
Our operating margin before Financial Services reached 16.2% up 140 basis points.
When you add the $37.7 million in operating earnings from Financial Services which increased from $31.6 million in 2013 the consolidated operating margin was 19.6% in EPS.
That was $1.76 up $0.33 or 23.1% from the $1.43 registered just last year.
For our automotive related businesses the environment it continues to be favorable.
Actually it’s been this way for a while and our Tools Group and our Repair Systems &amp; Information or RS&amp;I Group are both well positioned to take advantage.
You can see that in the performance; another quarter of solid gains for both groups.
Clearly the enhancements to the franchise network and our expansion with dealerships and independent repair shops are driving a continuing positive trend.
In the Commercial &amp; Industrial Group or the C&amp;I Group there was also direct evidence of growing strength.
SNA Europe activity increased again now up three straight quarters.
The industrial division Critical Industries grew by double digits showing gains in both the U.S.
and internationally and the Bellwether emerging markets of China and India they also registered a quarter of relatively robust progress.
Now as in past periods C&amp;I does have some headwinds.
The European economies are mixed with particular turbulence in the east.
The U.S.
military somewhat recovered from its prior lows and is still uncertain territory and various Asian countries can be impacted from time to time by local conditions; elections or changes in economic policies like the new tax levels in Japan.
But you know there will always be headwinds.
They’ve been a factor in each of our quarters for sometime.
They were present again in the third quarter and we overcame because we are well positioned to confront the challenges and proceed down our runways for growth enhancing the franchise network expanding repair shop owners and managers extending to critical industries and building in emerging markets.
These do represent avenues for considerable advancement and there has been clear and consistent progress in along each of those paths and the third quarter is more testimony.
At the same time those growth drivers are joined and supported by the benefits of Snap-on value creation safety quality customer connection innovation and rapid continuous improvement or RCI.
These are the processes the tools we use each and everyday to drive improvement.
Our quarterly results the increases in operating margin demonstrate progress along each of these dimensions but this quarter especially in customer connection and innovation.
Customer Connection: Snap-on’s continuing pursuit of Repair Shop insight the understanding of our customers work based on the hours and the days we spend with working men and women.
Innovation: Taking that practical insight and matching it with a keen understanding of what’s made possible by modern technology.
Into the quarter those processes resulted in three prestigious product awards all are evidence of Snap-on bringing it together the practical with the possible for a good effect.
We were again honored with the MOTOR Magazine Top 20 Tools Awards.
The winner this time was the Two-Piece Impact Swivel Extension Set created to assist technicians to difficult to reach fasteners like transmission bolts driveline bolts cylinder heads.
Its laser-welded pivot pin allows for smooth full 30 degrees swivel action and more efficient power transfer.
Great for those difficult bolts and heads in tight spaces.
It clearly makes critical work easier.
Snap-on also received two Professional Tool &amp; Equipment News Innovation Awards for the Semi-Deep Flip Socket in the Hand Tools category and for our Digital Video Borescope the BK6500 in the Inspection Tools category.
Our Flip Socket saves technicians time.
The convenience to using one tool to remove the two most common sizes of underbody fasteners it speeds up things in the shop we see it.
I’ve mentioned this tool before.
The P10 (ph) Award is just another accolade for what has turned out to be a very popular offering and great example of customer connection combining with innovation.
Also recognized by the P10 (ph) was our new BK6500 Digital Video Borescope offering a true digital image and the largest viewing screen in the market.
It diagnoses internal engine problems inspects door panels checks for corrosion inside radiators examines break pad wear and looks inside transmissions and axel housing all time saving activates.
I mention these awards because they are just the most recent recognitions of a growing list of popular hit parade products that provide unique customer connection and guided advantages fueled by the observations of our franchises and direct sales people all committed to connecting with our professional customers and translating that insight into productivity innovations and Snap-on advantage and all of that shows in the result of each group in the third quarter.
Now to focus on those individual groups.
Lets start with C&amp;I.
Lets start with the Commercial &amp; Industrial Group.
Organic sales were up 9.4% with sales to customers in critical industries leading the way.
Operating margins reached 13.7% up 60 basis points from last years 13.1% volume growth and the benefits of Snap-on value creation and customer connection had a hand in those results the C&amp;I results as well.
Our industrial direct salesmen recognized the difficult of torquing large fasteners in the constrain spaces so common to power generation plants.
Our engineering team used this insight to develop or revised torquing process utilizing a special compact torque wrench configured specifically for closed corners.
The new process makes work easier makes tasks easier for professionals all over the critical power generation industry; courtesy of Snap-on Customer Connection &amp; Innovation.
Speaking of critical industries broad progress was clearly evident in the quarter.
Power generation activity aerospace volumes shipments to natural resource customers and sales to the U.S.
military all critical and all up by strong double-digits.
Lets talk about the U.S.
military for a moment.
Entering the year it had been a headwind due to budgetary constrains.
But a recent resurgence has caused for guarded optimism.
With that said the availability of future government funding and the timing of order activity remained difficult to predict and so the overall trajectory of military sales is still uncertain but its been improving.
As for SNA Europe that operation recorded overall gains again.
Our fourth straight quarter of growth and it continues its positive trajectory of profitability.
Operating margin was up again this quarter well outpacing volume.
Not only leveraging the additional activity but realizing the benefits of RCI and past restructuring activities.
SNA Europe strong.
So that provides a bit of color on C&amp;I.
Now onto the Tools Group.
Organic sales up 6% significant growth in the U.S.
and internationally.
Operating income in the quarter of $49.5 million compared to $41.9 million in 2013.
Operating income margins of 13.9% rose 130 basis points from last year’s 12.6%.
The additional volume as well as the operating improvements from RCI translated into significant margin gains.
When you consider the root to the Tools Group success some of it can also be found in the growing power of Snap-on value creation.
I’ve spoke often about the Rock N Roll Cab Express vans enhancing the franchisees sales opportunities through expanded space so we can display the full range of tool storage products to customers.
If you have been following these calls you know its been working and the third quarter was no exception.
But beyond the selling assist the Rock N Roll vans have served as a valuable platform for customer connection.
We’ve uncovered a wide of range of tool storage innovations for trim drawer colors and other features all from the interaction on the van.
A recent example is a newly introduced super wide drawer now installed as a popular option in the epic tool storage line.
The idea came from the Rock N Roll Van and now it’s a big seller helping to stock the Tools Group growth.
Third quarter is also when we hold the Annual Snap-on Franchisee Conference our SFC.
This year was in Orlando.
More than 8 000 attended.
Principals from over 3 000 North American routes and their families and their guests; product showcases business seminars new van operating programs all designed to build franchisees success and in a follow-up survey the franchisees almost unanimously recommended participating in next year’s conference a great endorsement.
But beyond the formal survey beyond that survey I was there myself.
I spent time with many franchisees and I believe I have never seen the more positive about their presence or with greater confidence in the future the Tools Group; awarding winning products unique mobile demonstration vehicles like the Rock N Roll Express and motivated and committed franchisees.
We’ve made it a priority to invest in the franchisee proposition and it’s showing in the third quarter results.
When you speak of the van channel we also must consider the strategic contributions of Snap-on credit.
Our Financial Services arm helps create opportunities across our origination but especially within the Tools Group.
Credit had a strong presence in Orlando at the SFC supporting franchisees with innovative new programs aimed at enabling sales of those big-ticket items which are so essential to franchisees success.
And if you look at the numbers Financial Services OI up $6.1 million or 19.3% in the quarter you know its working.
Now lets move to RS&amp;I.
Total sales were up 7.3% 4.4% organically excluding the Pro-Cut acquisition.
The operating margin 23.3% increased from 22.9% last year.
The volume gains came primarily from higher sales and essential programs to OEM dealerships and from increases in diagnostics and repair information products serving independent repair shop owners and mangers.
In the third quarter the RS&amp;I Group through the Equipment Solutions Division expanded our profile in automotive dealerships with several essential tool programs supporting vehicle launches putting new models and redesigns or existing platforms.
Equipment solutions also provided new essential diagnostics for specific repair campaigns; one designed to identify electrical issues and to other to isolate causes of vibration and noise; new essential programs for dealerships launched in the quarter and helping fuel RS&amp;I growth.
Serving in the independent shops Mitchell 1 again recorded significant gains with its heavy-duty repair connect product securing business with several new key customer networks.
Repair Connect provides a complete range of trust repair information and solutions for independent and fleet truck shop and its becoming widely embraced across the heavy-duty market place.
Customer connection also played a large role at RS&amp;I during the quarter.
For example for under car equipment repair shop insight guided the development of a communicating like between our wheel balancer and customer information networks unique data such as tread depth and the radial and lateral run out can now be shared directly with the customer’s database.
And in the quarter this feature was the deciding factor in converting a large German supplier of wheel logistics to the Snap-on balance of the line up and there are many more similar examples.
We also introduced our most recent acquisitions to international customers at Automechanika the biannual Automotive Industry event held during September in Frankford.
Challenger Lifts were presented at the show for the first time as part of the Snap-on family and it generated broad interest with a wide range of customers from diverse geographies signaling a new international opportunity for that product line.
Pro-Cut was also introduced at the show as a Snap-on product line and the audience was attentive and appreciative.
We believe it’s a sign of good things to come.
So as you can see there was a lot of initiatives across many end customers dealerships and independence domestic and international all contributions to RS&amp;I gains in serving repair shop owners and mangers.
Well that’s the highlights of the quarter.
Sales up 7% fueled by significant increases across the board in each group clear evidence of progress along all our runways for growth.
Snap-on value creation driving improvement customer connection innovation solving critical tasks and offering hit parade products growth and improvement brining our OI margin to 16.2% up 140 basis points.
It was an encouraging quarter.
Now I’ll turn the call over Aldo.
Aldo.
Thanks Nick.
Our third quarter consolidated operating results are summarized on slide six.
Net sales of $806.3 million in the quarter increased $53.1 million or 7% from 2013 levels reflecting broad-based gains across all of our operating segments.
Organically sales increased 6.2% excluding $5.6 million of acquisition-related sales and $0.7 million of favorable foreign currency translation.
Consolidated gross profit of $393.9 million increased $29.6 million from 2013 levels.
The gross margin of 48.9% in the quarter increased 50 basis points primarily due to the benefits from higher sales and savings from ongoing RCI initiatives.
Operating expenses of $263.3 million increased $10.3 million primarily due a higher volume related and other expenses.
The operating expenses margin of 32.7% improved 90 basis points from 33.6% a year ago mainly due to sales volume leverage.
Restructuring costs of $2 million in the quarter compared with $1.7 million of such costs last year.
As a result of these factors operating earnings before Financial Services of $130.6 million in the quarter increased $19.3 million or 17.3% and as a percentage of sales improved 140 basis points to 16.2%.
Operating earnings from Financial Services of $37.7 million increased 19.3% over prior year levels.
Consolidated operating earnings totaled $168.3 million and the operating margin of 19.6% improved to 170 basis points from 17.9% a year ago.
Our third quarter effective income tax rate of 31.8% compared with 32.6% last year.
Finally net earnings in the quarter of $103.7 million or $1.76 per diluted share compared to net earnings of $84.6 million or $1.43 per share last year representing a 23.1% increase in earnings per share.
Now let's turn to our segment results.
Starting with the Commercial &amp; Industrial or C&amp;I Group on slide seven.
Sales of $298.8 million in the quarter were up 9.4% organically primarily reflecting a double-digit gain in sales to customers in critical industries and a single-digit sales increase in our European-based hand tools business.
Gross profit in the C&amp;I group totaled $111.8 million in the quarter.
Gross margin of 37.4% decreased 70 basis points from 2013 levels primarily due a shift in sales mix that included higher sales to the military as well as increased restructuring and other costs.
These year-over-year gross margin impacts were partially offset by savings from ongoing RCI initiatives including continued improvements within our European based hand tools business.
Operating expenses of $71 million in the quarter increased $2.2 million over 2013 levels primarily due to higher volume related and other expenses.
The operating expense margin of 23.7% improved 130 basis points mostly due to the sales volume leverage including benefits from the higher military sales.
As a result of these factors third quarter operating earnings for the C&amp;I segment of $40.8 million increased $4.8 million or 13.3% from 2013 levels and the operating margin of 13.7% improved 60 basis points from 13.1% last year.
Turning now to slide eight.
Third quarter sales in the Snap-on Tools Group of $355 million increased 6% organically reflecting mid-single-digit sales increases in both our U.S.
and international franchise operations.
Gross profit of $154.8 million increased $12 million from 2013 levels and the gross margin of 43.6% increased 80 basis points primarily due to benefits from higher sales and savings from RCI initiatives.
Operating expenses of $105.3 million in the quarter increased $4.4 million from 2013 levels primarily due to higher volume-related expenses.
The operating expense margin of 29.7% improved 50 basis points from 30.2% last year principally due to sales volume leverage.
As a result of these factors operating earnings of $49.5 million for the Snap-on Tools Group increased $7.6 million or 18.1% and the operating margin of 13.9% improved 130 basis points from 12.6% last year.
Turning to the Repair Systems &amp; Information or RS&amp;I Group shown on slide nine.
Sales of $271.2 million increased $18.5 million or 7.3% from 2013 levels.
Excluding $5.6 million of acquisition related sales or $1.6 million of favorable foreign currency translations organic sales were up 4.4%.
The organic sales increase primarily reflects a double-digit gain in sales to OEM dealerships and a mid single digit increase in sales of diagnostic and repair information products to independent repair shop owners and managers.
These organic sales increases were partially offset by a low single digit decline in under car equipment sales largely reflecting continued weakness in Eastern Europe related to demand for big-ticket items.
Gross profit of $127.3 million in the quarter increased $10.6 million over 2013 levels.
Gross margin of 46.9% increased 70 basis points as savings from ongoing RCI and other cost reduction initiatives were partially offset by a shift in sales that included higher volumes of lower gross margin products including increased essential tool and vacillation sales to OEM dealerships.<br> Operating expenses totaled $64 million in the quarter and the operating expense margin of 23.6% increased 30 basis points generally due to the inclusion of operating expenses for Pro-Cut.
Third quarter operating earnings of $63.3 million for the RS&amp;I group increased $5.4 million or 9.3% from prior year levels and the operating margin of 23.3% in the quarter improved 40 basis points from 22.9% last year.
Now turning to slide 10.
In the third quarter earnings from Financial Services of $37.7 million and revenues of $53.6 million compared with operating earnings of $31.6 million on revenue of $45.1 million last year.
The average yield on finance receivables of 17.6% compared with 17.4% last year and the average yield on contract receivables of 9.5% compared with 9.6%.
Originations of $221.6 million in the quarter increased 8% from 2013 levels.
Moving to slide 11 our quarter end balance sheet includes approximately $1.4 billion of gross financing receivables including $1.2 billion from our U.S.
Snap-on credit operation.
Approximately 80% of our U.S.
financing portfolio relates to extending credit loans to technicians.
During the third quarter our worldwide Financial Services portfolio grew approximately $39 million.
As for finance portfolio losses and delinquency trends these continue to be in line with our expectations.
Now turning to slide 12.
Cash provided by operations of $88 million in the quarter increased $3.7 million from comparable 2013 levels primarily due to higher 2014 net earnings offset by increased working investment.
Net cash used by investing activities of $56.6 million included $35.8 million to fund the net increase in finance receivables.
Capital expenditures of $22.3 million in the quarter compared with $19.3 million last year.
Turning to slide 13.
Day sales outstanding for trade and other receivables of 64 days at both the end of the second and third quarters compared with 62 days at 2013 year-end.
Inventories increased $50.2 million from 2013 year-end levels essentially to support continued higher customer demand and new product introductions and from the addition of inventories related to Pro-Cut.
On a trailing 12-month basis inventory turns of 3.6 compared with 3.7 at the end of the second quarter and 3.8 at 2013 year-end.
Our quarter-end cash position of $124.7 million decreased $92.9 million from 2013 year-end levels largely due to the repayment of $100 million of debt in March of this year.
The net decrease in cash also reflects year-to-date impacts of funding $549.2 million of new finance receivables; dividend payments of $76.8 million the repurchase of 591 000 shares for $67.5 million $63.3 million of capital expenditures and the acquisition of Pro-Cut for $41.3 million.
These uses of cash were partially offset by $425.1 million of cash from year-to-date collections of finance receivables and $300.7 million of cash from operations.
At the end of the third quarter our net debt to capital ratio was 25.9%.
In addition to our $124.7 million of cash and expected cash flow from operations we have more than $700 million in available credit facilities and our current short-term credit ratings allow us to access the commercial paper markets.
At quarter end we had $36.7 million of commercial paper borrowings outstanding.
I'll conclude by mentioning a few outlook items for the remainder of the year.
We continue to expect that our full year 2014 effective income tax rate will be comparable to our 2013 rate of 32.3% and we continue to anticipate that capital expenditures for the year will be in the range of $75 million to $80 million.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Nick for his closing thoughts.
Nick? Thanks Aldo.
Well we are encouraged by our third quarter.
Sales up 7%; significant activity gains in each of our operating groups.
Yes sure there are headwinds but that’s nothing new.
Our growth trend has passed through turbulence in almost every quarter and we believe the third quarter performance again represents solid evidence of progress along our runways for growth enhance the franchise channel.
The Tools Group grew at 6% continuing its string of positive gains.
Group OI rose 130 basis points and we believe our network of franchisees are growing in strength and confidence.
Expanding with our repair shop owners and managers RS&amp;I grew at 4.4% had an OI margin of 23.3% and successfully continued the integration of Challenger and Pro-Cut.
Extend to critical industries.
Organic sales were increased 9.4%.
Strong gains in aerospace oil and gas and the military; SNA Europe sales growing again with profit rising even faster.
Build in emerging markets continuing to strengthen the physicals and seeing it payoff.
Progress along our runways for improvements.
Snap-on value creation safety quality customer connection and RCI offering great new products and improving profitability driving optical OI margin for the corporation to 16.2% up 140 basis points.
We do believe the quarter’s results are tangible evidence of the abundant opportunities available along our runways for growth and are clear confirmation of the power inherent in Snap-on value creation.
We’re encouraged but we believe there is more much more and our team is positioned with the capability and the intent to take full advantage and to continue the trajectory of positive performance for the foreseeable future.
Now before I turn to questions its time once again to speak to our franchisees and our associates.
I know many of you are listening.
The encouraging results of the third quarter and the ongoing favorable trends due to your extraordinary capabilities and your considerable effort.
For your contribution to our performance you have my congratulation and for your continuing commitment to our team you have my thanks.
Now I'll turn the call over to the operator.
Operator.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll take our first question from David Leiker with Baird.
Good morning everyone.
Hello David.
Good morning.
So can we talk Nick or Aldo just kind of the pace of sales through the quarter and there’s some concern that July and August might have been okay but September started the slowdown at all.
Is there anything you can characterize in terms of what you saw as you moved through the quarter? Well we never really characterized the calendarization of our sales but those who listen to us like you do those who listen or watch us would know this and that July and August are vacation seasons in the Europe and the United States.
For Europe and Northern Europe its July and then August in Southern Europe so July and August are afflicted by vacations and the same pretty much applies to the van business in the United States where we have the SSC in August for a reason because that’s when the guys who are driving the vans want to take a little vacation.
So you might be entitled to the fact that those months might be a little bit more tepid or certainly more variable and then you might be entitled to the fact that in a relatively strong quarter that quarter would have to be delivered at the end.
I think this is kind of logical sense.
So without commenting on the week-by-week or day-by-day I think you can infer that we had a fairly strong end given that our quarter is so large.
How much of the strength that your seeing both on the revenue side and the margin momentum carries over into Q4 and into 2015.
Well I don’t see anything that interrupts that strength I’d say that.
We never comment on the forward looking months but I think when I look at our positions along our run rates for growth and the power of our improvement we see it carrying over the positions with the franchisees.
They are more confident than ever before I said it just a few minutes ago.
You can see the critical industries.
The critical industries seem to be humming.
Military is coming back although I did say that can be uncertain but boy increases are better than a poke in the eye and its been increasing fairly well so you see that.
RS&amp;I just cranks along and anything in the auto repair business I think is fairly strong at this point.
And then just the last item on this what about Europe? Obviously there’s a lot of concern.
We talked to a lot of people.
Some think Europe might be rolling over.
The Europe business has been flat on its back for several years here and just starting to bounce up.
Any thoughts on how that might play out? Well a couple of things.
First of all certainly we see turbulence in the east like we said for several quarters.
We were up again the fourth straight quarter of growth in Europe and again they were on vacation in July and August so this is a fairly – from that perspective it was a fairly positive quarter in terms of trajectory sort of like trajectory.
And I will say our European business is coming off the mat.
We are still down 20% to 25% so we’ve got a long way to get back to where we were in 2008.
So I feel okay about Europe at this point.
Okay and then just one last item here.
Aldo in the working capital looking at the cash flow statement that’s about a $24 million increase in the use of working capital year-over-year.
I don’t think the acquisitions are in there but can you talk to that a bit.
Certainly.
The increase is largely reflective of higher demand plus our intention to provide better service levels to our customer base.
At this time you’ll pick up a little bit of a seasonality effect coming out of the Snap-On franchisee conference that you mentioned.
It was a pretty well attended conference pretty good order book and some of the inventory increase reflects that ordering activity.
Also accounts receivable are up pretty much the same.
64 days at it was at the end of last quarter but again that’s tied more to the sales increase.
Okay terrific.
Thank you very much.
Thanks David.
Bye.
And we’ll take our next question from Gary Prestopino with Barrington Research.
Hey good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Hey Aldo I kind of missed your narrative in terms of the sales increases in the RS&amp;I segment I think – what did you say it was high single digit sales to OEM dealerships and low single digit sales to independent repair shops.
No I think I said it was double-digit sales to OEM dealerships and mid to high single digits in sales of repair information and diagnostic products for the independent shops.
Thanks.
All right hey Nick I want to just talk obviously Europe and David mentioned this with his questions but could you tell us exactly how much the sales in Europe were up in the quarter if at all.
Well the sales if you are talking about SNA Europe it was up – I would say you could characterize it as low single digits.
Kind of the same as it was at the last quarter.
Although last quarter we would have characterized it as mid single digits so I mean it was a little bit lower.
But I think when I look at the total that goes in and goes out we saw some really strong growth in places like Spain and Italy and Denmark and Finland and some weakness in some other places.
Europe as always varying from quarter-to-quarter we think we kind of had the same quarter with volume growth again and leverage on the bottom line that outpaced the growth.
Okay.
Although collectively if you put all the European economies together they are a mess they are not growing.
I mean is it still a function of that.
You are penetrating the market at a greater rate adding new products just executing better is that really what…? I think that’s it.
I mean I think its – I spend a lot of time of this call trying to emphasize the power of customer connection and innovation by another way the mechanism by which we generate new products and so in Europe you have new products.
For example in Europe we have something called the Bahco ERGO Tool Management System.
A system which we put in critical applications.
The box which takes care of tool control is customized to the customer and we put Bahco tools inside.
It’s a version of what we do in the United States with the Snap-On brand only its Bacho and its fitted to each individual customer; that’s driving some of our sales so individual product improvement is helping.
Secondly we are just getting better at selling than we were before because of RCI and our efficiencies and thirdly I think to be frank here you know as I said I think I’ve said on many of these calls we are coming off a pretty deep dip.
We are down 20% to 25% so you know the world doesn’t have to be that rosy for us to grow.
And so I think you put those three things together and you would say look we’ve been growing in Europe for several quarters.
Four straight quarters now and people have been mourning for a while and we’ve just been growing through those headwinds.
Right.
And then could you give us some idea.
With the Rock N Roll vans and the TechKnow vans they are just the U.S.
based phenomenon correct? Not exclusively but mostly.
To give you an idea for example this quarter – I think in the end of the quarter we had like 59 Rock N Roll cabs.
I think about five were in the international outside of North America so there was a few and they grew a couple.
One in the United States one in North America and two in Europe and we have 25 TechKnow Express vans and they are just in the U.S.
Okay.
Are there plans to expand the actual physical van count for both of those categories? Well there’s certainly a plan to – the Rock N Roll cab we’ve got quite a few.
I would think international we’d be adding a few more perhaps; we’ll be looking at that.
U.S.
we’ve got kind of pretty much the nation covered.
You might add one or two as you go forward.
The TechKnow Express there are plans to add more as we go forward.
Okay.
And just in terms of your best guesses that on basis points of sales I mean what would be the incremental contribution from having these vans out there to the Tools Group sales.
Gee its hard for me to say Gary because they don’t actually sell they just promote the product.
And so they go out there and are like a rolling showroom and the guy gets on.
As you know he gets on the van.
He sees all these tool storage boxes or these diagnostic units and he ends up ordering from the franchisee who is in that territory.
So it’s a tough guess to say well would it have sold anyway? Certainly what’s happened is since we’ve had the Rock N Roll cabs for like a couple of years now tool storage has outpaced the tools group for sometime and our big ticket items again which is a favorable sign actually big ticket items outpaced the Tools Group sales in general and that of course has been driven by this but I don’t think we have a number.
We just know they are helping us.
We believe they are paying back.
We can afford them because of the 6% growth the 6% growth this time the 6.6% last time the 6.6% the time before that and the drop to 130 basis points improvement.
We believe it’s in the mix but we haven’t worried about payback in general or how much it’s boosting.
Sorry I can’t help you too much.
Well that’s fine.
Thank you very much.
Yes sure.
We’ll take our next question from David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
Yes good morning everyone.
Great job.
Great quarter Nick.
Thanks.
Yes outstanding.
We did a great job.
Yes everybody really pulled together and it really shows.
I guess I had similar questions about franchisee productivity for next year and you’ve had the Rock N Roll cab Express and TechKnow vans.
Clearly financing opportunities have been a facilitator to some degree and of course you’ve had a very strong new product introduction queue.
Are there other things driving franchisee productivity into 2015 and maybe can you talk specifically about the extent to which financing opportunities are enhancing franchisee productivity.
You talked about it at the conference.
There was a strong… Sure.
I mean I can talk about this a little bit.
The thing is there’s a number of things.
I think first is just general productivity.
We’ve got the Rock N Roll van the TechKnow Express and what they are doing is they are amplifying the power of the space that’s the van.
The van after all is rolling retail space and TechKnow Express and the Rock N Roll cabs are amplifying that on a time-shared basis from route to route and that’s clearly allowed us to reach out for more technicians.
You know as I said we don’t call on all the technicians.
We don’t have all the technicians on our sales book at one time in the United States.
So we have opportunity to add more just from those at existing basis that’s helping.
Secondly it’s a productivity issue because our guys are real busy and so the idea doing something like RCI just like a factory.
Looking at the van like a factory figuring how to make work easier for them ratchet repair for example.
Making the ratchet repair more easier is one thing we can do things like that how to bounce inventory.
We’ve just rolled out; we’re rolling out and its kind of completing the roll out of a brand new point of sale computer system.
We call it chrome.
It’s going to help the van drivers’ productivity immensely and then when it comes to finance finance is just a matter of since its now in the house the finance programs are tailoring.
The credit companies are tailoring their programs just to what the franchisee needs and therefore making it easier for him; one from an actual point of view and an execution point of view and two not in substantial making it easier to understand.
We’ve done a lot of work in making these programs easier to understand.
I would say four years ago you kind of needed a semi PA.
You needed to be an analyst at one of the Wall Street firms or one of the investment firms to be able to understand some of these credit programs but now it’s a lot easier and so those are the kinds of things we’re doing.
So when you talked about rolling out a line of new credit programs at the conference this year were they just easier to understand or was it making credit more available? Well easier to understand one; and two making credit more available and this way we did a couple of things.
One is we refined our model so that we can think about the actual credit the actual applicant and better decide whether it’s a good risk or not a risk and want to take the credit.
And then look at the franchisee and consider more effectively the franchisees record in choosing and recommending and collecting when making a choice around that and putting that together in the credit profile and allowing more people to get credit because the combination of the franchisees endorsement and the credit rating of the individual borrower the customer made it for a more target rich environment for us a more informative environment and therefore we were able to do a little bit more activity.
You are just shifting gears to maybe growth by acquisition.
You’re putting some great organic growth numbers.
You talked about being willing to go forward and making growth by smaller acquisitions bolt on acquisitions.
Give us a sense of what you see over the next 15 days maybe 18 months.
We’ve got a long pipeline of possibilities and every quarter we’re acting on we’re reviewing acquisitions and considering possibilities.
Some of them are small some of them are pretty large I think but they are all what I would call coherent.
That is they lie on one of those four runways for growth in terms of enhancing the van channels and expanding repair shop owners and managers understanding critical industries and other things and so we’ve looked at some really big ones that would ease up a huge portion of our fire power and decided well maybe that isn’t for us or it isn’t quite – its only got a very – not enough of the business fits us and we’ve looked at some smaller ones like Pro-Cut and so on and we pulled the trigger but we’re looking at them actively all the time.
The pipeline the prospects are fairly large though and it continues to refresh.
I was just going to say can you remind us on your priorities.
Is there a particular segment your leaning towards or does it – what should we think about…? No the priorities are any of those runways for growth but as a practical matter as a practical matter expanding repair shop owners and managers giving us something more to sell like Pro-Cut brake lathes or a Challenger Lifts is something that is high priority.
Giving us something that would give us more to sell or give us more presence with critical industries is another area that we’d be looking at.
Now we would consider emerging markets with the vans but I think the acquisition targets are less.
There’s less available in those areas that fit so coherently in those places.
Last question is just across your three segments where do you still have the most immediate opportunity for RCI? I’d say C&amp;I but C&amp;I had an encouraging quarter 13.7% OI margin.
That is the highest OI margin ever by C&amp;I and the last – we only hit when its high the highest OI margin and we hit it in the second quarter of 2008.
It was on considerably more sales.
I think $20 million or $30 million more sales.
So in fact C&amp;I has made a lot of progress and we see more opportunity going for it but I hate to say that because to tell you the truth I think there is ample opportunity in all our businesses.
Like I said many times if we never got another dollar of incremental sales we would drive the profitability upwards.
Great.
Thanks very much.
And we will take our next question from Liam Burke with Wunderlich Securities.
Inc.
</strong> Thank you.
Good morning Nick.
Good morning Aldo.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Inc.
</strong> Nick could you give us a sense as with innovation being a big driver of growth how the pace of hot products have been this year.
Well yes sure.
I hate to I don’t like to pin myself down but we are ahead of last year.
Last year was a record.
I hesitate to say a record because it was as high as is more than we’ve seen since we’ve been measuring our hit parade products which by definition our definition is a product which sells $1 million in the first year after launch.
And you might remember that I said last year we hit a level that was lets say between four and five times what we had just in 2006 and we are ahead of last years pace as of now.
Now of course you got to launch it its got to sell a $1 million so who knows.
I think there’s some great products in the pipeline but whether the customers are going to like it or not I’m not sure.
Sometimes I’m not simpatico with the customers but fortunately the guys who launched the product and design are so I have confidence that we are ahead.
Inc.
</strong> Okay and on the diagnostics you spoke a lot about the system sales the service technicians? They’ve been strong.
We’ve had a good strong year in diagnostics.
We just launched a new product which is rolling out on our service line.
It’s got some great new features faster and having perform more capabilities bigger screen.
It’s incredibly profitability and its incredibly popular sorry incredibly popular and so I am positive about that.
Diagnostics is the movement of – people can relate to the RS&amp;I business because you see the information.
You can see the technology and the products.
But one thing I want to offer is when you are talking about critical industries you are talking about some – in the C&amp;I side you are talking about some fairly sophisticated items.
I was just down at an aerospace facility at an aircraft manufacturing and repair facility and I was talking to customers speaking to customers because that’s where it’s expanding.
I talked to one young technician there who started to take about low frequency ebbing current; an assessment of structural damage or structural weakness in airplane fuselage.
He is one of our customers using our tools and he is talking with great authority about this kind of technology or another different guys talking about magnetic residence to determine weaknesses in the fuselage.
So even on an RS&amp;I side I mean even on the C&amp;I side in critical industries you are seeing a tremendous deployment of technology in criticality that gives us opportunity to innovate around that.
Inc.
</strong> Great.
Thank you Nick.
Sure.
And we will go next to Richard Hilgert with Morningstar.
Thanks and good morning everybody good quarter.
Thanks.
Good morning Richard.
Most of my questions have already been asked but wanted to visit a little bit about the different between margin expansion from RCI during the quarter versus the improvement that we saw in volume and in areas like the military and over in Europe and especially Europe C&amp;I and in the hand tools side.
Can you differentiate there or give us some kind of an idea of what the degree is of margin improvement from both of those.
I kind of resist doing that.
If you look at our numbers over time I kind of view it like this.
I kind of view volume leverage and productivity at flat volume as horns on the same goat.
You basically get higher sales and you do it with the same people who are slightly less and it drops through with a great rate that’s RCI because you fundamentally enable your people to do more with the same.
Then now other people might call that leverage but we can consider that RCI if we see reasonable drop through.
And the same kind of thing its sort of the same version if the sales are flat and we are able to reduce cost like spend less or maybe use less do the same kind of support to the tools group but do it with less cost let fright for example less fright cost or less material cost or less design cost those kinds of things are a positive at flat sales.
But we try not to differentiate them.
We try to put them together and not worry about the difference.
Our only view is we will go up every quarter not every quarter we will go up in a trend continuously and we believe in that trend of improved profitability whether there is increased sales or not.
Increased sales it contributes to it because I think they intermingle and support each other.
But obviously breakeven has improved bottom line and I look at what EBITDA was five years ago versus where you are at today.
We are looking at a 900 basis points improvement from the bottom.
So any idea can you give us some kind of an idea of magnitude on – has the breakeven improved maybe 100 200 basis points in your opinion? You know I again resist it.
I don’t think of it in those terms.
I really don’t think of it in those terms.
I think of it in the terms that I just – I and the Snap-on team think of it in these terms.
We don’t necessarily look back so much.
We look forward and say – and not that we don’t know where we’ve come but we say to ourselves look our task.
We sit her now.
Our task is to improve next year improve going forward and we find components of that and we have programs which will generate savings associated with things like design cost reduction for products less material.
Maybe a little bit less expensive way to do the same thing with somewhat more quality we’ll do that or we’ll find ways to enable people on the line to be able to do more.
For example we will – I’ve done this myself.
We work in a factory and bring down setup times and that will allow more throughput to the factory and more changeovers in the factors so therefore more throughput and I can do more volume with the same people.
And so we don’t – and we have a myriad of projects in both those areas some of them work really well some of them don’t but I don’t think we worry ourselves so much about which ones contributed to us.
More or less we think about what’s the total result at the end.
That’s what’s worked for us for 900 basis points.
Okay.
Thanks for taking my questions and again congrats on the quarter.
All right.
Thank you.
And we have no further questions in the queue at this time.
I’d like to turn the conference back over to Ms.
Leslie Kratcoski for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks everyone for joining us today.
A replay of the call will be available shortly and as always we appreciate your interest in Snap-on.
Have a good day.
Thanks.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Snap-on Incorporated Fourth Quarter and Full Year Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Leslie Kratcoski.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Hannah and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to review Snap-on's fourth quarter and full year financial results which are detailed in our press release issued earlier this morning.
We have on the call today Nick Pinchuk Snap-on's Chief Executive Officer; and Aldo Pagliari Snap-on's Chief Financial Officer.
Nick will kick off our call this morning with his perspective on our performance.
Aldo will then provide a more detailed review of our financial results.
After Nick provides some closing thoughts we'll take your questions.
As usual we've provided slides to supplement our discussion.
You can find a copy of these slides on our website next to the audio icon for this call.
These slides will be archived on our website along with the transcript.
Any statements made during this call relative to management's expectations estimates or beliefs or otherwise statements on management's or the company's outlook plans or projections are forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those made in such statements.
Additional information and the factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements are contained in our SEC filings.
With that said I'll now turn the call over to Nick Pinchuk.
Nick? Thanks Leslie.
Good morning everybody.
I'll start with the highlights of our fourth quarter and our year.
I'll give you my perspective on the results on the markets and on the progress we've made.
Then Aldo will move into a more detailed review of the financials.
The results of our fourth quarter were encouraging with sales increases and profit gains across our businesses continuing our positive trend.
We had opportunities and we had headwinds.
We took advantage of those opportunities and we overcame the headwinds.
The result was organic sales growth of 9.8%.
If we include a $5.7 million contribution from Pro-Cut and $21.5 million of unfavorable foreign currency translation overall sales in the quarter were $857.4 million a rise of 7.5%.
Our EPS was $1.97 up 23.1% from the $1.60 in 2013.
And that rise reflects an opco operating margin of 16.9% an increase of 140 basis points.
Financial service earnings of $42.2 million in the quarter were also up significantly.
And the consolidated operating margin including both Financial Services and opco reached 20.4% an improvement of 190 basis points compared to the 18.5% of last year.
Looking at our markets.
The automotive repair-related segments continue to be favorable driven of course by expanding and aging car parts and year-after-year technology changes all driving demand for our product.
The Tools Group and the Repair Systems &amp; and Information or the RS&amp;I Group took advantage with volume growth by our van network and gains in OEM dealerships in independent repair shops confirming the progress.
But we also had opportunities rooted in our expanding capabilities and product lineup for the critical industries and in growing physical strength in emerging markets areas within the Commercial &amp; Industrial or C&amp;I Group arenas that were challenged by a variety of headwinds fluctuating currencies and macroeconomic turbulence in places like Eastern Europe Japan Indonesia and even the core of Western Europe.
Despite those challenges C&amp;I results were quite positive.
Higher volumes and favorable trends continued in our Industrial division progress across a range of critical industries.
And in a range of specific operations the quarter was a period of clear progress adding to our growing strength in that region.
Another feature of the quarter is that military activity was stronger.
I think if you've been listening to these calls all of you know that the critical -- that critical segment has been quite turbulent.
In fact the way forward is still unclear.
A significant level of budget uncertainty does remain and it's difficult to predict the military environment for any extended period.
However in the last quarter we did make the most of the available opportunities and registered considerable military growth.
It added to C&amp;I's positive trend.
So to wrap up the broad discussion of the markets I'd summarize the situation as generally positive across our businesses.
And know we'll always have headwinds.
We do believe that no matter what the environment we have the opportunity and the capability to advance our position.
We'll continue to progress against challenges along our runways for growth enhancing the franchise channel expanding Snap-on's presence in the garage extending to critical industries and building in emerging markets.
That strategic advancement when coupled with the Snap-on Value Creation Processes of safety quality customer connection innovation and rapid continuous improvement or RCI drives a significant and ongoing positive trend or performance.
And we believe that the results in the fourth -- first quarter and over the full year show just that.
Speaking of the full year Snap-on's EPS in 2014 was $7.14 an increase of 20.4% from 2013.
Driving those earnings was an opco operating margin of 16.3% up 120 basis points.
When we include the income from Financial Services of $149.1 million which rose $23.4 million the consolidated operating margin for the year was -- of 19.6% was up 150 basis points.
That performance came on sales of $3.3 billion a 7.2% year-over-year increase that reflected primarily in organic growth of 6.9%.
In 2014 full year gains were achieved from every group.
In the Tools Group a strengthened van channel with organic growth of 7.6% for the year.
RS&amp;I expanded reach with repair shop owners and managers up 4.9% organically.
And from the C&amp;I Group growth in critical industries and progress in emerging markets organic activity rising 9.5%.
All clear evidence of forward movement in the markets we serve.
Now let's move to a discussion of the groups and their quarters.
In the C&amp;I Group revenue in the quarter was up 5.3% from 2013 despite unfavorable foreign currency.
The organic sales increased 9.9% from broad contributions across the businesses.
The Industrial division paced the progress achieving double-digit gains in multiple critical industries.
Encouragingly SNA Europe posted a solid mid-single-digit rise offsetting significant European headwinds while the Asia/Pacific division recorded higher activity growing in emerging markets overcoming the present difficulties surrounding Japan.
From an earnings perspective C&amp;I income of $40.5 million increased $3.4 million compared to the prior year period and that represents an operating margin of 13.6% a rise of 50 basis points versus 2013.
C&amp;I performance in the quarter is exemplified by SNA Europe.
As I said sales gains despite difficulties and profits up sharply again.
RCI practiced over all those difficult days while the sales were falling.
That effort's paying off and we can see it in the SNA Europe numbers.
C&amp;I also advanced in penetrating critical industries.
Of particular note I think was our gains in power generation railroads and the oil and gas sectors.
And one product line that has gained traction in these areas is our Tools at Height offering drop prevention systems designed for a variety of industries and used to keep people safe and assets secure.
Falling objects is a leading cause of accidents in the workplace.
And a 3-pound tool falling from height can make quite an impact.
In other words don't get hit by a falling wrench.
It sounds rudimentary but it's a real workplace issue and a clear opportunity for Snap-on customer connection and innovation to provide unique solutions.
By ergonomically tethering our tools we provide our customers an engineered attachment system a productive and compliant solution maintaining the functionalities of tools used at height but with safety.
Guided by customer connection and solving these critical needs on oil rigs in the Gulf of Mexico or in major power plants in the U.S.
our Industrial division's Tools at Height drop prevention system are making work safer and more productive for our customers performing critical tasks.
The fourth quarter also grow -- saw a growth in the emerging markets of C&amp;I.
China and India led the way for the double-digit growth in our Asia/Pacific division.
And it's clear what's driving the progress.
Growing physicals more distributors more field training more Asian-ized products products like our new GLS2P4 [ph] the compact lift; or our new flexible -- our flexible new i-Aligner system both ideal for the smaller footprints in Asian shops.
And our expanding lineup of Blue-Point tool sets for the rising Asian vehicle repair market.
Each quarter each quarter we believe we build more Snap-on Asia/Pacific strength are better poised to continue our positive momentum and improve our position for the considerable repair wave we believe is coming in that emerging region.
Finally in C&amp;I.
Let me speak a moment about the evolution of our automated tool control system or ATC.
You may remember that the ATC we've spoken on it -- often about it on these calls is our tool security and inventory management system that uses advanced digital imaging technology and proprietary software to automatically keep track of critical tools.
Well in the fourth quarter the Industrial division reached a milestone.
There are now over 1 000 ATC systems deployed and the number's growing.
We started out aiming at aviation -- at the aviation industry.
But now through customer connection and innovation we redesigned the product to accommodate the very tool configurations found in the natural resource and railroad industries.
ATC systems are now solving problems for customers in both those segments and the momentum is building.
ATC an effective Snap-on concept extended to more customers helping drive C&amp;I growth.
Now on to the Tools Group where we posted organic sales increase an organic sales increase of 11.8%.
The operating earnings of $63.9 million representing a margin rate of 16.5% up 200 basis points from last year.
We often mention Snap-on runways for coherent growth guiding principles or our long-term sales opportunities and always prominently included is enhancing the franchise channel.
Well the results for the Tools Group in the quarter represent clear validation of the progress being made along that runway.
But in addition to the financial performance there's other evidence that authenticates the achievements.
Snap-on continues to be recognized as a franchise of choice.
Once again Snap-on was ranked among the top 25 in Entrepreneur Magazine's list of top-500 franchises.
And the Franchise Business Review which measures franchisee satisfaction recognized Snap-on as a top-50 franchise in its latest ranking marking the eighth consecutive year we received that award.
And again this quarter like always I had the opportunity to meet directly with franchisees at the fall meetings of our U.S.
and Canadian National Franchise Advisory Council.
And again on our recent kick-off meetings across the country each of the sessions generated valuable insight great feedback from an enthusiastic group of franchisees.
Based on their optimism I believe anyone interacting with these professionals would conclude our band network as stronger than ever before.
The Tools Group success can also be traced to customer connection and innovation essential parts of that Snap-on Value Creation.
This is the Tools Group's fifth consecutive year for success -- of growth for successful product ideas derived from collaboration efforts with our franchisees from discussions with technicians or from the independent observations of our associates.
An example of that customer connection and innovation is our newly introduced steering rack socket.
The accepted technique for replacing of power steering o-rings required removal of the entire power steering rack assembly followed by the use of a screwdriver and a hammer to change the o-ring.
The new Snap-on socket allows the tech to replace the o-ring while the power steering assembly remains in place.
It can save a full hour of labor.
And it's a winning timesaver and I can tell you on the van it's an attention grabber.
The steering rack socket is a clear example of Snap-on Value Creation customer connection and innovation moving us down our runways for improvement providing the means for an ongoing trajectory of positive performance.
And the fourth quarter results for the Tools Group our testimony that it's working.
Sales in the fourth quarter were -- moving to RS&amp;I.
Moving to RS&amp;I.
Sales in the fourth quarter were $282.8 million organic gains of 6.9% primarily reflecting stronger software sales in independent dealerships and essential tool activity with OEM dealerships.
If you add $5.7 million from our profile acquisition and $5.5 million of unfavorable foreign exchange overall reported sales were also up 6.9% in the quarter.
Operating earnings of $65.2 million rose $4.4 million with OI margin improving 10 basis points to 23.1% as the benefits of RCI offset variation in the group's business mix.
In the fourth quarter RCI (sic) [RS&amp;I] sales to vehicle OEMs grew strongly driven by several essential diagnostic programs tools for vehicle dealerships.
So we grew with OEMs and we grew with independent shops.
For the independent shops Mitchell 1 also registered growth in the quarter assisted by several multi-site placements of its ProDemand automotive and information product.
Mitchell 1 is advancing ProDemand with continuing integration of repair shop information enhanced navigation and improved mobility.
Strengthening the product line and driving volume gains ProDemand is becoming essential for effective repairs.
In the quarter RCI also -- RS&amp;I also continued the introduction of its newest handheld diagnostic unit the SOLUS Edge.
With an updated processor and easier viewing features our new SOLUS Edge offers a 50% increase in speed as well as a 15% larger screen size.
And as you might expect it's shaping up to be one of the most successful diagnostic rollouts.
Along with our advancements to our handheld hardware we also continue to enhance our software offering; fewer navigations steps better user experience Snap-on diagnostics simply helping the technicians to fix cars easier and faster.
For heavy trucks our PRO-LINK Ultra the diagnostic tool continues to enable top-notch service from light diesel to Class A heavy duty trucks.
The PRO-LINK delivers the broadest coverage ever available in a single handheld diagnostic tool including data for major systems like engines and transmissions and ABS brakes and instrument clusters and emissions and body control.
It's the ideal tool for heavy duty fleets and dealerships owner-operator repair shops municipality and mobile truck services.
And as you would expect with those features sales have been exceptional.
Also in the period for RS&amp;I the equipment division performed quite well.
High single-digit organic sales increases bolstered by an improved North American marketplace gains in Western Europe and innovative new products.
Once again Snap-on Value Creation was on display in the form of the new Snap-on Motorized Wheel Balancer ideal for shops of all sizes.
The new balancer comes equipped with a sonar sensor that eliminates manual measurements of rim width enabling faster balancing.
It also features multiple placement mode allowing users to flexibly match weight location to a variety of vehicle rims that are so much variety common today in the car market.
And it utilizes Snap-On's Virtual Plane Imaging technology providing unsurpassed accuracy to ensure an effective balance and a satisfied customer.
The new Snap-on authorized balancer: speed flexibility and accuracy.
It's received quite positive reviews and we anticipate strong sales as the rollout continues.
We're very excited about this product.
In fact we're excited about the entire breadth of the RS&amp;I offering.
And in November RS&amp;I presented its full product portfolio at the annual SEAMS show in Las Vegas.
The group's equipment business including Challenger Lifts and Pro-Cut brake lathes new acquisitions were featured along with our diagnostics; Mitchell 1 business solutions and equipment solutions product offering all on display in one booth under the banner "Snap-on Total Solution." Customer reaction was enthusiastic and our sales for the event were strong.
We believe the RS&amp;I group with state-of-the-art undercar equipment a strong product line of repair information solutions and award-winning diagnostics products is capturing an increased presence with shop owners and managers and the results confirm it.
Well that's our fourth quarter.
Opco organic sales rising 9.8% EPS of $1.97 in the quarter 23.1% higher than last year progress registered along all our runways for coherent growth and advancements down each of our runways for improvement but especially in customer connection and innovation and certainly rapid continuous improvement or RCI all of that helping to drive a 16.9% operating margin up 140 basis points.
It clearly was an encouraging quarter.
Now I'll turn the call over to Aldo.
Thanks Nick.
Our fourth quarter consolidated operating results are summarized on Slide 6.
Net sales of $857.4 million in the quarter increased $59.9 million or 7.5% from 2013 levels reflecting broad-based gains across all of our operating segments.
Organically sales increased 9.8% excluding $5.7 million of acquisition-related sales and $21.5 million of unfavorable foreign currency translation.
Consolidated gross profit of $411.3 million increased $32.8 million from 2013 levels.
The gross profit margin of 48% in the quarter improved 50 basis points primarily due to savings from RCI initiatives and benefits from higher sales partially offset by increased restructuring and other costs.
Operating expenses of $266.1 million increased $11.2 million primarily due to higher volume related and other expenses.
The operating expense margin of 31.1% improved 90 basis points mostly due to sales volume leverage.
We incurred $1.1 million of restructuring costs in the quarter.
There were no restructuring costs in the fourth quarter of last year.
As a result of these factors operating earnings before Financial Services of $145.2 million in the quarter increased $21.6 million or 17.5% compared to the prior year; and as a percentage of sales improved 140 basis points to 16.9%.
Operating earnings from Financial Services of $42.2 million on revenue of $59.4 million in the quarter compared to operating earnings of $33 million on revenue of $47.4 million last year.
The year-over-year increases in both operating earnings and revenue primarily reflect the continued growth of the Financial Services portfolio as well as revenue and earnings from an additional week of operations in 2014.
As you may know Snap-on operates on a fiscal calendar which results in an additional week to our fiscal full year and fourth quarter every 6 years.
As a result our 2014 fiscal year contained 53 weeks of operating results with the extra week relative to the prior year occurring in the fourth quarter.
While the impact of this additional week was not material to Snap-on's consolidated fourth quarter net sales or net earnings our Financial Services segment did earn an additional week of interest income on its financing portfolio.
At the consolidated level the net earnings benefit from the additional week of Financial Services' interest income was largely offset by a corresponding additional week of fixed expenses primarily personnel-related costs and interest expense.
Consolidated operating earnings of $187.4 million in the quarter increased $30.8 million or 19.7%.
And the operating margin of 20.4% improved 190 basis points from 18.5% a year ago.
Our fourth quarter effective income tax rate was 32.1% in both the fourth quarters of 2014 and 2013.
Finally net earnings in the quarter of $116.2 million or $1.97 per diluted share increased $21.7 million or $0.37 per share from 2013 levels representing a 23.1% increase in diluted earnings per share.
For the full year 2014 net earnings of $421.9 million or $7.14 per diluted share increased $71.6 million or $1.21 per share from 2013 levels representing a 20.4% increase in diluted earnings per share.
Now let's turn to our segment results.
Starting with the commercial and industrial or C&amp;I Group on Slide 7.
Sales of $298.2 million in the quarter were up 9.9% organically primarily reflecting double-digit gains in sales to customers in critical industries and in our Asia/Pacific operations as well as mid-single-digit sales increase in our European-based hand tools business.
Gross profit in the C&amp;I group totaled $113.4 million in the quarter.
Gross margin of 38% decreased 90 basis points from 2013 levels primarily due to a shift in sales activity that included higher volume sales to the military and increased sales in our Asia/Pacific operations as well as higher restructuring costs partially offset by savings from RCI initiatives.
Operating expenses of $72.9 million in the quarter decreased $0.3 million from 2013 levels.
The operating expense margin of 24.4% improved 140 basis points primarily due to the sales volume leverage including benefits from the sales shift just mentioned.
As a result of these factors fourth quarter operating earnings for the C&amp;I segment of $40.5 million increased $3.4 million or 9.2% from 2013 levels.
And the operating margin of 13.6% improved 50 basis points from 13.1% last year.
Turning now to Slide 8.
Fourth quarter sales in the Snap-on Tools Group of $387.5 million increased 11.8% organically reflecting a double-digit increase in the United States and a high single-digit gain internationally.
Gross profit of $166.4 million increased $20.2 million from 2013 levels.
And the gross margin of 42.9% increased 130 basis points primarily due to the benefits from higher sales and savings from RCI initiatives.
Operating expenses of $102.5 million in the quarter increased $7.3 million from 2013 levels primarily due to higher volume-related and other expenses.
The operating expense margin of 26.4% improved 70 basis points principally due to sales volume leverage.
As a result of these factors operating earnings of $63.9 million for the Snap-on Tools Group increased $12.9 million or 25.3%.
And the operating margin of 16.5% improved 200 basis points from 14.5% last year.
Turning to the Repair Systems and Information or RS&amp;I Group shown on Slide 9.
Sales of $282.8 million increased 6.9% from 2013 levels.
Excluding $5.7 million of acquisition-related sales and $5.5 million of unfavorable foreign currency translation organic sales were also up 6.9% reflecting high single-digit gains in both sales of undercar equipment and sales to OEM dealerships as well as a mid-single-digit increase in sales of diagnostic and repair information products to independent repair shop owners and managers.
Gross profit of $131.5 million in the quarter increased $9.5 million from 2013 levels.
Gross margin of 46.5% increased 40 basis points as savings from RCI and other cost reduction initiatives were partially offset by a shift in sales that included higher volumes of lower gross margin products including increased essential tool and facilitation sales to OEM dealerships.
The RS&amp;I Group also incurred higher restructuring costs in the quarter.
Operating expenses totaled $66.3 million in the quarter.
And the operating expense margin of 23.4% increased 30 basis points primarily reflecting operating expenses for the Pro-Cut acquisition.
Fourth quarter operating earnings of $65.2 million for the RS&amp;I Group increased $4.4 million or 7.2% from prior year levels.
And the operating margin of 23.1% increased 10 basis points from 23% last year.
Now turning to Slide 10.
In the fourth quarter earnings from Financial Services of $42.2 million and revenues of $59.4 million including contributions from the additional week of operations in fiscal 2014 compared with operating earnings of $33 million on revenue of $47.4 million last year.
The average yield on finance receivables of 17.6% compared with 17.4% last year.
And the average yield on contract receivables was 6 -- I'm sorry it's 9.5% in both periods.
Originations of $232.2 million in the quarter increased 17.5% from 2013 levels.
Moving to Slide 11.
Our year-end balance sheet includes approximately $1.4 billion of gross financing receivables including $1.2 billion from our U.S.
Snap-on credit operation.
Approximately 80% of our U.S.
financing portfolio relates to extended credit loans to technicians.
In 2014 our worldwide finance -- Financial Services portfolio grew $152.2 million.
As for finance portfolio losses and delinquency trends these continued to be in line with our expectations.
Now turning to Slide 12.
Cash provided by operations of $97.2 million in the quarter decreased $25.3 million from comparable 2013 levels as higher net earnings in 2014 were more than offset by net increases in operating assets and liabilities including the timing of estimated tax and other payments and $10 million of higher discretionary pension plan contributions.
Net cash used by investing activities of $46 million included $30.7 million to fund a net increase in finance receivables.
Capital expenditures of $17.3 million in the quarter compared with $19.9 million last year.
Full year capital expenditures totaled $80.6 million.
Turning to Slide 13.
Days sales outstanding for trade receivables of 61 days compared with 62 days at 2013 year-end.
Inventories increased $41.1 million from 2013 year-end levels primarily to support continued higher customer demand and new product introductions and from the addition of inventories related to Pro-Cut.
On a trailing 12-month basis inventory turns of 3.7 compared with 3.8 turns at 2013 year-end.
Our year-end cash position of $132.9 million decreased $84.7 million from 2013 year-end levels largely due to the March 2014 repayment of $100 million of debt at maturity.
The net decrease in cash also reflects year-to-date impacts of funding $746.2 million of new finance receivables dividend payments of $107.6 million $80.6 million for capital expenditures the repurchase of 680 000 shares for $79.3 million and the acquisition of Pro-Cut for $41.3 million.
These uses of cash were partially offset by $591.4 million of cash from collections of finance receivables and $397.9 million of cash from operations.
Our net debt-to-capital ratio was 26.3% at both 2014 and 2013 year ends.
In addition to our $132.9 million of cash and expected cash flow from operations we have more than $700 million in available credit facilities.
And our current short-term credit ratings allow us to access the commercial paper markets.
At 2014 year-end we had $37 million of commercial paper borrowings outstanding.
This concludes my remarks on our fourth quarter performance.
I'll now briefly review a few outlook items for 2015.
We anticipate that capital expenditures in 2015 will be in the range of $80 million to $90 million.
We also expect that our full year 2015 effective income tax rate will be at or below our full year 2014 rate of 32.1%.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Nick for his closing thoughts.
Nick? Thanks Aldo.
We believe our fourth quarter and full year results are clear evidence of the abundant opportunities that lie along our strategic runways for growth and of our continuing progress of taking advantage of those possibilities and in achieving amidst challenge and turbulence.
The vehicle repair market is both favorable economically and familiar operationally and we are advancing in that arena.
The van channel is being enhanced.
The Tools Group is continuing to rise sales up 11.8% operating margin increased by 200 basis points.
And we believe the franchise -- that franchisee confidence and capability are stronger than ever.
We're expanding repair shop owners and managers profitable growth in dealerships and independent shops Pro-Cut and Challenger integrated smoothly giving us more to sell an OI margin of 23.1% and volume growth of 6.9%.
We're reaching into new areas for new customers growing coherently.
The extension to critical industry is working.
Double-digit growth with those customers in the quarter 4 straight quarters of robust increases.
And we're building firm physical capabilities in emerging markets.
Activity in China and in India up nicely in the quarter.
Put that progress together with our with commitment to Snap-on Value Creation and you will see encouraging results.
You see organic sales increases of 9.8% and a margin gain of 140 basis points to 16.9%.
In fact you see our fourth quarter.
And as we move forward we know there are headwinds.
We know there are more challenges.
But we also believe that our team has unique opportunity rooted in growth and improvement and has the intent and the capability to continue our positive trend of strategic and financial progress ensuring that we will exit 2015 stronger than when we entered.
Before I turn the call over to the operator it's appropriate that I recognize our franchisees and associates an extraordinary group.
Once again I know many of you are listening.
Please know that this encouraging quarter is the result of your effort for your contributions to our performance for your support of our team and for your commitment to our future.
You have my congratulations and you have my thanks.
Now I'll turn the call over to Hannah for questions.
Hannah? [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Liam Burke with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Nick can you give us a little color on how much incremental growth you got from company-supplied vans like the Rock 'N Roll van to help supplement the van franchisee effort? Well -- yes sure.
Look the Rock 'N Roll vans as you know are sort of like a time shared event which add retail space on a time-sharing basis.
Each of the -- each technician they go around and they visit various technicians for 2 to 3 days.
We've grown them from I think 18 in the first quarter of 2012 up to around 59 in North America last year.
They're not growing anymore.
But suffice it to say that big-ticket items which tool storage is one of them was up ahead greater than the overall Tools Group of 11.8% in the quarter.
So they pace the -- they were among the pacing elements -- big-ticket items were among the pacing elements for our growth in the Tools Group.
And it's clear that the -- that those 59 in North America and I think it's 64 international -- in total because we have some in the U.K.
now and Australia have helped drive the way.
And of course that's together with our TechKnow vans which have increased the same way.
The TechKnow vans are now up I think to 31 which it started at 14.
So those are both helping grow this business.
And it has moved faster than at 11.8%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on new product introductions or innovation did you have a good year in terms of hit products and were they divided equally between industrial and automotive? I would say we had a good year yes.
I'm pretty positive about the year.
We had some really fine new products and the numbers were the like last year.
Compared to just what 2006 they're several times as I said many times that number.
And I would say that they are divided kind of not quite equally.
I'd say the Tools Group gets a little more of those because we have more people really in the workplaces for the automotive repair business and therefore those ideas are rolling back with greater frequency.
But we are getting a good representation from the industrial business from the critical industries.
And you know I can offer to you that we've advanced our critical industries not hit products but we're expanding that business.
For example we added in the year 996 new aviation products.
We added over 600 oil and gas products military products over 800 power generation.
So we're adding products.
They are not all the hit products.
I'm not saying that but we added new products to create excitement in that business.
The hit products are those that sell over 1 million and create the excitement.
We're getting those in industrial.
We're still today getting more out of the vehicle repair side of the business.
Still a very good year for that I'm very pleased.
And in fact when you look at these numbers it's hard for you to appreciate it but I believe very strongly that it's generated by the enthusiasm and the attention-getting that these great new products get when people in the vans or when our salesmen call on customers and say "Wow that's a new product.
I'd like to get it " and they add other products to it.
And we'll take our next question from David Leiker with Baird.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start on the organic growth in the Snap-on Tools Group.
You were running 6% or so the last -- the first 3 quarters of the fiscal year.
You jumped up to approaching 12% here in Q4 almost double the growth rate.
Anything in particular that's behind that? And any sense on how sustainable that kind of a growth rate is going forward? Yes I know -- I don't know.
I think -- we have been -- you and I have talked about this many times.
I mean the Tools Group numbers like you say 11.8% 6.0% 6.6% 6.0% 10.2% 9.5%.
In fact the Tools Group now -- the Tools Group has now grown greater -- 5% or greater in I think the number 18 of the last 19 quarters.
So they've shown some fairly strong performance.
And all I can say about it in general David -- what I can say first in general is that what's happening here is the effect -- the continually increasing effect of understanding how to help the franchisees be more effective which authored things like the vans the Rock 'N Roll cab and the TechKnow van.
And we're just getting better at bringing out new products and finding those sweet spots in the -- for the customer needs that excite the customers and get that stuff moving off the van.
That's what's happening here.
Our ability to make the franchisees more productive and effective and the experience that's building in our team to be able to wield this model which has always been I've said the model that fell from Saturn more effectively.
One of the world's great models those guys in the Tools Group are probably wielding it better than ever before.
In this quarter I think you might say we had a particularly great customer connection and innovation season like Liam just add that's one.
And two we had things like power tools and some great power tool products that came up.
I was in a shop the other day and in fact Monday -- Tuesday -- sorry Tuesday I was in a shop and the technician said "Boy I got this new CT8850 you know my cordless impact.
I used to use these pneumatics.
I used to be proud of my pneumatic.
Now I've turned my compressor off because this thing is so powerful I won't let it out of my hand." So that was a terrific endorsement of that.
He really had gone completely to that new product and that has driven some of our sales.
So you see that.
The other thing about the fourth quarter is we had a particularly great SFC great SFC.
And the tool -- again this is the experience of the Tools Group guys that are very positive about this.
They're very effective in doing this.
This is one of the things that I feel about this business if I can just say this.
I think we are on a trend of continual operating improvement.
I know there's a lot of discussion about currency.
In fact you can see the numbers there on -- you can see it in our numbers.
In the fourth quarter we got about $20 million worth of translation hit and when you see the K you'll see a couple of million dollars of profitability hit associated with it.
And you never know what the eventual numbers will be because you got a lot of variation in terms of what happens in the marketplace.
But we're exposed in places like -- our big exposures are places like the euro 9% of our sales in the euro and 8% in the pound and then another 5% in the Canada and so on.
And we have some drips and drabs around Australia and Japan.
But when you -- and the actual number depends on where those -- what activities are each of those markets.
So translation and transaction depends on the cocktail of that.
But one thing we know is that as we move forward the rates from the end of the year are moving up more unfavorable.
So we'll see headwinds from currency but we are confident.
We know that our operating position will keep improving despite the arithmetic associated with the currency.
So things like the Tools Group the extension of critical industries 4 straight quarters of high single digits or double digits those will continue to grow.
And we'll exit as I said in my comments better in 2015 than when we entered.
Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up on that.
If we look at these activities that you're doing with your dealers to improve their productivity finding ways to push more through the channel inherently that's somewhat of a barrier.
You are creating more and more of a barrier of entry.
How is your competition competing with your franchisees changing their business? Are they trying to figure it out? Are they copying what you're doing? What's happening down in the trenches there? Well we have some great guys in the competition.
We have some great companies Stanley and Danaher behind Matco and so on.
But at the garage level in the vans from each of our positions we see that our franchisees don't often mention the competitors.
They reference themselves versus where we have been or where we are going.
I just did a van ride like I said on Tuesday.
And my van driver never mentioned the competitors.
He only mentioned how we could get better or how satisfied he was with certain of our new products.
So I see this.
And I see it across our product line.
Our people are confident of our hand tools.
Our people are confident of our tool storage because they are beautiful pieces.
Our people are confident about our diagnostics and our software because they provide a better insight to repairing the car than ever before.
And you know what's happening in the marketplace now it used to be garages wanted diagnostics.
Well with the extension of all the computers on cars every technician needs to have a diagnostics to repair these days.
And so you can see this kind of confidence in our franchisees.
And yes they say "Well I'd rather have this or I need something else." But it's always with reference to themselves it's not much compared to their -- it's not really compared to their competition as much.
I hardly ever hear about that.
That's not to say they're not capable and capable people and aggressive people but when I go out I hear mostly about ourselves.
Our last question is from David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
You and your organization have built a tremendous compound earnings growth story here and it's-- it really shows.
So congrats on all the progress.
I wanted to ask just a couple of questions that are just kind of following up on the earlier questions.
And I start with the Tools Group.
And you made the observation that you aren't adding any more vans I guess on the Rock ‘N Roll Cab Express.
Just looking at the 17.5% origination growth in the finance portfolio suggests that the storage is still a big part of the Tools growth story and the margin 200 basis points probably is driven in part by that as well.
How do you keep the growth going if you've stopped opening new stores in this enterprise? And maybe talk to that for starters.
Well let me say a couple of things.
First just thanks for your compliments about compound earnings growth.
But actually I don't think it's that surprising.
This is a great business.
It's a great business that has a lot of opportunity and runway further.
So we are not so surprised by such things because it is a business that has so much untapped opportunity for both growth and improvement.
Let me come back to the idea of keeping it growing.
Yes it is a challenge.
But you know that we've grown -- the Tools Group has grown 11.8% 6% 6.6% 6.0% 10.2% 9.5% in the subsequent quarters same-store sales.
And then the other thing is we're getting better at bringing out new products.
We just launched another tool storage unit at the kickoffs David.
And you know what it is? It's a tool storage.
It's these tool storage big boxes you can envision them and they're gleaming in different colors.
They've got great features.
You can plug in your power tools and all this stuff and now we equip them with a downtown sound bar.
Now I don't know if you've ever been in a garage but a sound bar in a tool storage box sounds like a cool thing to me.
Everybody who sees them and hears them is going crazy.
So new product is a great -- are a great advantage so that helps it too.
And then the other thing is we just have to keep thinking of new ways.
The Rock 'N Roll Cab was an innovation by the -- brilliant innovation by the Tools Group guys to figure out that they could help the van -- virtually expand the space of the van which is one of the limitations.
They just have to keep coming up with ideas.
That doesn't mean that the Rock 'N Roll Cabs won't contribute more.
I mean they've been pretty stable for a fairly long time.
I want to say that the vans have been like year-over-year -- if you wanted to look at last year at this time North America had 56 vans now we have 59.
So they only moved up 3 and still it grew at 11.8% in total.
And tool storage and big ticket was above that.
So they figured out some way to do it without too much increase in sales.
Having said that they also -- we'll be tasking them to come up with new ideas to try to help this situation.
The final point is that when you look at the originations versus the Tools Group it's a little more complex.
You have the question of originations and it does -- it is driven by big-ticket items but it's also a little bit driven by the variation between our sales and the franchisees' sales of course.
The originations track a sale to a technician; our sales track a sale from us to the franchisee.
So there's a little bit of timing difference and it can muddy the water a little bit.
That's good detail.
I guess the second question I had was again following up on a previous question on competition and you talked about with respect to Stanley and Matco and the others.
I wonder if you could just talk about how much competition you're feeling and maybe particularly within the diagnostics business.
But how much competition you're feeling from the automotive retailers? And I guess the question really is as the category...
What do you mean? What do you mean automotive retailers? Can you define it for me? Research Division</strong> Yes the AutoZone Pep Boys O'Reilly those guys.
I guess my question really is as that diagnostics category evolves and the technologies that represent kind of the foundation of that category become less expensive how do you respond to protect your great business from price competition increasing availability? I mean is it innovation? Is it warranties? Is it credit? Is it support and service? How do you go about...
I'll tell you what I tell you what all of the above I think.
Remember first -- I think first that we start with a great product enabled by an extraordinary base of information with I think better insight on repair than anybody else.
We have a product that will tell you okay if you have a make and model and powertrain of a car and it's a certain model what the typical repair is on that model based on big data.
It's the only one available.
And we have an understanding.
A lot of the competition comes at the lower end with code readers and so on a little bit less sophisticated.
Technicians are looking for more levels of sophistication.
They want to read what the car says.
They want to be able to put the car through functional tests through its paces.
They want to be able to reprogram it.
They want to be able to see what the OEM says as a standard fix.
And then they want the whisper tips and the tips that come out of the big data.
We have all of that.
Almost no one else does.
So our product keeps evolving and getting stronger in that regard.
And if anything the requirements for this gets bigger because it used to be -- the computer content on cars are getting more and more.
This is one of the reasons why nobody can repair cars anymore because they're so complicated.
And even in garages you need -- what used to be a situation where you needed one big unit to handle everybody and you could pass it around well you can't be working on a car today in many cases without these things.
So every technician wants one.
And so you have that.
And then finally finally we have our franchisee armed with the TechKnow vans up close and personal with the technician to help him through the product tell him what he needs to know how to use it and find out what his particular problems are.
We have customer connection and customer delivery like no one else has.
And so that's why we don't feel so much heat from those other guys.
We think this is a robust market that's going to keep growing.
We think it's only going to get more demand in this area.
And we think we have significant advantages in data in hardware and in software.
And our software business -- our hardware business was strong.
We just had a great launch.
And our software business was up more than the hardware business in the quarter.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Ms.
Kratcoski I'll turn the conference back over to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks Hannah and to everyone we appreciate you joining us today.
A replay of the call will be available on our website shortly.
And as always we thank you for your interest in Snap-on.
Have a good day.
Bye.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Please standby we are about to begin.
Good day.
And welcome to the Snap-on Incorporated 2015 First Quarter Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Leslie Kratcoski Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Jamie and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to review Snap-on's first quarter results which are detailed in our press release issued earlier this morning.
We have on the call today Nick Pinchuk Snap-on's Chief Executive Officer; and Aldo Pagliari Snap-on's Chief Financial Officer.
Nick will kick off our call this morning with his perspective on our performance.
Aldo will then provide a more detailed review of our financial results.
After Nick provides some closing thoughts we'll take your questions.
As usual we've provided slides to supplement our discussion.
You can find a copy of these slides on our website next to the Audio icon for this call.
These slides will be archived on our website along with the transcript.
Any statements made during this call relative to management's expectations estimates or beliefs or otherwise state -- management's or the company's outlook plans or projections are forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those made in such statements.
Additional information and the factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are contained in our SEC filings.
With that said I'd now like to turn the call over to Nick Pinchuk.
Nick? Thanks Leslie.
Good morning everyone.
As usual I'll start with the highlights of our first quarter and along the way I will give you perspective on our results our markets and on the progress we've made.
Then Aldo will move into a more detailed review of the financials.
I believe that our first quarter once again provide a strong evidence of Snap-on advancing along our runways for both growth and for improvement.
Our EPS in the quarter was a $1.87 up from a $1.62 last year that rise reflects an opco operating margin of 16.7% an increase of 120 basis points.
Combining those opco gains with earnings of $40.3 million from Financial Services brought Snap-on consolidated operating margins to 20.1% compared to the 18.6% registered last year.
Our operating improvement in the quarter came on organic sales growth of 9.9%.
Overall sales in the quarter were $827.8 million a rise of 5.1% from the prior year and those gains include a significant unfavorable foreign currency translation of $38.5 million or 540 basis points.
Now currencies headwind it was last year it’s likely to continue throughout the year and if the present rates hold it will rise somewhat going forward.
But we are very encouraged by organic growth in both volume and profitability and we believe both represent a continuation of our strengthening position and capability and of the generally favorable business environment for each of our operating groups.
For us the quarters result a testimony to the abundant opportunity along our runways for growth and of our ability to take advantage as conditions unfold.
Like in past quarters the environment surrounding our Automotive Repair related businesses the Tools Group and RS&amp;I Group was generally positive.
The changing technologies across the fleet continue to drive the need for new problem-solving products making those markets robust.
In that regard the Tools Group has enhanced our franchise network with van productivity and with innovative marketing taking clear advantage of the favorability to sell more to existing customers and to reach new customers all on its way to strong growth.
At the same time RS&amp;I is also growing capitalizing on those positives and utilizing its broader product line to expand repair shop owners and managers.
Now C&amp;I serving customers in critical industries and the most international of our groups does face more variations in the market.
Its European operations are confronted with large differences across the business from the relatively calm U.K.
to the turbulence in the Middle East to the challenges of Russia to the political uncertainties of newly elected governments in places like India and Indonesia.
But it’s in past quarters the opportunities outweigh those headwinds and when combined with our growing range of customer driven products and with our expanding capabilities aimed specifically at the needs of industries and customers C&amp;I again showed gains extending in critical industries and building emerging markets.
Besides advancements on our runways for growth we also made progress on our runways for improvement with Snap-on value creation and safety quality customer connection innovation and rapid continuous improvement our RCI as we call it.
RCI has become a part of the fabric a daily activity at Snap-on.
You can see it in the results.
OI margin is up and you can see it advance like our annual RCI conference held recently just down the road in Illinois nearly 400 people almost 40 best practice teams came together to share ides buy for awards and celebrate their progress bringing the learning and enthusiasm back home to the local teams.
You can’t help but walk away from these events encouraged and convinced that there's great potential for further improvement.
Well that’s the environment.
Of course as it will always.
There are headwinds.
Market-to-market variations in difficult macros but despite the challenges our operations moved significantly along each of our runways for both growth and improvement and you could see it throughout the numbers.
Now let's move to the segments in the C&amp;I Group organic sales were up 9.8% with contributions coming from our European U.S.
and Asian operations.
From an earnings perspective C&amp;I operating income of $44 million increased $4.9 million or 12.5% and that represents our margin rate for C&amp;I of 14.8% an expansion of 130 basis points.
SNA Europe again recorded volume growth.
This time similar to that achieved by RCI -- by C&amp;I overall brought gains in many of our markets led by selling strength and by products that generate real enthusiasm.
But SNA Europe improvement in the quarter goes beyond sales growth and far those gains made from past restructuring.
Our initiative to improve productivity with focus on both costs and product development are clearly evident in the operations achievements and you can see it again this quarter.
Organic sales were up but profits profits were up more.
Illustrating the power of RCI even in the European environment that remains challenged.
Industrial division was also part of the C&amp;I rise.
It grew in a number of critical industries areas like power generation mining railroads and the military as everybody knows the military sector remains uncertain.
But having said that we have made the most of the opportunities available this time the opening arose with the changing roles of various units as the troops are redeployed back to the allied states.
Actually that’s a major theme for our first quarter making the most of the opportunities as they arise mid to turbulence.
Another big factor and again in critical industry were expanded product offerings targeted at practical workplace needs.
One new example in the recent quarter was the with the PDX series of air drills ideal for the aviation industry made in our Murphy North Carolina plant these pneumatic drills are using application ranging from light assembly to metalwork perfect for drilling ferrous and nonferrous metal plastics and composite materials the kind of versatility that’s so helpful in aviation application.
And the feeterrable trigger provides outstanding control and unparallel run out performance offering great accuracy.
Beside utility of the tool the low sound low vibration soft grip and aluminum housing offers maximum comfort with reduced operator fatigue.
Another attractive feature in the workplace to ease the professional’s task and enable more consistency throughout the day.
These drills are especially usual.
One performing important repair work on damaged aircraft still an application that must be critical in nature.
We believe we have another industry winner the PDX drill a Superior Aviation tool consistent with Snap-on name.
Our industrial division also has driven growth by leveraging the Snap-on RCI experience.
Participating in several customer-sponsored lean events right on customer’s side side-by-side with the customer’s local team.
Snap-on people sharing their experiences and insight of rapid continuous improving helping customers solve their problems but all the -- problem -- but all the while gaining deeper practical understanding of the crucial task in critical industries creating opportunities to tailor our products to the work and to drive more sales.
We say we help professionals in solving the critical RCI is becoming a tool to do just that.
Our Asia-Pacific division also posted higher activity registering progress building the physicals and limiting the impact of the economic difficulties in Japan.
I was just there attending our annual reseller’s conference this year within C&amp;I in China bringing together enthusiastic Snap-on associates and resellers from all across the region.
New Asian-ized products were introduced.
Training seminars were conducted and the group's enthusiasm confirmed our extended opportunities in Asia-Pacific.
That’s C&amp;I.
Now on with the Tools Group.
Organic sales up 12.9% solid grow in all geographies.
The groups operating earnings of $59.8 million represented a margin rate of 15.8% up 150 basis points for the Tools Group.
The results continue to speak for themselves.
They clearly demonstrate ongoing progress along one of our runways for coherent growth enhancing the franchise channel and there is abundant evidence of the strength of positive trajectory of that channel.
It is stated clearly in our franchisee metrics financial and physical and poor indicators of network health likes sales per band and franchisee turnover.
We monitor them closely and they are favorable across the board.
In our direct interactions with the franchisees the meetings like 2015 kickoffs held all over the network earlier in the year.
They were marked by -- I can tell you they were marked by enthusiasm and optimism by commitment and energy gatherings of entrepreneurs and professionals confident in reaching higher.
Our Snap-on value creation process the process is also critical components of the Tools Group progress.
Innovative new products many of these launched from the customer connections we observed on a daily basis.
Those solutions those products are significant players in driving the group’s upward trajectory.
An example is the KRL1163 Tool Storage Cab with the power tool organizer system based on customer connections made on our Rock N Roll Express bands.
This model transforms the bottom drawer of the box into a customized secure easy to access storage system for frequently used power tools.
It’s a feature that can make technicians work easier.
Visitors to our Rock N Roll Cab highlighted the need our design teams made it a reality customer connection to innovation to winning product.
Speaking of tool storage this summer marks our 95th year in business.
We’ve just launched a special set of tool storage box highlighting our long tradition of excellence with unique anniversary panel and custom red trim etched with the years 1920 and 2015.
The new units also offer the Snap-on echo remote locking system another customer connection driven option that we’re confident will be quite popular.
These special anniversary boxes are already gathering -- generating considerable excitement on the advance and in the shops.
Lots of excitement around these blocks.
And we believe there will be strong sellers clear testimony on the strength of the Snap-on brand and on the bond between Snap-on and professionals.
More innovation can be seen on product like the new Snap-on half inch drive 3 six-inch breaker bar the SHN-36 originally developed from customer connections of the heavy duty mechanics desiring more -- a longer handle for increased leverage.
The addition of a soft grip provides added control on comfort and that’s a premium when you're removing tires or adjusting tracks on construction and agricultural equipment a loosening head bolts on large engine a much improved product that will make work easier innovation even on the most established product line.
Finally I want to mention the Tools Group efforts with RCI.
Progress I think it’s clearly evident in the financials but to double down on a testimony I spoke before of our annual RCI conference.
While a team from Tools was awarded the grand champion at this year's event.
The Tools Group rework center for their work on substantially reducing turnaround time highlighting that at Snap-on.
The shop floor has no monopoly on RCI.
And illustrating that even an experienced organization like the Tools Group potential RCI opportunities abound up and down throughout and across the business.
And we can’t talk about the Tools Group without speaking of its strategic partner about our financial services organization.
With each quarters Snap-on Credit becomes more attuned just what programs can best aid our franchisees.
And the first quarter demonstrated that progress clearly portfolio growth profits up over 70% and all the while holding delinquencies to a relatively low level.
Snap-on Credit a greatest historic tools business and you can see that relationship play out in the positive trend.
Now let’s move to RS&amp;I.
The first quarter organic sales for RS&amp;I rose 6.3% broad gains with both OEM dealerships and with independent shops.
Operating earnings of $63.9 million were up $5.8 million.
The operating margin of 23.5% rose 140 basis points.
I’ve spoken often in the past about our line of successful handheld diagnostic units and they continue to drive growth and excitement in the independent repair space.
And the first quarter was no exception with our VERUS PRO and MODI’s ultra unit being recognized by undercar digest in this year’s list of top 10 tools continuing our strength of award-winning products with that publication.
Undercar digest bases its selection on the votes of actual users.
The award confirms that our handheld diagnostics resonate strongly with professionals.
And it demonstrates the power of customer connection and innovation in generating unique productivity solutions.
That’s what these stools are about.
The VERUS PRO and MODI’s Ultra they are also key components of our next generation advanced diagnostic work stations launched in February.
These new work stations include handheld diagnostic unit in docking station a flat screen monitor and accustomed Snap-on tool box.
They provide comprehensive diagnostic support to fix cars accurately and quickly and they go a long way in reinforcing the shops images having strong professional capability in the electronics arena a feature we believe is of significant value to many independent garages as they strive to build customer confidence in this environment of rising vehicle technology.
With more than 800 workstation sold since the launch this is another one of our hit products with over $1 million in first year sales.
And it’s another add to our growing track record of innovation success and it’s driving sales progress.
Our equipment division also registered gains in the quarter with several national account in part exceeding by highlighting our expanding product bundle including challenger lifts Pro-Cut on-car brake lathes as well as the new undercar equipment and broad diagnostic offerings.
Snap-on equipment increased productivity for the automotive repair shop networks and advantage rooted in our expanded and enhanced line of products.
Finally we continue to see further progress with our Nexiq heavy-duty and fleet information systems as well as progress with the improved functionality and comprehensive content contained in Mitchell1’s ProDemand and SureTrack products.
All are differentiating offerings that lead to more business.
Armed with those products we achieved a number of multi-location customer wins in the quarter displacing competitors and gaining traction across the marketplace.
Snap-on innovates in the information products unique database solution effective navigation systems with speed to repair all emphasizing our growing strength in vehicle information and they helped drive RS&amp;I sales again this quarter.
So that’s the highlights.
Significant progress was made in the quarter.
Organic sales rise 9.9% along all our runways for coherent growth.
EPS of a $1.87 up 15.4%.
Gains achieved through our Snap-on value creation processes RCI and customer connections especially shinning through strengthening our business and driving to a 16.7% opco operating margin up 120 basis points.
It was an encouraging quarter.
Now I will turn the call over to Aldo.
Thanks Nick.
Our first quarter consolidated operating results are summarized on slide 6.
Net sales of $827.8 million in the quarter were up 9.9% organically reflecting broad-based growth across all of our operating segments.
On a reported basis net sales including $38.5 million of unfavorable foreign currency translation increased $40.3 million or 5.1% from 2014 levels.
As you know Snap-on has significant international operations and is subject to foreign currency translation fluctuations.
Largely due to the recent strengthening of the U.S.
dollar foreign currency movements adversely impacted our year-over-year sales comparisons by approximately 540 basis points.
Consolidated gross profit of $410.1 million increased $31.4 million from 2014 levels.
The gross margin of 49.5% in the quarter improved 140 basis points primarily due to benefits from higher sales lower restructuring costs and savings from RCI initiatives.
Operating expenses of $272.2 million increased $15.2 million largely due to higher volume related and other expenses partially offset by savings from RCI initiatives.
The operating expense margin of 32.8% increased 20 basis points from 2014 levels.
No restructuring costs were incurred in the first three months of 2015.
Last year we incurred $2 million dollars of restructuring costs.
Pension expense in the quarter was approximately $2 million higher as compared to the prior year reflecting updated pension plan assumptions for 2015 which include the effects of lower discount rates as well as increased life expectancies.
As a result of these factors operating earnings before Financial Services of $137.9 million in the quarter including $6.4 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects increased $16.2 million from prior year levels and as a percentage of sales improved 120 basis points to 16.7%.
Financial Services revenue of $57.4 million in the quarter increased 14.3% from 2014 levels while operating earnings of $40.3 million increased 17.2%.
The increases in both revenue and operating earnings primarily reflect the continued growth of the Financial Services portfolio.
Consolidated operating earnings of $178.2 million in the quarter including $6.9 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects increased $22.1 million or 14.2%.
And the operating margin of 20.1% improved 150 basis points from 18.6% the year ago.
Our first quarter effective income tax rate of 32% compared with 31.6% last year.
Finally net earnings of $110.5 million or a $1.87 per diluted share increased $14.6 million or $0.25 per share representing a 15.4% increase in diluted earnings per share.
Now let’s turn to our segment results starting with the Commercial &amp; Industrial or C&amp;I Group on slide seven.
Sales of $297.5 million in the quarter were up 9.8% organically primarily reflecting similar sales strength both in critical industries and in our European-based hand tools business.
Gross profit in the C&amp;I group totaled $116.5 million in the quarter and a gross margin of 39.2% improved 40 basis points from 2014 levels largely due to savings from RCI initiatives primarily in Europe.
Operating expenses of $72.5 million in the quarter decreased $1.1 million and the operating expense margin of 24.4% improved 90 basis points largely due to sales volume leverage.
As a result of these factors operating earnings for C&amp;I segment of $44 million including $1.3 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects increased $4.9 million from 2014 levels and the operating margin of 14.8% improved 130 basis points.
Turning now to slide eight.
First quarter sales in the Snap-on Tools Group of $378.2 million increased 12.9% organically reflecting comparable sales gains in both the company's U.S.
and international franchise operations.
Gross profit of a $166.3 million increased $18.3 million from 2014 levels and the gross margin of 44% improved 90 basis points primarily due to benefits from higher sales.
Operating expenses of $106.5 million increased $7.7 million from 2014 levels mostly due to higher volume related expenses.
The operating expense margin of 28.2% improved 60 basis points principally due to sales volume leverage.
As a result of these factors operating earnings for the Snap-on Tools Group of $59.8 million including $3 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects increased $10.6 million and the operating margin of 15.8% improved 150 basis points.
Turning to the Repair Systems &amp; Information or RS&amp;I Group showed on slide nine.
Sales of $272.3 million in the quarter increased 6.3% organically from 2014 levels.
The organic sales increase primarily reflects a high single-digit gain and sales of undercar equipment as well as mid-single-digit gains in both sales to OEM dealerships and the sales of diagnostic and repair information products to independent repair shop owners and managers.
Gross profit of $127.3 million increased $9.3 million over 2014 levels and gross margin of 46.8% improved 190 basis points principally due to savings from RCI and other cost reduction initiatives and $2 million of lower restructuring costs.
Operating expenses totaled $63.4 million in the quarter and operating expense margin of 23.3% increased 50 basis points largely due to operating expenses of Pro-Cut which was acquired in May of last year.
First quarter operating earnings for the RS&amp;I group of $63.9 million including $2.1 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects increased $5.8 million or 10% from prior year levels.
And the operating margin of 23.5% improved 140 basis points.
Now turning to slide 10.
In the first quarter operating earnings from Financial Services of $40.3 million on revenue of $57.4 million compared with operating earnings of $34.4 million on revenue of $50.2 million last year.
The average yield on finance receivables of 17.7% in the quarter compared with 17.5% last year.
And the average yield on contract receivables was 9.5% in both periods.
Originations of $230.7 million increased 14.2% from 2014 levels.
Moving to slide 11.
As of quarter-end our balance sheet includes approximately $1.4 billion of gross financing receivables including $1.2 billion from our U.S.
Snap-on credit operation.
Approximately 80% of our U.S.
financing portfolio relates to extended credit loans to technicians.
During the quarter our worldwide finance portfolio grew approximately $23 million.
As for finance portfolio losses and delinquency trends these continued to be in line with our expectations.
Now turning to slide 12.
Cash provided by operations of $78.1 million in the quarter decreased $10.2 million from comparable 2014 levels as higher net earnings in 2015 were more than offset by net increases in operating assets and liabilities largely as a result of $15 million discretionary domestic pension plan contribution as well as higher tax related payments in the current year.
Net cash used by investing activities of $59.5 million included $38.6 million to fund a net increase in finance receivables.
Capital expenditures of $18.1 million in the quarter were comparable to the prior year.
Turning to slide 13.
Days sales outstanding for trade receivables of 60 days compared with 61 days at 2014 year-end.
Inventories increased $6.8 million from 2014 year-end levels primarily to support continued higher customer demand and new product introductions.
On a trailing 12-month basis inventory turns of 3.6 compared with 3.7 turns at 2014 year-end.
Our quarter-end cash position of $114.4 million decreased $18.5 million from 2014 year-end levels.
The net decrease includes the impact of funding $198.8 million of new finance receivables the repurchase of 340 000 shares for $49.7 million dividend payments of $30.9 million and capital expenditures of $18.1 million.
These cash decreases were partially offset by $160.2 million of cash from collections of finance receivables $78.1 million of cash generated from operations and $22.8 million of cash from a net increase in short-term borrowings.
Our net debt-to-cap ratio of 27.6% compared with 26.3% at 2014 year-end.
In addition to our $114 million of cash and expected cash flow from operations we have more than $700 million in available credit facilities.
And our current short-term credit ratings allow us to access commercial paper markets.
At first quarter-end we had $52.5 million of commercial paper borrowings outstanding.
This concludes my remarks on our first quarter performance.
Now I will turn the call over to Nick for his closing thoughts.
Nick? Thanks Aldo.
As our first quarter similar to our other quarters growth and improvement EPS of $1.87 up 15.4%.
Once again there were headwinds varying economies fluctuating currencies and political unrest but we overcame by finding and making the most of the opportunities.
We made significant progress along our runways for growth driven by new products and new customers enhance the band channel.
Tools Group organic sales up 12.9%.
And we believe the network has never been stronger expand with repair shop owners and managers RS&amp;I organic sales up 6.3%.
OEM dealerships and independent shops capturing new customers with the growing product bundle extend the critical industries and build in emerging markets.
C&amp;I organics sales up 9.8% SNA Europe progressing against the economic tied our critical industry team building our understanding of those critical workplaces launching new products aimed at those tasks and gaining position.
Once again again this quarter we clearly saw the effects of Snap-on value creation advancing down our runway for improvement.
OI margin improvements are more than a 100 basis point in every group and an overall opco margin of 16.7% an increase of 120 basis points.
It was an encouraging quarter.
We believe it serves as more testimony great testimony that our business models have the strength our runways offer the opportunity and our teams have the capability to continue to trend positive progress as we move forward even amid headwind.
Before I turn the call over to the operator it’s appropriate that I mention our franchisees and associates.
I know many of you are listening today.
The encouraging performance of the first quarter and the positive trends are continuing due to your contribution and commitment.
For the result you’ve authored you have my congratulations and for your dedication and support to our team have my thanks.
Now I will turn the call over to the operator.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Tom Hayes with Northcoast Research.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Good morning Tom.
Just wondering specifically on the C&amp;I Group great organic growth.
I was just wondering if there are any industries that maybe outperformed your expectations.
And then correlated to that just wondering about your exposure maybe to oil and gas market as they kind of have some challenges right now? Yes.
Look I expect good news in every market every quarter I think because we are not -- thing is we are in early days in penetrating critical industry.
It’s an aspect of coherent growth that what we’re doing there is duplicating what we have done for automotive repair technicians all these years.
We are doing it for other people and other industries you know observing work and making it easier with just the right tools whether it’s software or hardware.
And so an element of that is learning about the industry.
So it’s early days.
Now we have very industries in there aviation the military oil and gas power generation mining.
One of the advantages of this is we don’t really have much [indiscernible] in the way of share in these businesses.
So therefore each quarter rise and falls not so much on the effect of the industry just on our own performance.
So we have lumpiness from section to section or from industry to industry.
In this particular quarter we actually saw fine performance in places like I said in my power generation mining railroad the military.
The military was up this time because we were able to see opportunities.
Aviation is a big business in that area.
And oil and gas actually was up even slightly in this quarter.
So we saw the usual lumpiness from operation to operation but the critical industry business really is the driver behind C&amp;I and you see the C&amp;I growth across those segments.
So I didn’t see any particular surprises.
I guess if you are looking at our business you might say ghee they grew in oil and gas even though the market was weak.
My view was we don’t have that biggest share in oil and gas.
Therefore we can grow against weak markets.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
Just one kind of follow-up question.
I was just wondering on the -- how much share repurchase authorization you still have? We’re having about $215 million.
Okay.
Thank you for the questions.
Sure.
We will take our next question from Liam Burke with Wunderlich.
Thank you.
Good morning Nick.
Good morning Liam.
How are you doing? I am fine.
Thanks.
The organic growth of the Snap-on Tool segment is pretty strong closer to the high-single digits.
A lot higher than more of a mid-single digit expectation what's driving that incremental growth? Well I think what’s driving it is is that the Tools Group team is understanding how to enable the franchisees that we have in various places.
We have 4 800 worldwide.
We have 3 478 I think in the United States are van.
And they are learning quarter-by-quarter how to do it better.
And that’s allowing to sell more to same customers and reach other customers which they had on their routes but they hadn’t been calling on.
So the effects of these I think maybe threefold.
One effect is I think we’ve talked about it many times.
I think they’re very cleverly breaking through the natural boundaries of that model by adding space with a Rock N' Roll Cabs and you can see it in the progression of the tool storage and breaking through the time by adding a help with things like the TechKnow vans.
Now I think we have 66 67 of Rock N' Roll -- 66 Rock N' Roll vans throughout the world now and we have now up to 35 TechKnow vans that’s about four since last quarter.
And so you can see breaking that natural boundary is helping.
Secondly Boy we’re using as much as possible.
We using as much as possible our customer connection.
We spent a lot of time in the shops and we’re organizing that process and getting that information back into the innovation process and rolling out new products like that 36-Inch Breaker Bar.
People might look at that and say what’s that? It’s just a long bar.
But the idea was -- it wasn’t really available in the marketplace and the ones that were available aren’t as comfortable.
Innovation doesn’t have to be earth shattering.
It just has to make work easier in this space and the Tools Group is understanding how to do that.
And then thirdly they’re looking at the franchisee and saying we know your time is valuable.
We’re going to make it better.
We’re going to drive RCI into the vans and that’s all resulting in this kind of thing.
Their numbers were up 12.8% in the quarter 12.9% in the quarter 11.8% the quarter before that 6% the quarter before that 6.6% the quarter before that and 6% before that.
In fact 19 of the last 20 quarters they’ve been 6% or above.
And that’s -- what’s driving it all is tuning that business.
It’s kind of a -- if you step back and you look at the auto repair you would say it’s going to go better than GDP.
4% to 6% is what we say.
But if you have capability that resonates with those franchisees like they figured out you would see these kinds of numbers.
And you touched on RCI across all businesses.
They were providing incremental profitability along with volume increases.
Can you push RCI in a similar fashion to the van channel? Sure.
That’s what we’re doing.
We’re putting RCI into the vans drivers.
Now things like -- I think I’ve mentioned this before on the corporate things like when you repair a ratchet repairing a ratchet was taking 15 minutes every ratchet.
Sometimes I was on vans where people brought on four ratchets to be repaired at one stop that would have killed the route that day.
But we have tools kind of just like a factory.
We are laying it out like a factory like our van drivers can repair within three or four minutes now and number of things like that so taking RCI looking at the van doing value stream mapping on the van and reducing the time.
Adding to their selling time is part of the process which is allowing them to reach out to more customers.
That’s exactly what we’ve been doing.
Thanks for that question.
Thanks Nick.
Okay.
Our next question comes from David Leiker with Baird.
Hi.
Good morning.
This is Joe Vruwink for David.
Hi Joe.
Hey Joe.
Maybe staying with the Tools Group for a second any products in the catalogue that’s become kind of logical extensions of this recent company-owned van strategy? I should say….
I don’t feel so.
I think -- not any particular product.
I don't think -- I'm sure I could go through launching of new products and find those that came from a company-owned store driver but only around customer connection.
We have the van driver itself is the guy or an employee goes out there and he reports back as part and he gives us leads for new tool as part of the company-owned store and that flows back.
But we don't really differentiate between a lead from a company-owned store and a franchisees.
But in my remarks you might have heard the whole idea of the power tool draw organizer at the bottom -- at the tool storage box.
That came from the Rock 'N Roll Cab and their company stores.
They are not selling but their company stores are rolling there.
People got on those Rock 'N Roll Cabs and they start talking about boy wouldn’t it be good if we had a power tool organizer at the bottom in one of these drawers.
We got that idea.
We gave it to the engineers they put it in place and we’re rolling out this new product and it’s looking to be a good seller.
So that’s an example.
I guess the only thing is if you have the company owned stores they just add the flow of ideas back from the field the customer connection that comes back from the field.
Yeah.
So I guess my question was more oriented towards the Rock 'N Roll Cab and the TechKnow van put really a spotlight on particular things.
Is there some extension of that strategy that you can keep rolling out across the Tools Group? Well we only have 35 TechKnow vans now.
We actually added a couple Rock 'N Roll Cabs in the last quarter so that’s growing much more slowly.
But we added four TechKnow vans so they may continue to grow some.
Whether we add another extension we may have some ideas but I don't think I'm going to pre-announce them on the call here.
I think that’s the magic and the magicians are trying to find out more techniques and activities or programs that would expand the power of the franchisee.
See I think one of the things Joe I just want to point out.
Part of the -- really what the Tools Group has done is they figured out that these vans these franchisee are a great resource they are better then anybody else.
And they figured out how to help them be more powerful and amplify that power of that rolling retail space and that really capable and committed entrepreneur that's driving it.
And we’re going to do more of that but I’m not about to announce any more of that.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then switching gears over to the profitability and RS&amp;I this quarter.
You call out a few product areas that I would normally think are a bit lower margin within that segment yet the margins improved year-over-year.
Has RCI kind of neutralized thinking about that business in terms of software being sold or equipment being sold from an EBIT margin standpoint? As I said many times in these calls our RS&amp;I is the hardest to characterize from a margin perspective.
Yes we had good growth in things like equipments which tends to be lower margin.
But you know we had a good quarter in software that offset it.
Our software is rolling.
When I go out and talk to people they love our diagnostics.
In many cases they’re solving problems three or four times faster than anybody else -- three to four times faster than anybody else and the software is up.
So that’s good stuff.
Our Mitchell1 Information business and our Diagnostics and Independent Garages are pretty robust.
And okay equipments growing but those two things are relatively imbalanced.
So I don't think we saw a lot of mix in those numbers except for maybe the acquisition might have been there a little.
Now the story of 140 basis points in I think its 140 basis points in RS&amp;I is we had about 50 and 60 of RCI and we had – I think we had 70 or 80 of restructuring because last year we had a big restructuring dial up in there.
So that’s how you can kind of way you look at that.
But still a pretty big dial up of RCI plus you don’t want to no mistake about this even though the equipment the lower margin business are growing so as the software.
Okay.
Great.
I’ll leave it there.
Thank you.
Okay.
Our next question comes from Gary Prestopino with Barrington Research.
Good morning everybody.
Hi Garry.
Hi Garry.
Good.
All right.
Nick it’s the inevitable question on margins and just looking at the gross margin I think that gross margin you reported in Q1 was probably the highest that it’s been for quite some time? And I was just wondering if there were something in there that got it about 49% or is -- one time deal or are we at a new kind of sustainable level here so if you could directly you could talk about that? Yeah.
Look I don’t -- we don’t spend a lot of time agonizing over the difference between gross margin and OE I kind of test the operations to drive their operating income and I tend to focus on that much more.
And what we said is is that we believe that we have both run ways for growth and improvement that accrues operating income and from quarter-to-quarter they accrue those two things accrue in different proportion between gross margin and operating expense.
So I wouldn’t call the gross margin necessarily breakthrough but there’s nothing special in there this quarter.
So there is nothing really -- there’s no real -- I don’t think there’s any real onetime event or anything like that.
Really I mean you saw you saw our currency numbers in the quarter I think you our sales were -- what was it 38.5% in currency and about 6.9% in OI and we are -- we have currency headwinds one of the current rate stays the same those will rise.
But on the other hand we believe that that's sort of arithmetic well we are so enthusiastic about our operating opportunities and you can see it in this quarter the operating opportunities worked out.
Currencies are going to go up and down but the operating gains are going to stay with us forever and we view the 16.7% as being part of that.
Okay.
That's fair.
And then Europe I’ve been reading that new car registrations are up? It seems that Europe starting to get some traction? And I think you said your European hand tools business topline was up commensurate with C&amp;I? So -- the cadence has been that you’ve moved on a quarterly basis over the last couple of quarters from low single-digit to mid single-digit to high single-digit growth in the… It hasn’t been that -- I don’t think it’s been that thinking about it back here I have to go back and look it.
But I don’t think it’s been that sort of straight lines but if you looked that it over say like eight quarters or something like that you probably see some kind of movement.
I think what happens this order is basically some of our activities are paying off associated with new product development.
We do have some new products that are exciting the customers you can create enthusiasm even in what I consider to be a relatively dead market in Europe.
New car sales usually doesn’t help us that much except for the fact that except for the broader fact that new car sales probably accompanying a more positive economy.
It is true though that we made -- I think encouraging gains in selling in Europe.
We -- France and Germany which had been a drag in the last couple of quarters.
In fact they were down in the last couple of quarters they were up this quarter and we continued with the Nordic countries and we had some business in Turkey of course Eastern Europe was week so and Spain was up off of a relatively low base.
So we kind of saw -- we kind of saw the same progress in Europe that we’ve seen in other quarters except we started making progress in France and Germany.
Eastern Europe is kind of dead right now and Russia is difficult so on.
So that’s kind of -- so I guess you could be entitled for the idea Europe got a somewhat better.
But profits were even better very strong performance because of the effects of RCI.
That's great news.
And then lastly as I just look at this the reported revenues and the unfavourable currency translation if I add back the impact of currency translation and then say you had about 25% of your sales are based internationally.
Is that correct? A little more than that.
I think it’s -- let me see I think it’s about what is it like 35% yes 35% is international.
Okay.
Because I was getting -- I was getting a currency hit of somewhere between 17% drag on the numbers from a 25% contributions so it’s 35% it’s still going to be about 10% to 12% hit.
And I am just wondering were the -- was the euro down that much that it caused that kind of drag on the numbers or is my math wrong? The euro was down.
We have several currencies that impact us on a translation basis.
You’ve got -- first of all you got the euro and then you got the pound and then you’ve got the Canadian dollar.
If you look at that and actually when I said 35% it’s -- I was embracing our northern neighbours here and I was using Canada.
If you just look at the United States talk about maybe think of Canada it’s international which is somehow I don’t really always it’s 40% outside the United States so Canada is in there.
So you see those kinds of variations.
Okay.
I mean basically one of those companies that is in current -- we are affected by currency but we have some good -- some reasonable natural hedges from transaction because we tend to make in the markets where we sell.
Right.
That's the next question I was going to get to.
You have those natural hedges so...
No not in everything but we are not immune.
Certain like this we are currency resistant from a transaction point of view but we are not immune.
So we don’t bring our hands over it.
We see it coming like I said clearly we had currency -- we had currency last year actually.
We’ve got it this year.
If the rates stay where they or rise some but it doesn’t affect our operating activity because we know that that 16.7% is going to stay with us that 12.9% is going to stay with us that 9.8% is going to stay with us.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Our next question comes from Richard Hilgert with Morningstar.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Good morning everybody.
Sure.
Good morning Richard.
I was looking at the currency impact a little bit differently.
I added back the currency impacts to each one of the revenues for each of the groups and then also added back the negative impact for currency for each one of their operating results.
Yes.
The year-over-year increase or expansion in margin excluding currency was 140 basis points.
When I did all those add backs I came up with an expansion that was just about 10 basis points less than that at about 130 which is still a fantastic performance.
But I'm curious is that because -- correct me if I am wrong but isn’t C&amp;I a little bit more of the mix when you add back the currencies and that's why the expansion wasn't quite as much when you take into consideration the currency? I’ll tell you this.
I’ll tell you this is that in our numbers 120 basis points for our calculation no effective currency in that 120.
In other words it all balances out at the corporate level.
At the corporate level it all balances out.
So we don't really -- at a margin level at a margin rate level.
So the 16.7% from our perspective is basically all RCI it’s pretty much – it’s got bad news from pension it’s got bad news from pension and so on and it’s primarily RCI and volume productivity.
Yes.
No matter how you slice it it’s still a great performance.
It’s got a little bit of restructuring good news offsetting pension and the rest is productivity currency doesn’t come in there.
But if you go by the various groups C&amp;I it’s helped a little bit on the margin rate basis not on an absolute basis by currency.
Tools Group being Tools Group would -- if they didn’t have currency Tools Group would be much more -- it would have been more than 150 basis points.
And our C&amp;I a little bit of currency.
But that’s way it kind of works out.
Okay.
And then on the hand tools side since we’ve had improving economic conditions for the last three four years now have you see an increase in the number of garages opening up in the United States.
Is that all sold out? No.
Technician population is probably growing at about 1.3% for government work that would be the number.
But the garages in fact if anything if anything actually depending how far back you go the dealerships have shrunk.
I think the dealerships were about 21 000 before recession now that it’s 17 or 18.
So they have shrunk.
The independents have stayed about the same.
The independent have taken more share since that’s started before the recession.
That seems to may be now this state always trail.
So that’s kind of levelled off a lot of people think now.
But I think there hasn’t been a big change in the characteristics except the independents are becoming more sophisticated because they have the deal with the changing technologies.
20 years ago there were 50 engines codes on a car now there is 5 000 engine codes.
It’s hard to fix the car without the diagnostic unit now and we have the best one.
And so we are selling them to technicians now not just the garages and so that’s helping drive our business.
So that technology change in the independent space that’s why we talked about the diagnostic workstation because the independent garages know that people know their cars are more like spaceships these days.
And they want to bring them to people who could fix and therefore this diagnostic unit makes it look like wow this is big computer unit that can fix the car helps fix the car and it grows confidence.
And actually it helps in terms of accuracy.
So if anything we’re seeing a greater demand of our product in the independent shops and other shops because of the change in technology that’s’ the big change.
Okay.
Great.
And then with respect to your comments about Europe and new car sales in what that means in terms of hand tool sales over there.
Just noticing Western Europe trailing 12 months new car sales are up about 6% Eastern Europe however those is up about 10%.
They were up as much as 15% back about around the third quarter of last year.
But that growth rate is kind of steadily got down a bit.
They are still tracking year-over-year increases.
So I’m kind of curious it makes sense that France and Germany you’re doing better.
The industry is doing better in general in those two countries.
But I'm surprised that the Eastern Europe hasn’t really kept up with the expansion of the new-car demand any comments about that? The new car demand is down in Eastern Europe right.
No.
I mean it’s still up.
It’s still up.
But for us new cars don’t matter.
I mean I think I’ve said that because the new car sales are almost always -- except in emerging markets place like China and India so on.
There is almost always small compared to the installed base to the car part.
Consider the U.S.
$16 million cars North America 17 million 18 million cars sold.
There is a 300 million on the road.
It’s like a fly spec almost the new cars compared to those on the roads So doesn’t really move our business that much up and down and sort of a shortly basis.
In terms of Eastern Europe I think I would just suggest you that I'm not really sure what’s going on in the Eastern Europe it’s a cocktail of different countries.
So it’s really hard to say I mean you see Russia being so weak.
On the other hand our business is up in Poland for example if you include that in Eastern Europe.
Yeah.
I do.
So it’s hard to make much prediction about that.
I think this is just one of those turbulent things that where traditional economics don't always work in every period.
Okay.
And just for clarification on new car sales it would impact you from the perspective of the new diagnostics in the new tools that have to come out of the service new vehicle right? Sure.
Okay.
But that’s a longer wave event.
In other words you’re right Richard but the next year isn’t that much different.
It changes some and so people need to adjust for that.
But these things work through over time.
I was reacting to the idea that people say while new car sales were up in the first quarter therefore your business is going to be better.
I don’t think so.
It doesn’t affect us that much.
It’s much longer.
And the last question for Aldo.
The financial services business the receivables debt year-over-year keeps growing at the low double-digit numbers despite the lower revenue on the single-digit numbers.
Any comments on how come we’re still seeing so much more growth I thought that the financial services business was pretty much penetrated for being a captive now? Richard just to remind you most of the activity in financial services actually about 94% to 95% of it really reflects activity in the Snap-on Tools Group.
So if you look at on Snap-on Tools Group performance again it was I think organically 12 plus percent 12.9%.
And I think what you’re seeing when you look at the originations of 14.2 on the topline for full year growth you seeing it really reflective of the Tools Group and the Financial Services penetration of their sale of not just big-ticket items but a variety of the product that they sell.
So overtime it will mirror that and I think if you look back it’s rather consistent with Tools Groups performance over the last several quarters.
Okay.
Are they doing more in RS&amp;I at this point? Above the same level.
I mean we are growing with RS&amp;I at about the same level.
The biggest different has been the reflection of the Tools Group.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Take care.
And there are no more questions over the phone.
So at this time I’d like to turn the conference back over to our host for any additional or closing remarks.
Great.
Thanks everyone for joining us today.
A replay of the call will be available shortly and as always we thank you for your interest in Snap-on.
Good day.
Please stand by we're about to begin.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Snap-on Inc.
2015 Second Quarter Results Conference Call.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
And at this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Leslie Kratcoski.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thanks Aaron and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to review Snap-on's second quarter results which are detailed in our press release issued earlier this morning.
We have on the call today Nick Pinchuk Snap-on's Chief Executive Officer; and Aldo Pagliari Snap-on's Chief Finance Officer.
Nick will kick off our call this morning with his perspective on our performance.
Aldo will then provide a more detailed review of our financial results.
After Nick provides some closing thoughts we'll take your questions.
As usual we've provided slides to supplement our discussion.
You can find a copy of these slides on our website next to the audio icon for the call.
These slides will be archived on our website along with a transcript of today's call.
Any statements made during this call relative to management's expectations estimates or beliefs or otherwise state management's or the company's outlook plans or projections are forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those made in such statements.
Additional information and the factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are contained in our SEC filings.
With that said I'll now turn the call over to Nick Pinchuk.
Nick? Thanks Leslie.
Good morning everyone.
I'll start this call with some highlights of our second quarter.
I'll speak about the general environment and about the trends we see and I'll take you through some of the progress we've made.
Then Aldo will move into a more detailed review of the financials.
Our second quarter results were encouraging.
We believe they once again offer strong evidence of clear Snap-on advancements along our runways for both growth and for improvement.
Organic sales were up 8.4% from last year.
The operating margin expanded by 100 basis points.
And earnings per share they reached $2.03 up 12.8% compared with the $1.80 reported last year.
Our reported sales increase was 3.1%.
That total includes the continuing weight of unfavorable foreign currency translations this quarter an impact of $43.4 million.
Including the incremental $2.8 million from last year's Pro-Cut acquisition our total reported sales for the period – our sales for the period were $851.8 million.
The opco operating margin reached 17.7% up from 16.7% in 2014; and as I said representing 100 basis points increase more than offsetting the 40 basis point impact on profit from unfavorable currency.
Financial Services operating income grew to $41.4 million from last year's $34.8 million driving our consolidating operating margins financial services plus opco to 21.1% higher by 140 basis points.
It wasn't our encouraging quarter.
From an overall macro perspective we believe the conditions remain favorable for our businesses serving automotive repair customers the businesses like the Tools Group and the Repair Systems &amp; Information our RS&amp;I Group.
In the second quarter the Tools Group organic activity increased 11.2%.
The tailwinds of changing vehicle technology and the ageing of the fleet continue to provide opportunity.
And the rising strength of our van network and our robust continuing line of new products they enabled Snap-on to take greater advantage of those tailwinds and clear – and it's clearly evidenced in the numbers.
In RS&amp;I they had organic gains of 3.3% led by higher sales of diagnostics and repair information products to independent repair shop owners and managers increased sales to OEM dealerships and higher sales of undercar equipment; all serving to offset the particular challenges in Russia Eastern Europe and the Middle East where that Group had made particular progress in prior periods.
For the Commercial &amp; Industrial C&amp;I there are also continued signs of advancement.
Organic sales up 11.2% in the quarter.
And for C&amp;I along our runways for growth we saw important and clear headway; headway in our efforts to extend into critical industries in our European business and in several emerging markets.
That progress was one against pockets of turbulence in geographies like Europe where the uncertainty of Greece looms; in places like Japan where recovery is sporadic; and in the U.S.
military.
U.S.
military has been a somewhat unpredictable sector.
Well in the second quarter U.S.
military activity experience for Snap-on another strong period up double-digits from last year.
However we do remain cautious on the military business there.
This is a period of uncertainty.
Changing deployments and budget pressure make it difficult to predict the future trajectory of that business with any confidence.
But having said that having said that we believe we're well positioned in the military sector to make the most of any available opportunities any available openings.
Overall the C&amp;I results are quite positive.
The opportunity is definitely outweighing the challenges and the results they confirm it.
More broadly for the whole operation for the whole of Snap-on.
The operating income gains across the corporation clearly demonstrate the leverage and the power of the Snap-on value creation processes.
Safety quality customer connection innovation and rapid continuous improvement they all drive our improvement every day; and they help to offer 100 basis point gain in the quarter overcoming the significant challenges.
Now let's highlight some of the advancements in growth and in improvement demonstrated by the individual groups.
We'll start with C&amp;I.
As I just said an 11.2% organic sales gain and that follows a 9.8% organic sales gain in the first quarter.
C&amp;I's operating income margin was 14.3% up 100 basis points both the higher volume and the benefits of Snap-on value creation drove that raise.
And there were some very positive volume gains.
SNA Europe registered its seventh straight quarter of year-over-year growth a promising trend outperforming the storm clouds that occupied the headlines of Europe.
The industrial division saw particularly strong activity in the aviation sector a key area of our focus in extending to critical industries.
Some of those aerospace gains can be attributed to our growing line of innovative new products specifically aimed at that industry products like our new array of aircraft tire gauges and inflators.
When it comes to aircraft tires and struts proper measurement and inflation are key for safe takeoffs and landing as well as for breaking predictability and effectiveness.
We talk about critical industries those sound kind of critical for people who travel.
Raising the bar in that arena our new line of 300 PSI analog and digital tire gauges offer improved accuracy.
Our approval for hazardous environments incorporate a reflective glow dial or a backlit display.
It makes – they make the technicians' work more effective safer and easier meeting all type of challenges in all types of conditions.
Also in the quarter and aimed right at aviation we introduced the new Snap-on Electro Static Discharge-Safe Precision Pliers.
They're designed for use on static-sensitive components in circuitry with a specifically designed handle to dissipate electricity improved squeezing torque control and a low profile design for greater accessibility than the standard pliers all features that are valued by professionals performing those critical aviation tasks.
The 300 PSI tire gauges and static discharge safe pliers innovative new product adding to our growing aerospace offering and clearly demonstrating our efforts to roll the Snap-on brand out of the garage to extend into critical industries like aviation.
And the second quarter results they confirm that it's working.
Now let's speak about SNA Europe.
Our European hand tool – our European-based hand tool business.
SNA Europe broad organic growth and gains in the period up mid single-digits growth in Spain United Kingdom and in the Nordic region.
And besides that volume rise SNA Europe continued its trajectory of operating margin improving leveraging the additional sales but also realizing the benefits of RCI and Snap-on value creation against a backdrop of substantial Euroland turbulence.
SNA Europe sales up for the seventh straight quarter but once again profits up more.
And we're also continuing to build in emerging markets.
Asia-Pacific was another contributor to C&amp;I growth.
Activity up in relatively uneven markets like Korea and Indonesia.
C&amp;I did have an encouraging quarter but we know there's still more opportunity; opportunity to continue building on the momentum generated by our European operations to strengthen our position within emerging markets and to proceed forward down our runways of critical industries extending to even more customers.
Now let's move to the Tools Group.
Sales were up 11.2% organically with double-digit gains in the U.S.
and internationally.
Operating margin up 17.1% up 70 basis points versus the 16.4% recorded last year and overcoming within the quarter 120 basis points of unfavorable currency impact.
That 70 basis point improvement brings our Tools Group OI margin to new levels and that margin performance clearly speaks to our improving position.
And when combined with the growth this quarter demonstrates the success we're having on this decisive runway enhancing the franchise network.
You can see it in the sales and you can see it in the overall franchise health metrics trending positively again this quarter.
Snap-on franchisees are a committed and capable group and you're convinced of that every time you meet one of them.
And we're working hard every day to support their effort through creative marketing access to in-house customer financing with Snap-on Credit and a growing array of innovative new products.
Products like our new ratcheting combination wrenches with an innovative design higher strength and enhanced durability.
Our new ratcheting gear design safely delivers 25% more torque and 95% longer fatigue life; innovative Snap-on technology enabling the transfer of more power in a thinner smaller diameter wrench head helping to access and remove the most stubborn of fasteners in tight tight spaces.
The Dual 80 design with an 80 tooth ratcheting gear and dual pawls minimizes the swing arc that's needed to move fasteners.
A great enabler a great enabler in the engine compartments of today's vehicles.
And of course the new wrench features our unique Flank Drive wrenching system that consistently minimizes fastener damage.
Snap-on's new line of combination wrenches raises the bar for professionals in performing critical and difficult tasks.
It's a winning tool line on an existing product platform a direct result of Snap-on value creation shaped by customer connections direct observations in the shop and delivered by the Snap-on innovation process.
It's already generating excitement in the repair shops all over this country and there's more to come.
Now the growing strength of our van network – our rolling selling space it's what the van network is – is evident with the increases in big ticket sales.
And a considerable boost comes from our hands-on demonstration vehicles like the Rock N' Roll Cab Express vans 66 of them bringing a much wider range of our tool storage line-ups directly to the shop more colors more shapes more options and more choices displayed across our customer base.
And if you've been listening to these calls for anytime you've heard the story of this innovative marketing initiative the Rock N' Roll van expanding our van selling space.
And they continue to be a significant contributor to the Tools Group.
In the quarter big ticket sales were up strong double-digits and our demonstration vans were a big driver.
But those vans weren't the only factor big ticket gains were also propelled by new two storage products; winning offerings like our special edition 95th anniversary box another in a long line of our customized tools storage systems.
We mentioned them I think on the last quarter's call and they've been popular.
Technicians upgrading their workspace celebrating our milestone year and providing clear testimony to the strength of the Snap-on brand positioned in shops all around the world.
Another key advantage for the Tools Group is our Financial Services on Snap-on Credit strategic programs aimed at smoothing the way for those big ticket purchases.
Our credit company plays an essential role in enhancing the van network and again this quarter it did just that.
Well that's the Tools Group attractive new products guided by customer connection innovation marketing and a unique credit facility all increasing the power of the Snap-on van channel and driving sales to new levels.
Now on to RS&amp;I organic sales growth of $8.7 million or 3.3%.
The second quarter operating margin 24.4% rising 120 basis points compared to last year's 23.2%.
Margin expansion another demonstration of RCI in Snap-on value creation.
The organic sales gain was broad-based the diagnostics and information businesses selling to independent repair shop owners and managers with a mid single-digit gain in volume helped by new products.
Products like the ETHOS Tech our newest diagnostic handheld offering aimed – is aimed at individual shop technicians and first-time diagnostic buyers.
The ETHOS Tech is a full function scan tool with a quick boot-up streamlined interface a large color screen and full comprehensive coverage of car makes and vehicle systems all the features that are so important even for the entry level technician in today's environment where vehicle diagnostics are becoming essential for everyday maintenance as well as complex repair.
More technicians than ever before will be using diagnostics in almost every job and ETHOS Tech is a great way for them to get started.
Also in the quarter RS&amp;I released its latest software update for our PRO-LINK Ultra supplying truck shops with even broader diagnostic data covering both diesel and larger gasoline engines.
The PRO-LINK Ultra it's capable of diagnosing commercial vehicles from light diesel to Class 8 heavy-duty trucks.
It delivers the widest coverage ever available in – at a single handheld diagnostic tool including data for major vehicle system.
It's a great enabler for the – it's a great enabler that I guess quite simply provides heavy-duty technicians with the range of diagnostic information now necessary to perform their daily task.
And it's becoming the choice across the heavy-duty sector.
Equipment division registered a low single digit organic sales rise overcoming the turbulence in Eastern Europe.
Some of those gains were offered by our new aligner the V2400 launched just this period.
The V2400 designed for premium OEM dealerships and for high-end wheel service shops places that require advanced alignment techniques.
It offers increased accuracy and repeatability higher resolution cameras that produce live alignment and diagnostic data passive lightweight front and rear targets that improve durability and advanced dimensioning that identifies frame or structural damage or mismatched tire sizes; a regular cause of vehicle pulling or driver complaint all of those are features that aid greatly in technician productivity.
We believe we have an exceptional product in this next-generation aligner and early returns indicates that our customers are saying the same thing.
Speaking about the equipment division May marked the one-year anniversary of our acquisition of the Pro-Cut on-car brake lathes.
We're excited to have Pro-Cut as part of the team.
When we put Pro-Cut advanced brake servicing product line – Pro-Cut advanced brake servicing product line together with another recent add Challenger Lifts it gives us more to sell to vehicle repair shop owners and managers to customers in independent shops national service chains and OEM dealerships.
And when packaged along with our other established RS&amp;I products Snap-on now offers a wider range of shop solutions than ever before.
So to wrap up RS&amp;I we see new diagnostics unique truck repair information and a growing undercar equipment offering driving positive trends improving our position with repair shop owners and managers across the globe.
Well that's the highlight of our quarter growth and improvement.
C&amp;I strength at SNA Europe and emerging markets and in critical industries expanding margins.
The Tools Group growing double-digits again robust sales and operating margin continuing to enhance our franchise network.
RS&amp;I advancing its position making gains in both independent shops and OEMs growing operating margins by 120 basis points.
And Financial Services raising its contribution and helping provide strategic evidence of growth for out Tools Group and overall for the corporation.
Sales increasing organically by 8.4%.
Opco operating income margin of 17.7% up 100 basis points.
EPS $2.03 in the quarter 12.8% higher than the $1.80 last year.
It was another encouraging quarter.
Now I'll turn the call over to Aldo who will take you through the financials in detail.
Aldo? Thanks Nick.
Our second quarter consolidated operating results are summarized on slide six.
Net sales of $851.8 million in the quarter were up 8.4% organically.
On a reported basis net sales including $43.4 million of unfavorable foreign currency translation increased $25.3 million or 3.1% from 2014 levels.
As you know Snap-on has significant international operations and is subject to foreign currency fluctuations.
Largely due to the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar foreign currency movements adversely impacted our year-over-year Q2 sales comparisons by 570 basis points.
Consolidated gross profit of $419 million increased $18.6 million from 2014 levels primarily due to benefits from higher sales savings from RCI initiatives and lower restructuring costs partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency effects.
The gross margin of 49.2% in the quarter improved 80% from 48.4% a year ago.
Operating expenses of $268.2 million increased $5.9 million largely due to higher volume-related and other expenses including higher pension expense partially offset by favorable foreign currency translation and savings from RCI initiatives.
The operating expense margin of 31.5% improved 20 basis points from 31.7% last year.
No restructuring costs were incurred in the second quarter of 2015.
In the second quarter of last year we incurred $1.4 million of such costs.
Pension expense in the quarter was approximately $2 million higher as compared to the prior year mostly reflecting the impacts of lower discount rates as well as increased life expectancies.
As a result of these factors operating earnings before Financial Services of $150.8 million in the quarter including $12 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects increased 9.2% and as a percentage of sales improved 100 basis points to 17.7%.
Financial Services revenue of $58.7 million in the quarter increased 13.5% from 2014 levels while operating earnings of $41.4 million increased 19%.
The increases in both revenue and operating earnings primarily reflect the continued growth of the Financial Services portfolio.
Consolidated operating earnings of $192.2 million in the quarter including $12.6 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects increased $11.2 million.
And the operating margin of 21.1% improved 140 basis points from 19.7% a year ago.
Our second quarter effective income tax rate of 32% compared with 32.9% in the second quarter and 32.1% for the 2014 full year.
Finally net earnings of $120 million or $2.03 per diluted share increased $13.9 million or $0.23 per share representing a 12.8% increase in diluted earnings per share.
Now let's turn to our segment results.
Starting with Commercial &amp; Industrial or C&amp;I Group on slide seven.
Sales of $295.8 million in the quarter were up 11.2% organically reflecting a high single-digit gain in sales to customers in critical industries a mid single-digit increase in the segment's European-based hand tools business and a double-digit increases in both the segment's power tools and Asia-Pacific operations.
Gross profit in the C&amp;I Group of $112.9 million in the quarter increased $1.1 million from 2014 levels primarily due to the benefits of higher sales and savings from RCI initiatives partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency effects.
The gross margin of 38.2% decreased 70 basis points largely due to a shift to lower gross margin sales including higher sales to the military and increased sales in our Asia-Pacific operations.
Operating expenses of $70.7 million in the quarter decreased $2.9 million from 2014 levels primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation partially offset by higher volume related and other expenses.
The operating expense margin of 23.9% improved 170 basis points mostly due to sales volume leverage including benefits from the previously mentioned sales shift.
As a result of these factors operating earnings for the C&amp;I segment of $42.2 million including $2 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects increased $4 million from 2014 levels and the operating margin of 14.3% improved 100 basis points.
Turning now to slide eight.
Second quarter sales of the Snap-on Tools Group of $398.7 million increased 11.2% organically reflecting double-digit sales gains in both the company's U.S.
and international franchise operations.
Gross profit of $176.5 million increased $15.4 million from 2014 levels and the gross margin of 44.3% in the quarter improved 70 basis point primarily due to benefits from higher sales and savings from RCI initiatives partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency effects.
Operating expenses of $108.5 million increased $7.9 million from 2014 levels principally due to higher volume related and other expenses partially offset by favorable foreign currency translation.
The second quarter operating expense margin was 27.2% in both years.
As a result of these factors operating earnings for the Snap-on Tools Group of $68 million including $6.7 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects increased $7.5 million and the operating margin of 17.1% improved 70 basis points.
Turning to the Repairs Systems &amp; Information or RS&amp;I Group shown on slide nine.
Sales of $277.4 million in the quarter increased 3.3% organically from 2014 levels.
The organic sales increase primarily reflects a mid single-digit gain in sales of diagnostics and repair information products to independent repair shop owners and managers and low single-digit gains in both sales of undercar equipment and sales to OEM dealerships.
Gross profit of $129.6 million increased $2.1 million over 2014 levels principally due to benefits of higher sales savings from RCI initiatives and lower restructuring cost partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency effects.
The gross margin of 46.7% improved 90 basis points year-over-year.
Operating expenses of $61.9 million in the quarter decreased $1 million from 2014 levels primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation and savings from RCI initiatives partially offset by higher volume related and other expenses.
The operating expense margin of 22.3% improved 30 basis points from 2014.
Second quarter operating earnings for the RS&amp;I Group of $67.7 million including $3.3 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects increased $3.1 million from prior year levels and the operating margin of 24.4% improved 120 basis points.
Now turning to slide 10.
In the second quarter operating earnings from Financial Services of $41.4 million on revenue of $58.7 million compared with operating earnings of $34.8 million on revenue of $51.7 million last year.
The average yield on finance receivables of 17.8% in the quarter compared with 17.5% last year; and the average yield on contract receivables of 9.4% compared with 9.5% last year.
Originations of $253.4 million increased 8.9% from 2014 levels.
Moving to slide 11.
As of quarter end our balance sheet includes approximately $1.47 billion of gross financing receivables including $1.27 billion from our U.S.
Snap-on Credit operations.
Approximately 80% of our U.S.
financing portfolio relates to extended credit loans to technicians.
During the quarter our worldwide finance portfolio grew approximately $63 million.
As for finance portfolio losses and delinquency trends these continue to be in line with our expectations.
Now turning to slide 12.
Cash provided by operations of $160.3 million in the quarter increased $35.9 million from comparable 2014 levels reflecting higher net earnings in 2015 and net changes in operating assets and liabilities.
Net cash used by investing activities of $85.4 million included $58.1 million to fund a net increase in finance receivables.
Second quarter capital expenditures of $27.7 million included $7.8 million to acquire a previously leased bandsaw manufacturing facility in United Kingdom.
Capital expenditures in the second quarter of last year were $22.7 million.
Turning to slide 13.
Days sales outstanding for trade receivables of 60 days compared with 61 days at 2014 year end.
Inventories increased $23.7 million from 2014 year end levels primarily to support continued higher customer demand and new product introductions.
On a trailing 12 month basis inventory turns of 3.5 compared with 3.7 turns at 2014 year end.
Our quarter end cash position of $124.6 million decreased $8.3 million from 2014 year end levels.
The net decrease includes the impact of funding $416 million of new finance receivables the repurchase of 580 000 shares for $86.9 million dividend payments of $61.7 million and capital expenditures of $45.8 million.
These cash decreases were largely offset by $319.3 million of cash from collections of finance receivables $238.4 million of cash from operations net of $25 million of discretionary cash contributions to the company's domestic pension plans and $36.5 million of cash proceeds from stock purchase and option plan exercises.
Our net debt to capital ratio of 25.8% compared with 26.3% at 2014 year end.
In addition to our $124.6 million of cash and expected cash flow from operations we have more than $700 million in available credit facilities and our current short-term credit ratings allow us to access the commercial paper markets.
At quarter end we had $35 million of commercial paper borrowings outstanding.
This concludes my remarks on our second quarter performance.
Now I'll turn the call over to Nick for his closing thoughts.
Nick? Thanks Aldo.
Well that's the Snap-on results.
Once again we believe the period stands as clear testimony to the opportunities abundant along our runways for growth and for improvement.
And it confirms our team's capability to keep taking full advantage despite the challenges like unfavorable currency turbulent economies and varying industry dynamics we are progressing along our runways for growth.
C&amp;I organic sales rising 11.2%; OI margin 14.3% up 100 basis points extended to critical industries gains in aviation and the military building in emerging markets.
The Tools Group enhancing the van channel wielding the network more powerfully than ever.
Organic sales up 11.2%; OI margins 17.1% a 70 basis point increase.
And RS&amp;I organic sales up 3.3%; OI margin 24.4% an increase of 120 basis points.
And the overall corporation growing organically at 8.4% overcoming the headwind.
And we demonstrated progress down our runways for improvement.
The Corporate OI margin was 17.7% up 100 basis points more than offsetting 40 basis points of unfavorable currency impact.
Putting it all together with Financial Services' contributions earnings per share reached $2.03 up 12.8% against the wind.
Second quarter was encouraging and we believe it demonstrates again that Snap-on has the inherent advantages the opportunities and the capabilities to advance to resist the turbulence to keep progressing and to extend our positive trend of performance as we go forward.
Before I turn the call over to the operator for questions I'll speak a moment to our franchisees and associates.
As always I know many of you are listening please know that the encouraging results of the second quarter would not have been possible without your dedication and capability your demonstrated skill clear commitment and extraordinary contribution to our team; you have my congratulations and you have my thanks.
Now I'll turn the call over to the operator.
Operator? And we'll take our first question from David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
Yes.
Good morning everyone.
Congratulations Nick on a great quarter.
Thanks.
Thank you.
I guess I'm struck by the slow originations growth up 8.9% and what looks like divergence against a double-digit growth in big ticket.
And I'm mindful that credit typically exists on the sell-through.
Is it possible that your franchisees are just seeing a much higher level of inventory right now and that would have explained that divergence or maybe you could help us understand that? There's a lot of vintage in that.
Fundamentally there is questions of timings there is a secondary market that comes into that there is the questions of the how much – what are those actually sold at versus what we sell what sales price we book versus what the van driver books.
The numbers are something like this I think they're – what were they 8.9% this quarter? Yeah.
And originations in 11.2%.
But last quarter they were reverse it was 14.2% versus 12.9%.
And the quarter before that it was – in other words 14.2% was the originations and 12.9% was the Tools Group and 7.5% (36:16) was the originations in the fourth quarter and 11.8% was the Tools Group.
So they don't match up perfectly.
We are unconcerned – we're not concerned about anything like that.
And we don't see anything like buildup of inventory in the vans at all.
This is just a matter of timing and the differences I pointed out.
Okay.
And that big ticket growth you were talking about the double-digit growth.
Is there any way you can help us understand the difference between price mix growth versus volume growth? You mean – well I think – look the big ticket items are – you mean in terms of big ticket growth itself or the effect on Tools? Yes.
No the big ticket growth.
I'm just trying to understand how much of that was from – I'm presuming you're talking about revenue growth and I'm just wondering how much of that...
Yeah yeah.
No if you're talking about revenue growth.
Generally big ticket prices are – when we're talking about – when I talk about big ticket growth I'm talking about what the big ticket items were a year ago and they've grown actually at double-digits a little faster than the Tools Group.
And in fact that's I would say apples-to-apples in terms of pricing.
So it's pretty much volume growth in that situation.
Volume growth.
Okay.
And then last question just – there's been a lot of talk about competition within the diagnostic space and there's been a lot of evolution lately in terms of how people are going to market the value prop and how it's packaged.
Are you feeling the increased presence of competitive product in the market? That might explain the lower organic growth rates in RS&amp;I or how should we think about that? I don't think so.
I mean first of all it's one quarter; that's one thing.
And that can be moved up and down.
But the diagnostics and information business – the sale of diagnostics and our information products into independent repair shops which is the space we're talking about was up fairly strongly in the quarter.
I think we said high single digits.
So – mid-single digits.
So that was a little bit better than RS&amp;I.
And then second thing is I would offer that – I was just on these Rock N' Roll – I was on one of these techno vans recently.
And the van driver told me he said we're not associated – we're not worried about competition our biggest competition is the difficulty in getting to a technician and explaining to him the product getting him to appreciate the value of our business.
He didn't cite any competitors at all.
In fact I never see – I was just with 1 200 customers over the weekend and that – 10 days ago and they were talking about this product and basically they talked about the idea that it was better than anything else we had – better than anything else we had brought out.
Secondly – I mean thirdly I would suppose that when you – when we survey independent technicians when we ask them what's your preferred form of diagnostic it's still overwhelmingly Snap-on.
I think the numbers the latest numbers we have are 60 for Snap-on 11 for number two.
So you see all those.
Now if you come back to RS&amp;I I suppose your question was RS&amp;I; I personally think we were encouraged by the RS&amp;I growth because of the equipment business which tends to get dinged because of Eastern Europe.
So ironically equipment business was – grew I think Aldo said low single-digits.
So it's somewhat of a drag from a volume point of view but from a margin point of view because in my remarks I talked about that new aligner the V2400 hey that's a great product and it's selling very well and it's a great margin generator for us.
So what you saw from an equipment business actually was a little bit of drag on RS&amp;I revenues but a boost on RS&amp;I margins because of the aligner business because it helps you understand RS&amp;I a little bit more.
But we don't see actually we don't see at least in my interactions from the market.
So logically or at least in talking to market we don't see much pressure and then empirically we don't see it in our numbers as pressure either.
Is there any way you can size for us the size of the Eastern European undercar business as a percentage? I don't think I want to get into that granularity but...
Sure.
...but I can just say that that business is bigger for equipment -bigger than for equipment than anybody else because – and it becomes a historical thing.
We made better inroads in Eastern Europe and the Middle East than almost any of our other businesses.
And so it has been particularly impacted by this particular downturn and in this particular set of economic dynamics.
Now we have other – we're not mourning or wringing our hands over that but when you start slicing the corporation down into pieces that you start to see it a little bit more like it comes out in RS&amp;I.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Great quarter.
Sure.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from David Leiker with Baird.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
This is Joe Vruwink for David.
Hi Joe.
Hello Joe.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Sticking with diagnostics Nick when you originally started throwing out a gross target for that segment and thinking it would grow kind of near to 5% rate.
I believe the strategy at that time was to sell a diagnostics unit to a repair shop and now you're talking about selling diagnostics units to each technician within that shop.
And so how might that change maybe the longer-term growth profile for the business knowing the evolution of that strategy? Well first of all I'm not abandoning the idea we're selling for the shops.
I think we still have a lot of runway in terms of what I would call the downtown diagnostics the things that will stand up and tell your fortune the higher level ones that a shop would buy and might have one or two of them in the shop.
We still have a lot of runway in that area so – and it's a very important product line for us.
And in fact we feel pretty positive about the possibilities and the opportunity for that opportunity but I think what you say is very true.
We now know that more and more of the repair activities in a shop are going to require diagnostics.
I think I said possibly on the last call that roughly 40% of repairs require diagnostics today and the new cars 80% of the repair.
So you can see how that's going to go as new cars roll into the marketplace.
And so maintenance techs as opposed to the repair techs guys who do oil changes and battery changes and just tune up the cars are going to have to use diagnostics to do these kinds of things to reset some of the parameters that they start with that they change when they make these changes.
And so we'll be looking to sell diagnostics those things.
That's the purpose of the ETHOS Tech.
So you would expect that that would add a boost to that.
But I would still say I would still say – let's not talk of 4% to 6% I would still say that if you look at the long-term sort of over the horizon opportunities for our businesses I would rank C&amp;I with the critical industries and the emerging markets as the highest growth opportunity.
It's got unbounded opportunity.
If you look at – I would say this particular one sits in the middle.
And then the Tools Group we've been able to wield that model better and better reach more technicians but at the end of the day it is bounded.
So I'd put them in those pieces.
Now maybe you might (43:58) between the 4% to 6% number but I – for our overall business but I still see RS&amp;I in that middle in middle.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And I probably won't get you to update the range itself today.
So I guess I can move on to my next question.
Really what I'm saying – let me just try to clarify.
When I said 4% to 6% I meant generally we can grow at that level.
If you want to look at the Tools Group we said it'd be at the bottom.
We can grow at that level roughly double GDP without necessarily coming up with things that would make our models more powerful.
We could capture more customers we could add more – no accelerators.
Now you see what happened in the Tools Group we got accelerators on top of that breaking through the barriers of space and time.
I was just on a techno – I just said I was on a techno van we talked about that.
We always – we always thought about that well it saves time.
And what it does is both the Rock N' Roll cab and the techno van save time for the franchisees because when the franchisee rides in parallel with these vans a couple times a year it's like a training seminar.
Because the guy who's running the van is an incredible salesman and it saves our franchisee from going to a training center – seminar to learn how to sell tool storage or to learn how to sell diagnostics.
And that's one of the reasons why the sales are up we not only added to the retail space but we also boosted the capabilities of our franchisees.
That's why same-store sales have been up greater than 6% 20 of the last 21 quarters that's the kind of effect.
So I think if we keep discovering ways to do that we'll beat that 4% to 6%.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Sure.
Now that's great color.
Shifting gears a little bit what's your experience around China before Snap-on and while at Snap-on? Is there anything going on in that region that gives you pause or areas of concern that you might be seeing just given your experience there? Look China is – I would see China through Tiananmen.
you got to remember.
So I was there when – I remember going to the hotel The Shanghai Hilton and I stayed there three days I never saw another guest.
And three months before that it was like going to the gold rush.
So you see a lot of variations in China I think this is quite normal.
You're seeing some variation but nothing that would affect my view of the long-term trajectory.
I see opportunities for us.
The repair ways will rise we will take advantage of it.
The shape of that advantage we have to figure out going forward; that's really our situation.
Of course Asia is now – I think it's correct and popular to say that Asia is varying and it is.
You see variations in India Modi isn't catching on quite a bit.
You see Indonesia coming back actually.
Japan is actually getting a little better.
We had a pretty good – we had a reasonable quarter in Japan.
Korea came back even though MERS has given us some problem we had a good quarter in Korea.
So you have variations but nothing that interdicts the long-term view.
And I spend six weeks a year there.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> And nothing – if the long-term in China is so positive what about more the near-term any risks or volatility? Well yeah – sure there's volatility but we're not looking for a meltdown that kind of thing there's volatility.
There is volatility in China of course.
We have good – we have great quarters we have medium quarters those kinds of things.
Our Asia-Pacific business as Aldo said they grew double-digits in a quarter.
Okay? Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Very good.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to Liam Burke with Wunderlich.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning Nick.
Good morning Aldo.
Morning Liam.
Morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Nick I'm sorry I'd like to stay on Asia-Pacific for a moment.
You have had a fair amount of upfront investment there.
It seems like you're getting growth.
But in generally directionally are the margins you're getting out of the region or the direction of the trends are they on track with expectations? Sure.
Actually we have no worry about I think the margins in that regard.
I mean it's the geography it's the P&amp;L geography.
I think you saw in Aldo's discussion again on C&amp;I how – I think gross margins were down 70 basis points and we made it up on SG&amp;A well it was SG&amp;A up 170 basis points.
And what's – the principle component of that was the geography of certain big players and Asia-Pacific is one of them lower gross margin lower SG&amp;A but OI margin kind of on track for what we like to do if you adjust for that forward investment.
So we feel okay about that.
I think we continue to be confident in that regard.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And staying with C&amp;I you mentioned power tools as being a driver of growth.
Typically that's – is that unique to the quarter or is there something going on in the market where you're getting a step-up in demand there? I don't think it's anything in the market I think it's – look – I think – actually I think we hit a bonanza this quarter and you know what we did? We actually took power tools and garbed them in the 95th anniversary colors.
And remember me talking about the box how people like signed up for this $10 000 box to put in effect a shrine to our corporation in the workplace.
Well if you offer it to them at a couple hundred dollars they're even more enthusiastic.
So part of what we're seeing there is this kind of push.
We put the – our half inch pneumatic impact which is a popular product but we garbed it in the 95th anniversary or the cordless ratchet or our air hammers things like that or our cordless impact and those have become popular.
I don't think it's a special demand thing.
I think power tools are kind of people – they wear out people buy them periodically and it's like a new car you show up with a new color and especially 95th anniversary colors for Snap-on is a collector item and it's a particularly compelling color.
And so they like that.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you Nick.
That's what's driving it.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And we'll go next to Tom Hayes with Northcoast Research.
Hi.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hi Tom.
Morning Tom.
Hey.
Just wondering – staying on the C&amp;I Group for a little bit you called out Nick aviation and military doing well.
I was just wondering if there's any segments that were lagging your expectations.
And then just...
Yeah...
...maybe just kind of a follow-up is just kind of reset where you have the larger international exposure in the C&amp;I Group? Sure.
We had a good quarter – this happens every quarter.
We have variations because we have six or seven critical industries in that area.
This quarter we happen to have a good – we had good progress in aviation heavy duty – the heavy duty sector was strong for us railroads were strong oil and gas was weak.
I think – but actually I'm not so sure last time it was up against the wind.
And I think for us we're just starting to penetrate these areas.
So they're not so driven by the economics as they are when you're just starting to penetrate you can get quite a variation from quarter to quarter that's the kind of thing we saw.
We saw some flatness in things like mining stuff like that.
But generally that's the – military was up double-digits.
We kind of expect C&amp;I to keep – the idea of extending to critical industries to keep going to keep moving.
Now I don't say it happens every quarter.
I mean this is a great example.
I mean I say every second quarter that we feel very good from a C&amp;I – we feel very good right now about our Commercial &amp; Industrial trajectory we feel very good about our Tools trajectory we feel very good about our software and diagnostics trajectory.
But that's the trajectory – and without giving – I'm not warning anything or saying anything about – third quarter's always squirrely.
I mean we have vacations in the third quarter and so on.
So you can't tell what sectors will be going in and out because we have our franchisees going on vacations sometimes usually in the third quarter Europe is on vacation.
So it's hard for me to predict it for every quarter.
But I can tell you we feel very encouraged by the trajectory.
And I'm not in any way trying to say that we're going to have a tepid third quarter or anything like that.
Okay great.
And then just following up on the Tools Group certainly there's a nice step up in operating margin both on a sequential and year-over-year basis.
Being relatively new to the story I was just wondering if there is anything unique in the quarter kind of one time that moved it up or does it just reflect continued strong growth in the RCI and maybe new tool roll outs? Yeah it's all of those.
Look I think what's happened in the Tools Group is in the quarter – as you know we focus on quarters but the limited information – the limited indication of what's going on in the Tools Group though has been doing this for some time now.
Like I said the numbers are something like this what 11.2% this quarter organically 12.9% the quarter before that 11.8% the quarter before that 6.2% the quarter before that 6.6% the quarter before.
So they're kind of – they've been growing at 6% plus for as I said 20 of the last 22 quarters in effect almost defying GDP gravity.
And so they're learning they've learned.
This management team has been in a while.
They're learning how to wield this capable tremendous model even better things like the Rock N' Roll cab the TechKnow Express learning what products learning the power of garbing the power tools into the 95th anniversary figuring out how to do that figuring out how to do – that's the things that are occurring.
And that when you marry it up with RCI that allows you to do these things more effectively allows you to drive profitability upwards as well as volume.
One other thing is that – I think I've said this is that – one of the things that works for us kind of a tailwind in a way is that we're a company that has complex product offerings 65 000 SKUs and we keep turning out more because we try to solve everybody's – we try to solve a wide array of problems well the idea of modern technology 3D printing finite element analysis X-ray diffractometers that allows you to look more accurately at the metallurgy the kinds of things we get out of – more accurately getting the information out of customer connection into the mark – into our innovation process; those kind of things accrue with amplified advantage to somebody who has a complex product line you're seeing some of that.
Great.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to Gary Prestopino with Barrington Research.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everyone.
Hey Gary.
Good morning Gary.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
A couple of quick questions.
Your emerging markets business Nick I don't think I either quoted or you said it but what was the growth there? And what's the percentage of sales now out of emerging markets? It's 10%.
And the growth was – well it depends if you talk about Eastern Europe as emerging markets right.
Eastern Europe.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Right.
Okay so I mean.
Yeah okay if you want to roll that in it ain't so good but the thing is Asia-Pacific grew double-digits.
So you can look at it that way.
I think – we actually have some businesses that weren't so bad in Eastern Europe but generally it was an element of pain this period.
And I – so I think you could call that an offset.
Asia okay.
Asia okay.
Middle East if you want to call that emerging market that was kind of weak.
South America was okay Chile was up Argentina was up.
So you kind of got a balance there a cocktail of things.
So let me just summarize.
Asia-Pacific double-digits.
I think South America the South – the Latin American countries the bigger ones for us were up more – kind of double-digity type stuff.
Eastern Europe tough down.
And Middle East down.
So that's where we are.
And you roll it all up when you classify something reasonably a rational man would classify as emerging markets 10% of our business.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
And then you – at times in the past you've talked that you try and do 40 plus products new product introductions that generate over $1 million of sales.
It just appears to be from the last couple of calls that that number has increased.
And could you comment on that? Actually – go ahead sorry.
Inc.</span></strong> No I was just going to add.
I would assume that as newer cars proliferate that is going to dictate to you – your company as to what new products you're going to come out with as the car part (57:39)? I agree.
You're right.
Actually I agree.
I think we have great opportunities.
And the thing I've said is the way we measure the effectiveness of our innovation process one of the measures is the number of hit products $1 million sellers in the first year of after first year of being on the market.
And I think you and I have been in this conservation that we were four five – in the last couple of years we were four times five times what we were just in 2006 and we keep pushing that envelop.
It's not so much – I think we're getting better at doing that.
It's not so much a number counting game it's getting better and they're having more impact and they're driving more sales and they're doing better things.
Like – just like I'll tell you what it sounds like not so important.
But the idea of the combo ratcheting wrench that will have a low profile 25% more – 25% more strength 95% more life will get in smaller spaces that one is going to be a great product for us and people are so excited about it.
People are saying that's the kind of thing we're – so I think we're not only bringing out a lot of them bringing out better ones because the whole product development process we're more effective at it.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you Nick.
Okay Gary.
And we'll take our final question from Richard Hilgert with Morningstar.
Thanks.
Thanks for taking my questions this morning.
Congrats on the quarter.
Thank you.
Good morning Richard.
Just curious about – on the new product development side we're seeing more and more penetration of things that are related to active safety and autonomous driving or assisted-driving automated systems these kinds of things.
We love it.
Yeah.
I was just going to ask are you already preparing for these kinds of things...
Yeah we love that.
...like what you're hearing from customers? Sure.
Because we love this thing.
I mean if you think about it okay autonomous driving.
The thing is that – if they go to autonomous driving there used to be an incredibly – before autonomous driving there would be an incredibly complex computer system for any imprecisions on the car that was called the human brain.
Think about alignment for example if the car was a little bit out of alignment you could adjust the wheel a little bit.
Now if you have autonomous driving let's say automatic parking you better not be out of alignment you're going to hit the parking meter.
And so that's going to require many more procedures and more precise procedures and we're the company to give it to you.
So we love those kinds of actions.
And so we're thinking about it particularly around anything around calibration very much helps you.
And that's sort of the equipment business – that's why we're so excited about the new V2400 aligner because it's kind of a downtown aligner which creates more accuracy and therefore fits right into this.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you.
Sure.
Operator? And with no questions in the queue I'll turn it back over to our speakers for any comments or closing remarks.
Okay.
Thanks Aaron and thanks everyone for joining us today.
A replay of the call will be available shortly on our website.
And as always we thank you for your interest in Snap-on.
Have a good day.
Bye.
And this does conclude today's conference.
Everyone we thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Snap-on Incorporated 2015 Third Quarter Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Leslie Kratcoski.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thanks Kevin and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to review Snap-on's third quarter results which are detailed in our press release issued earlier this morning.
We have on the call today Nick Pinchuk Snap-on's Chief Executive Officer; and Aldo Pagliari Snap-on's Chief Finance Officer.
Nick will kick off our call this morning with his perspective on our performance.
Aldo will then provide a more detailed review of our financial results.
After Nick provides some closing thoughts we'll take your questions.
As usual we have provided slides to supplement our discussion.
These slides can be accessed under the Downloads tab in the webcast viewer as well as on our website under Investor Information.
These slides will be archived on our website along with the transcript of today's call.
Any statements made during this call relative to management's expectations estimates or beliefs or otherwise state management's or the company's outlook plans or projections are forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those made in such statements.
Additional information and the factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are contained in our SEC filings.
With that said I'll now turn the call over to Nick Pinchuk.
Nick? Thanks Leslie.
Morning everybody.
As usual I'll start with the third quarter highlights provide an update on the environment and speak a bit about our trends.
Aldo will then provide a detailed review of the financials.
In the third quarter we again showed progress along our runways for growth and for improvement and we saw those gains across our operating segments.
Organic sales were up 7.3% from last year.
Opco operating margin it reached 17.5% up 130 basis points.
When you add the $43.5 million in operating earnings from Financial Services up from $37.7 million in 2014 the consolidated operating margin was 21.2% an increase of 160 basis points.
And EPS EPS was $1.98 up $0.22 or 12.5% from the $1.76 of last year.
Our reported sales increase was 1.9% including the impact of unfavorable foreign currency.
And in this quarter that total was $42.6 million about the same as the second quarter.
Adding the incremental $2.1 million sales from our third quarter acquisition of Ecotechnics the total reported sales for the period were $821.5 million.
For automotive repair businesses the environment continues to be favorable.
Actually it's been that way for a while.
And our Tools Group and Repair Systems &amp; Information our RS&amp;I Group are both well positioned to take full advantage.
You can see it in the performance another quarter of solid gains for both groups advancing along our runways for growth.
Clearly the Tools Group demonstrated enhancements to the franchise network gains in all its markets continuing to take advantage of the opportunities that are so abundant in a changing vehicle fleet not only in the United States but in places like the UK and Australia.
And RS&amp;I with strong sales across North America and parts of Europe double-digit growth in the U.S.
and modest gains in Western Europe offsetting the continuing softness in Eastern Europe and particularly in Russia.
RS&amp;I progress achieved with independent repair shop owners and managers and with OEM dealerships advanced by our latest diagnostics and undercar product offerings.
For the Commercial &amp; Industrial our C&amp;I Group we overcame some increased headwinds with the overall organic sales rise offsetting mixed environments across industries and across geographies.
That said in the third quarter our European based hand tool businesses and our Asia Pacific operations recorded high-single-digit gains overcoming the turbulence within their particular markets.
Now our Industrial division did have some headwinds in the period impacted by weak U.S.
military volume and slowdowns in our oil and gas activity.
We've consistently mentioned the uncertainty associated with the military.
In the third quarter that caution materialized and our results included a double-digit decrease.
Measured spending and budget constraints making the present tight and the future even more difficult to predict.
Within our Natural Resources segment volume in oil and gas was down substantially.
You see it in oil prices and you read about it in the newspapers.
And despite our small share and opportunities for penetration we were impacted.
But that said saying that there will always be headwinds.
They've been a factor in other quarters and they were present in the third quarter and we overcame because we're well positioned to confront the challenges and proceed down all our runways for growth enhancing the franchise network expanding the repair shop owners and managers extending the critical industries and building in emerging markets.
These do represent the avenues for advancement and there has been consistent progress along each of those paths.
At the same time those growth drivers are joined and supported by the benefits of Snap-On value creation safety quality customer connection innovation and rapid continuous improvement or RCI these are the processes the tools we use each and every day to drive improvements but this quarter we especially benefited from customer connection and innovation.
Customer connection: Snap-on's continuing pursuit of understanding of work derived from the hours and the days we spend with professionals.
Innovation: taking that practical insight and matching it with the possibilities of modern technologies.
And in the quarter those processes resulted in more prestigious product awards for the corporation.
We were again honored with two MOTOR Magazine Top 20 Tool Awards.
The winners this time are 3/8-inch Drive Steering Rack Sockets and our SOLUS Edge diagnostic handheld.
Let's talk about the steering rack socket.
The S6229 was developed from a customer connection derived from direct observation of work and from conversations with multiple technicians.
This innovative tool allows the tech to replace power steering O-rings without removing the whole steering assembly saving up to an hour of labor clearly making work easier and professional repair more productive.
In addition also created out of deep insight in the repair process the innovative SOLUS Edge coverage for hundreds of vehicle systems including hybrid TPMS steering and clean diesel and it all comes loaded with our Fast-Track Troubleshooter database with its vehicle specific tips tests and time savers.
The SOLUS Edge is enhanced coverage for over 40 car makes without the cost or complexity of factory scan tools.
And for all its power for all its strength it's easy to use.
The large 8-inch touch-screen display is an aid to visibility and the software provides accurate results in as little as 30 seconds quick.
I mention these awards because they're just the most recent recognitions of a growing list of very popular products that provide unique advantages created by the observations of our franchisees and direct salespeople who are committed to translating that insight into productivity innovations and that broad value creation is reflected in the positive results registered across all our operating groups again this quarter.
Now let's focus on those individual groups.
Starting with Commercial &amp; Industrial organic sales were up 3.4% operating margins reached 14.3% up 60 basis points from last year's 13.7% growth along with the benefits of Snap-on value creation.
Now I said as we said there are headwinds but our Industrial direct salesmen have been expanding their reach nevertheless into sectors like railroads up double-digits growing our presence offering a wider variety of tools and tool control solutions.
We've spoken in the past about building our understanding of work in critical industries expanding our customer connections.
Well one way that's happening is by using our experience in RCI participating in customer Lean events participating in the customer sponsored Lean events our team was able to assist in improving railroad operations while at the same time gaining a better understanding of their work processes their product requirements their business needs and their overall industry direction all key customer connections gained through Lean event participation.
One of the tools conceived from those insights was our special extendable line of tube wrenches great for heavy-duty work on railroad cars and tracks.
Made in our Elizabethton Tennessee plant these tube wrenches replace the traditional slugging wrenches in railroad applications allowing the operator better access eliminating the need for costly two-person slugging procedures and making work easier safer and more productive.
Let's speak about SNA Europe.
Now eight quarters in a row of year-over-year growth navigating through some of the most difficult geographies and tepid economies.
SNA Europe activities continues to be encouraged – activity continues to be encouraging but its profits are even more positive now up significantly for 10 straight quarters.
And we believe there's much more room for further gains.
And related to our Asia Pacific operations the environments are mixed but we had overall gains with upward movement in places like Thailand and Indonesia and Vietnam.
Actually it's nice to see progress in Vietnam that emerging Southeast Asia nation.
So that provides a bit of color on C&amp;I.
Now on to the Tools Group.
Organic sales up 11% 11% significant growth in the U.S.
and internationally.
Operating income $56.3 million compared to $49.5 million in 2014.
Operating income margins of 14.8% rose 90 basis points from last year's 13.9%.
The additional volume as well as operating improvements from RCI translated into significant margin improvement and that 90 basis point gain overcame 120 basis points of negative currency.
When you consider the Tools Group's success you see the power of Snap-on value creation and the benefits of our award-winning innovative new products.
Besides the MOTOR Top 20 award the Tools Group also received recognition from the readers of Professional Tool &amp; Equipment News gaining five People's Choice selections for new tool innovation products once again born at the intersection between customer connection insight and advanced technology wielded by our innovation teams products like the KRL 72-inch Roll Cab with its Power Tool Organizer System the powerful and light CT8850 18-volt cordless impact wrench our new brake caliper press our new advanced battery system tester with its print capability and our new EET2 full view welding helmet all selected by the readers of PTEN Magazine and by our technician customers as great new products products that make work easier and products that provide further evidence of Snap-on innovation.
You might remember that the third quarter is also when we hold the annual Snap-on Franchisees Conference our SFC.
This year it was in Washington D.C.
with more than 8 000 attendees franchise and family members from over 3 000 routes three days of showcasing the opportunities to enhance the franchise channel to amplify the power of our van space and of our franchisees' time.
And based on the optimism and the confidence of our franchisees it was a strong success.
And by the way orders were up once again beating the record level achieved in 2014.
When we speak of the van channel we also have to consider the very strategic contributions of Snap-on Credit.
Our Financial Services arm helps create opportunities across our organization but especially within the Tools Group and Credit had a strong presence at the SFC.
Supporting franchisees with unique programs enabling sales of those big ticket items which are so essential to franchisee success.
And in the third quarter Financial Services OI was up $5.8 million or 15.4% another period of powerful contribution to the organization.
Let's move to RS&amp;I.
Organic sales were up 8.2%.
The operating margin of 24.6% it increased 130 basis points from 23.3% just last year.
RS&amp;I was charged with expanding our presence to repair shop owners and managers and in the quarter it did just that.
We once again had growth in our businesses providing repair information and diagnostics to independents.
In fact we appear to be gaining traction across many dimensions in automotive in medium and in heavy duty garages serving both OEM dealerships as well as those independent shops all fueled by our expanding product offering.
And one of those great RS&amp;I product came from our diagnostics division demonstrating its continuing innovation.
Our diagnostics team launched its new VERUS Edge handheld an enhanced top-of-the-line offering.
Thinner lighter including important features like five-second ready-to-use capability five-hour battery life a solid state hard drive for increased durability and of course access to our unique integrated SureTrack real-world fixes based on masses of actual repair data all features guided by effective customer connection input.
In the VERUS Edge we believe we have in it a winner advancing the state-of-the-art and addressing the most serious of repair challenges and initial sales of breaking the records and exceeding our expectations.
Also in the third quarter and with the focus on heavy duty shops RS&amp;I introduced the latest generation of its proprietary vehicle interface the Nexiq USB-Link 2 now with Wi-Fi connectivity.
It extends our leading position by adding wireless capabilities to the already successful family of Nexiq heavy duty diagnostics product.
The USB-Link 2 is compatible with heavy duty diagnostic applications for engines transmission ABS and instrument clusters and much more.
It supports virtually every standardized vehicle network protocol and nearly every software application in vehicle sectors like construction agriculture and of course heavy duty truck.
Five times the speed of its predecessors with 16 times the memory the USB-Link 2 is perfect for dealership fleets and truck shops.
It speeds the repair times of these particularly mission critical vehicles and it improves technician productivity.
It's a great upgrade to an already successful product of our RS&amp;I group.
Also in the third quarter our equipment division registered high single-digit growth with strong volume in North America helping to offset the Russian market which is our primary headwind in Eastern Europe.
Overall undercar gains in the U.S.
were quite solid with especially impressive increase – sales increases at our Challenger Lifts division.
Challenger has been a great addition to our Snap-on team and it improved again this quarter and we believe there is much more to come helping RS&amp;I to expand with repair shop owners and managers.
RS&amp;I great new product with demonstrated growth in diagnostics heavy duty and undercar equipment and all of that played out in the third quarter results.
Well that's the highlights of our quarter.
Organic sales up 7.3% gains across all groups clear progress along our runways for growth.
Snap-on Value Creation at the forefront of our activities customer connection leading to innovation creating powerful new products RCI driving improvement and it all shows in the results OI margin to 17.5% up 130 basis points.
It was an encouraging quarter.
Now I'll turn the call over to Aldo.
Aldo? Thanks Nick.
Our third quarter consolidated operating results are summarized on slide six.
Net sales of $821.5 million in the quarter were up 7.3% organically.
On a reported basis net sales including $42.6 million of unfavorable foreign currency increased to 1.9%.
As you know Snap-on has significant international operations and is subject to foreign currency fluctuations.
Largely due to the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar foreign currency movements adversely impacted our Q3 sales comparisons by 570 basis points.
Net sales in the third quarter also included $2.1 million of sales from our July 2015 acquisition of Ecotechnics a designer and manufacturer of automatic vehicle air conditioning maintenance equipment for OEM dealerships and independent repair shops.
Consolidated gross profit of $406.9 million increased $13 million from 2014 levels primarily due to the higher sales and savings from RCI initiatives partially offset by 30 basis points of unfavorable foreign currency effects.
The gross margin of 49.5% in the quarter improved 60 basis points from 48.9% a year ago.
Operating expenses were $263.3 million in both the third quarters of 2015 and 2014.
The operating expense margin of 32% improved 70 basis points from 2014 levels primarily due to benefits from sales volume leverage partially offset by higher pension expense.
No restructuring costs were included in operating earnings in the third quarter of 2015.
Last year we incurred $2 million of such costs.
As a result of these factors operating earnings before Financial Services of $143.6 million in the quarter including $11.9 million or 50 basis points of unfavorable foreign currency effects increased 10% and as a percentage of sales improved 130 basis points to 17.5%.
Financial Services revenue of $61.1 million in the quarter increased 14% from 2014 levels and operating earnings of $43.5 million increased 15.4%.
These increases primarily reflect the continued growth of the Financial Services portfolio.
Consolidated operating earnings of $187.1 million in the quarter including $12.7 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects increased 11.2% and the operating margin of 21.2% improved 160 basis points from 19.6% a year ago.
Our third quarter effective income tax rate of 31.6% compared with 31.8% last year.
Finally net earnings of $116.8 million or $1.98 per diluted share increased to $13.1 million or $0.22 per share representing a 12.5% increase in diluted earnings per share.
Now let's turn to our segment results.
Starting with the Commercial &amp; Industrial or C&amp;I Group on slide 7 sales of $288.5 million in the quarter were up 3.4% organically driven primarily by high single-digit gains in both the segment's European-based hand tools business and Asia-Pacific operations and a double-digit increase in the segment's power tools operations.
These sales increases were partially offset by a mid single-digit decline in sales to customers in critical industries primarily reflecting lower sales to the military and to customers in the oil and gas sector.
Gross profit in the C&amp;I Group of $109.5 million in the quarter decreased $2.3 million from 2014 levels while the gross margin of 37.9% improved 50 basis points principally due to savings from RCI initiatives and lower restructuring costs.
Operating expenses of $68.2 million in the quarter decreased $2.8 million from 2014 levels and the operating expense margin of 23.6% improved 10 basis points from 23.7% last year.
As a result of these factors operating earnings for the C&amp;I segment of $41.3 million including $2.9 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects increased $0.5 million from 2014 levels and the operating margin of 14.3% improved 60 basis points.
Turning now to slide 8.
Third quarter sales on the Snap-on Tools Group of $380.6 million increased 11% organically reflecting continued double-digit gains in both the company's U.S.
and international franchise operations.
Gross profit of $166.5 million in the quarter increased $11.7 million from 2014 levels and the gross margin of 43.8% improved 20 basis points.
Benefits from the higher sales and savings from RCI initiatives were largely offset by 110 basis points of unfavorable foreign currency effects.
Operating expenses of $110.2 million in the quarter increased $4.9 million from 2014 levels and the operating expense margin of 29% improved 70 basis points principally due to sales volume leverage.
As a result of these factors operating earnings for the Snap-on Tools Group of $56.3 million increased $6.8 million and the operating margin of 14.8% improved 90 basis points including $6.8 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects.
Turning to the Repair Systems &amp; Information or RS&amp;I Group shown on slide 9.
Sales of $282.9 million in the quarter increased 8.2% organically.
The organic sales increase primarily reflects a double-digit gain in sales to OEM dealerships a high single-digit increase in sales of undercar equipment and a mid single-digit gain in sales of diagnostics and repair information products through independent repair shop owners and managers.
Gross profit of $130.9 million increased $3.6 million over 2014 levels.
Gross margin of 46.3% in the quarter decreased 60 basis points from 46.9% last year primarily due to a shift in sales that included higher volumes of lower gross margin products including increased essential tool and micellization sales to OEM dealerships partially offset by lower restructuring cost.
Operating expenses of $61.2 million in the quarter decreased $2.8 million from 2014 levels.
The operating expense margin of 21.7% improved 190 basis points mostly due to sales volume leverage including benefits from the sales shift noted above.
Third quarter operating earnings for the RS&amp;I Group of $69.7 million including $2.2 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects increased $6.4 million from prior year levels and the operating margin of 24.6% improved 130 basis points.
Now turning to slide 10.
In the third quarter operating earnings from Financial Services of $43.5 million on revenue of $61.1 million compared with operating earnings of $37.7 million on revenue of $53.6 million last year.
The average yield on finance receivables of 17.9% in the quarter compared with 17.6% last year and the average yield on contract receivables was 9.5% in both years.
Originations of $257.6 million increased 16.2% from 2014 levels.
Moving to slide 11 as of quarter end our balance sheet includes $1.53 billion of gross financing receivables including $1.33 billion from our U.S.
Snap-on credit operation.
Approximately 80% of our U.S.
financing portfolio relates to extended credit loans to technicians.
During the quarter our worldwide finance portfolio grew approximately $62 million.
As for finance portfolio losses and delinquency trends these continue to be in line with our expectations.
Now turning to slide 12.
Cash provided by operations of $113.7 million in the quarter increased $25.7 million from comparable 2014 levels primarily reflecting higher net earnings in 2015 and net changes in operating assets and liabilities.
Net cash used by investing activities of $86.9 million included $55.9 million to fund a net increase in finance receivables.
Third quarter capital expenditures of $18.5 million in 2015 compared to $22.3 million last year.
Cash used in investing activities in the quarter also included $13.1 million for the acquisition of Ecotechnics.
Turning to slide 13 days sales outstanding for trade receivables was 61 days at both quarter end and 2014 year end.
Inventories increased $52.2 million from 2014 year end levels primarily to support continued higher customer demand and new product introductions as well as inventories related to the Ecotechnics acquisition.
On a trailing 12 month basis inventory turns of $3.4 million compared with 3.6 turns a year ago.
Our quarter end cash position of $119.2 million decreased $13.7 million from 2014 year end levels.
The net decrease includes the impact of funding $629.2 million of new finance receivables the repurchase of 670 000 shares for $101.6 million dividend payments of $92.5 million and capital expenditures of $64.3 million.
These cash decreases were largely offset by $476.6 million of cash from collections of finance receivables $352.1 million of cash from operations net of $30 million of discretionary cash contribution to the company's domestic pension plans and $39.7 million of cash proceeds from stock purchase and option plan exercises.
Our net debt to capital ratio of 25.7% compared with 26.3% at 2014 year end.
In addition to our $119.2 million of cash and expected cash flow from operations we have more than $700 million in available credit facilities and our current short-term credit ratings allow us access to the commercial paper markets.
At quarter end we had $45.2 million of commercial paper borrowings outstanding.
This concludes my remarks on our third quarter performance.
I'll now briefly review a few outlook items for the balance of 2015.
We anticipate that capital expenditures in 2015 will be in the range of $80 million to $85 million of which $64.3 million was incurred through the end of the third quarter.
We continue to expect our 2015 full year effective income tax rate will be at or below our 2014 full year rate of 32.1%.
Now I'll turn the call over to Nick for his closing thoughts.
Nick? Thanks Aldo.
Snap-on third quarter sales up organically 7.3% against some significant headwinds.
Of course as we say often there will always be headwinds always be challenges.
But in the midst of that we believe our runways for growth are wide with abundant opportunities and you can see it in the operating groups.
C&amp;I in the center of the turbulence sales up 3.4% profits up 60 basis points.
RS&amp;I wielding software and hardware with repair shop owner and managers activity rising 8.2% and OI margin of 24.6% up 130 basis points.
Tools an established and storied business reaching higher capturing more customers.
Sales up 11% and a greater than 6% increase in 21 of the last 22 quarters.
OI margin up 90 basis points despite 120 basis points of unfavorable currency.
And beside that growth we see the effects of Snap-on value creation paving our runways for improving helping to drive our opco margin to 17.5% up 130 basis points including 50 basis points of currency headwinds.
And rolling all together with financial services our EPS was $1.98 up 12.5%.
We believe that the third quarter results extending our positive trends continuing confirmation of the Snap-on possibilities for both growth and for improvement.
And we believe as demonstrated this past quarter we can continue on those positive runways as we proceed forward.
Now before I turn the call over to the operator for questions I think it's appropriate to speak to our franchisees and associates.
I know many of you are listening in again.
The encouraging results of the third quarter and our positive trends are a direct reflection of your capability and your effort.
For the gains you've achieved you have my congratulations.
And for your commitment and your extraordinary contribution to our team you have my thanks.
Now I'll turn the call over to the operator.
Operator? Thank you.
We'll take our first question from Bret Jordan with Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
A question on RS&amp;I you mentioned specific strength in undercar and service chain reported this morning it had an 11% comp in alignment.
Is there something structurally going on in that space driving growth or is yours tied to new product introduction? This row (00:32:51) deterioration is a secular shift or...? I think structurally – not something happened and I don't think this particular quarter.
But I think structurally the whole automotive repair business is – got a nice tailwind in terms of changes in vehicles.
And in fact as you have more vehicles that want to do more things automatically self-driving and so on.
The precision of calibration becomes more and more important and therefore the more accuracy and speed – more accuracy – things like alignment become more important and therefore the speed of that alignment becomes important therefore the need for new products.
And so I think it's nice times for automotive repair in general and in particular for undercar equipment.
And I think...
And I guess...
...ours being pushed by both at tailwind and some nice new product that's in place as well.
Okay.
And I guess on that speed of change in technology – is sort of the next question the software upgrade cycle as you were looking in the handheld units and replacing software is that accelerating at all or is the new code basically at the same cadence? I think it's expanding.
I think we're finding – I don't know if we're introducing any faster necessarily upgrades but I think the upgrades are more attractive.
You hear me talk about SureTrack and if I had a little more time to talk about VERUS Edge I would talk about the fact that it has technical service bulletins involved.
And so those products are more attractive and they're more liberating and they're more productivity advancing to customers and so that's driving part of that.
You can see it.
You can see – and I'm sure you've looked at the trends and you can see that I think the numbers are something like somewhere under 50% of cars – we today require in all garages require diagnostics repairs and all garages require diagnostics units but something like 7 of 10 repairs in new cars require diagnostics units.
So you see a demand for that.
And our software is the best available.
One of the things you see in our – one of the things we're really excited about in our business when we did independent surveys of technician preferences 63% said they preferred Snap-on diagnostics.
Number two was 7%.
Okay.
Does it help? Thanks.
And one question I guess specifically to C&amp;I on the U.S.
military you talked about it being particularly weak.
When they are weak are they buying less premium product or not buying at all? I mean are they going to Harbor Freight for what they would have purchased for you or did they just step out? No.
No.
I don't think they are buying that stuff.
I'm not sure but I'm pretty sure that they are not buying the stuff because you know when the .50 caliber bullets are flying over head I think this is the ultimate critical application and I don't think anybody wants anybody being disadvantaged under those circumstances.
So what really has happened by and large is the fact that there's uncertainty in where to deploy budget around.
We've seen it before.
Actually C&amp;I if you go back and look at the late – in late 2013 the critical industries the critical industries again was bedeviled by a reduction associated with the military and that was directly associated with the word as sequestration.
And so you're starting to see those kinds of things now.
In Washington people are talking about government shutdowns and so on and it's making the military nervous and they are spending less.
We feel we're pretty well positioned though to take full advantage when they are ready to spend.
Okay.
Great.
So it's not trading down.
It's just not spending.
No.
No.
Not any significant way.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Sure.
Our next question comes from Liam Burke with Wunderlich.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning Nick.
Good morning Aldo.
Good morning Liam.
How are you? Inc.</span></strong> Good.
Thank you.
Nick you talked about railroad as being an interesting growth segment in C&amp;I.
Are there any other areas that saw particular strength during the quarter in the C&amp;I? Yeah.
Look we were – amazingly we're up pretty well in mining.
Like I said we're still starting to penetrate these things.
So you can't – we're finding that we're effective sometimes by – somewhat by the environment but not – we can overcome it at times and mining was one of those.
Heavy truck was up fairly well in the quarter.
So that was a good entry.
General if you just look at general production the kinds of stuff the things that are associated with grinders and so on we had that kind of thing.
So I mean we had some fairly reasonable positive points the U.S.
aviation the aviation in U.S.
was okay that kind of thing.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So we had some positives.
And we had oil and gas international aviation and the military which were negative.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And with your van channel being supported now with Rock N' Roll vans are you seeing any step up in average ticket item per franchisee during the quarter? No.
Big ticket was still reasonably strong but I think we're not seeing any particular if the question is associated with the rise in the size of the – let's say the purchases the size of the purchases I would say no in the quarter necessarily not anything particularly big in the quarter.
Nothing that would change the trend.
We're still seeing a robust demand though for things like tool storage and of course our diagnostic units and other things that we would roll into big ticket.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you Nick.
Sure.
Our next question comes from Gary Prestopino with Barrington.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Gary.
Inc.</span></strong> Couple of the questions have been answered particularly on industrial.
But let me just ask in terms of seeing pretty good growth year-over-year in the credit portfolio is that still indicative of that there is a healthy appetite for the tool boxes bigger ticket items? Yeah there's a healthy – I think there's a healthy attitude generally it directly reflects the motion of the Tools Group.
In general if you look back at originations and look at Tools Group growth over the last three quarters they're sort of the same so that's pretty much what's driving it.
I think it's not just tool boxes though you get – you will get things like – you get things like big diagnostics like the VERUS Edge.
I mean the new VERUS Edge is a product that will run in several thousands of dollars and that can be financed on that kind of things.
So you will see a number of things like that.
So it's not just tool boxes but it is – the big ticket items were I think this quarter just slightly below somewhat below the Tools Group in general but over three quarters four quarters has been better than the Tools Group.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the Rock N' Roll vans and the techno vans are you at capacity where you want to be right now in the U.S.? I don't know.
I think Rock N' Roll cab I think we added like maybe like five in the last quarter in the techno vans and we didn't add any Rock N' Roll cabs.
Rock N' Roll cabs have been solid for some time.
Having said – been the same number for some time but you know I wouldn't necessarily sign up to the idea that I wouldn't add more going forward.
Rock N' Roll cabs were introduced somewhere in 2011.
And I have to tell you Gary we've been learning about how to use them better and how effective they are and where they're most effective and how to do that each quarter.
But for now they're pretty much where they're going to be.
The techno is something else.
So we've added quite a few.
I think actually year-over-year for techno we've added 21 techno vans and I think we'll be probably trying to see how that 21 plays out for a little while and then we'll make a decision whether we need more or not going forward.
But it's a mistake to think that tool storage sales is directly proportional to the number of Rock N' Roll cabs that's not true.
What we found is they've gotten more and more and more productive more and more liberating every time every quarter and same thing for techno vans.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Well it basically expands your store for selling space right? Correct it does.
But then we find out how to – then actually what we find out is how to amplify the Rock N' Roll space.
I mean it's kind of a multilayered thing.
It does help that though.
I mean in one sense it expands on a time-sharing basis the space but the effect of that space I would say over the four years we've had it the ones that we installed first are helping a lot more than they did when they first occurred.
Inc.</span></strong> And last question.
Is this just the U.S.
phenomenon or is this in other countries where mechanics own the tools that you have these kind of vans? It's in other countries.
I mean I think I guess we have seven international Rock N' Roll cabs and so we've used them in different places things like the UK in Canada and some in Australia.
And we've just started to do that for the techno vans.
So it's a phenomenon that can work in other places.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Sure.
Our next question comes from David Leiker with Baird.
Your line is now open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning everyone.
Good morning David.
Good morning.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> So a couple of things back on C&amp;I.
That's a business; you've got three or four different buckets of businesses within there.
We do.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Tends to be a little bit lumpy quarter-to-quarter.
It's kind of a strange question but is there any way or anything that we from the outside should look at to try and get a better handle on what the quarter-to-quarter trends are going to be there? I don't really have – the thing is that – the truth is sure.
What we know is the industry problems the economic environments create an overhang.
And then in places like for us and you see it in oil and gas this time you can see it in mining although mining was a contributory for us.
So it's very difficult to look at any macro and say it's going to affect us.
All you can say is look the general macro is going to create an overhang.
How well we do in offsetting it is another question but we do have the ability to offset it from time to time.
Like in this quarter we felt we feel when we look at Industrial when we look at critical industries we feel we can see the trajectory of upward trends even though it was a tepid quarter it was a drag on us this time because we can see the gains in railroad in places like mining and heavy duty.
So we can see the proof-of-concept working through.
It's hard for us to give you any guidance on that.
In Asia Pacific for example the turbulence around Asia Pacific did really create an overhang for us but we succeeded in some markets and had some difficulty in others.
Our operations and our sales in both those markets ended up being a growth situation.
In Europe it seems like and I think what's worked for us in Europe is we came from such a low position.
We kept investing.
We create new product that we're growing even as the market is tepid.
So it's kind of a cocktail of things that I can't quite give you any particular macro on which to trend.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah I figured that...
All I can tell you is I think we feel progress in each of those places.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah I just figured that was the answer.
On Asia Pacific...
Yeah yeah.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> ...that business over the years you've continued to see strong growth on the automotive equipment side of that business.
What's the makeup of that revenue today between equipment versus the critical industries versus other pieces? I don't really have the percentages for you.
I will say that you're right in saying that equipment is probably the biggest piece of that and then you've got cutting tools which are another piece of it which are primarily Industrial based.
Industrial based tools are another piece and then what's after that it would be I'd say the critical – we call them – in that world (00:46:10) we call them premium tools like the Snap-on tools sold into the super-premium applications like Thai Airways and things like that.
We actually had a pretty good quarter with those in places like Singapore and Hong Kong.
And the equipment actually was one of the things that drove us into Vietnam.
We're actually pretty pleased about Vietnam.
I've been waiting for Vietnam to give us some daylight for some time and this is the quarter which it kind of worked.
So it was an encouraging event.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
And then one last item here on margins.
You guys did a great job of continuing to drive value and drive margins with the RCI activity and the focus on execution.
Are you doing anything beyond what you normally do cost cutting or pulling back on discretionary spending or anything along those lines belt tightening with some of the uncertainties going on around the world? No.
We're not doing anything like that.
I mean I suppose it's kind of dumb thing for a guy like me to say that but the fact our – we – okay people here are shaking their heads yes that is dumb.
But okay.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> So am I.
It's true we believe in our runways for growth and we continue to invest in them.
The profit improvements you are seeing the 130 basis points have nothing to do with restriction nothing.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Because we don't see it that way.
Of course there are headwinds and they might impact us and I never said we would keep going marching upward every quarter.
It's almost impossible for anybody to do that although we have.
And so we just believe in the future of extending the critical industries enhancing the van channel expanding with repair shop owners and in emerging markets so we keep investing in it.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Perfect great.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
Our next question comes from David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
Your line is now open.
Yeah.
Good morning everyone.
And Nick congratulations on a great quarter.
Thanks.
Let me start off with just continuing on the point we were just discussing and you talked about the fact that there wasn't a lot of belt tightening in this but then you cite RCI progress in each of the individual segments.
So let me reconcile this.
It seems as though there has been some cost cutting.
I'm looking specifically at the C&amp;I segment where you had a negative 5% incremental margin.
In other words revenues were down but EBIT was up.
And I know you've said repeatedly in the past that your RCI would allow you to grow margins in a flat revenue environment.
Help me understand the answer you just gave to the last question versus these points.
Sure.
First of all first of all we view -- you may not like this either -- but we view as-reported sales as arithmetic.
Organic sales are up for us so the bits and the bytes and the metal and the mechanisms we sell more of that we're happy.
We're encouraged by that.
So even in C&amp;I which was down that 3.4% organic is what we follow because that looks to us to be customer gain.
That's one.
Two is is that what you see in this situation is when I'm talking about RCI I'm talking about things like being able to make the product less expensively.
We reduce the set-up times in the factory which is a big deal for us.
We find ways through customer connection and our innovation process to wield new technologies that allow us to develop new product cheaper.
Remember in C&amp;I for example last year in aviation we brought – last year in oil and gas I think we – for heavy truck let's say we brought out 859 new products and aviation was 996.
And one of the things that allows us to make to do that better is new technology like 3D printing and finite element analysis and so on.
And that cuts cost in the design cycle and allows us to bring out those new products with lower cost than before.
Those are the kinds of things we do.
Okay.
And even if we have – so even if we have lower as reported revenues our cost gets driven down because of some of that.
And it doesn't happen every quarter if it happens – if I reduce the cost of one particular product well maybe that product sells well this quarter and I get some good benefit out of it.
That may not sell so well next quarter and I don't quite get the quote at the same benefit.
Okay.
I appreciate that clarification.
Okay.
Yeah I appreciate the clarification.
Thanks.
On the originations it's up 16%.
Once again it's kind of an up 9% number last quarter.
Is that really just timing? Yeah it's pretty much.
Yeah there's a lot of timing flowing through.
Remember that originations have to do with the franchisees selling the products.
Right.
Right.
And you also got an SFC that flows through this.
So in originations are things like loans that go through for the franchisees themselves like van loans and things like that that occur.
And so there's that noise in van originations in the month.
So when we have a particularly great SFC that can distort that as well.
But when you step back and you look at the trend of everything it really is – there is a lot of noise from quarter-to-quarter.
You've kind of got to look back.
And if you look at three quarters you'll see it's pretty close to the same between Tools Group growth and originations pretty close to the same and if you say that Tools Group will pick a group faster it makes sense.
Okay.
Military and oil and gas is there any way you can size that up for us as a percentage of critical industries...
Okay.
(00:51:55).
I'll try this – how about this one.
We mentioned like five segments six segments in critical industries and the military is a big one it's the biggest because we entered there first because it made sense.
Just as I said before when the bullets are flying overhead -- I can assure you this from personal experience when the bullets are flying overhead people kind of want to make sure things work.
And so we figured it was the most critical of industries.
We invested in it and it (00:52:16) warrants bigger.
So if you take our revenues which is somewhere north of $450 million or something like that let's say and you divide them by six and you take one of the bigger ones that would be the military.
And oil and gas would be more in the middle some place.
So that helps.
I think that should give you some ballpark view of this.
You got one big guy who is down strong double digits can put a little over hang on you.
Okay.
Let me just ask one last question just relating to the call here and just kind of a big picture high level question but if you could just walk us through with some quick comments on each of the four segments.
You just discussed recessionary environment how much downside would you expect in revenues? And also I guess with all the progress in RCI initiatives and the new product introductions in the much richer portfolio how much better if at all would margins be in the trough than what we saw last time around? Last time around we started at 12% and went to 10%.
The 12.3% if I remember 2008 the OI percentage was like 12.3% and it went to 9.9%.
Yeah.
And that was – the 9.9% was I would say artificially depressed by the fact that we had the credit company in transition somewhat not huge but that's a factor there a little bit.
And so you can say all right it impacted some but maybe not much but okay we had that transition going on in Tools Group and so on maybe arithmetically it didn't affect.
But down there we had some turbulence.
And so then the big difference there now is we're starting at 17.5% all right.
So I mean I wouldn't expect it to be worse than that duration.
The other factor I'd offer is this is I believe – two factors.
One is I believe we are stronger in our market positions therefore even more resistant number one.
Number two – number three and this is harder to predict.
Last time our customer base which was principally the – 70% of the customer base the automotive repair technician I spent a lot of time talking about the fact that they were cash rich and confidence poor they were getting up every day and reading bad news for breakfast.
It was the worst recession of our lifetime.
People were talking about putting dollars in mattresses.
Well I'm not sure – and so therefore they didn't buy big ticket items even though they had a lot of cash.
That would happen again but I'm not sure it'd be the same extent.
I don't know.
That's a judgment call of course.
And one more experience at RCI than we were.
And the other thing is we're just better at RCI and so we probably step that up.
If you can't you only have 24 hours in a day so if you can't – if you think the prospects for growth are less you turn more toward improvement.
That's really helpful.
Thanks a lot.
Sure.
Our next question comes from Tom Hayes with Northcoast Research.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just as it relates to the Tools Group certainly positive results from both the domestic and international businesses.
Nick I was wondering if you could maybe give a little additional color in regards to the contribution for the international franchise business in the Tools Group? The international franchise business is about is also up double-digits.
The U.S.
is up strong double-digits the U.S.
is up the international is up just about the same.
I would say that in order the strength Australia and UK were actually up more than the U.S.
Canada was up somewhat less so you put those together in a cocktail and I think it all came to about the same as the U.S.
Okay.
And then I guess looking a little bit of bigger picture I think you've kind of tested on some components so far today.
Clearly an opportunity for you is to get a larger percentage of the shop related spending.
Just what are your thoughts on where you are on the penetration rates when you look at complete shop spending and some of your initiatives to expand that? Well let's look at it this way.
I think I would say that we are less than half of where we are in terms of our position with tools.
And so if you think of it that way yes people respect our brand shop owners respect our brand as much as technicians.
So I would view that as kind of an – view of the opportunity.
We think we have runway in the tools itself for the technicians and we're well behind that in terms of shop penetration.
So I think we've got quite a bit of runway there.
I would say if you want to use baseball terms we're in the third or fourth inning.
Great.
Thank you.
And it appears we have no further questions at this time.
I'll turn it back to Leslie Kratcoski for any closing remarks.
Thanks everyone for joining us this morning.
A replay and transcript of the call will be available shortly on our website.
And as always we thank you for your interest in Snap-on.
Good day.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you and have a great day.
Please stand by.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's Snap-on Incorporated 2015 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Results Conference.
Just as a reminder today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to your host for today Leslie Kratcoski.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Sarah and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to review Snap-on's fourth quarter results which are detailed in our press release issued earlier this morning.
We have on the call today Nick Pinchuk Snap-on's Chief Executive Officer; and Aldo Pagliari Snap-on's Chief Financial Officer.
Nick will kick off our call this morning with his perspective on our performance.
Aldo will then provide a more detailed review of our financial results.
After Nick provides closing thoughts we'll take your questions.
As usual we've provided slides to supplement our discussion.
These slides can be accessed under the Downloads tab in the webcast viewer as well as on our website under Investor Information.
These slides will be archived on our website along with the transcript of today's call.
Any statements made during this call relative to management's expectations estimates or beliefs or otherwise state management's or the company's outlook plans or projections are forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those made in such statements.
Additional information and the factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are contained in our SEC filings.
With that said I'll now turn the call over to Nick Pinchuk.
Nick? Thanks Leslie.
Good morning everybody.
I'll start with the highlights of our fourth quarter and our year.
As usual I'll give you my perspective on the results on the environment and on our progress.
And after that Aldo will move into a more detailed review of the financials The Snap-on fourth quarter; organic sales up and profits well above last year.
The period continued our positive trajectory of performance.
Again this quarter we had opportunities and we had headwinds.
We took advantage of those opportunities and we overcame the headwinds.
Organic sales grew 3.1%.
If we include the impact of $33.2 million of unfavorable foreign currency translation overall sales in the quarter were $851.7 million a small decrease from last year.
Our EPS was $2.22 up 12.7% from $1.97 in 2014.
And that rise reflects an OpCo operating margin of 19.1% an increase of 220 basis points.
Financial service earnings of $45 million in the quarter were also up leading to a consolidated operating margin including both financial services and OpCo of 22.7% an improvement of 230 basis points.
The results were encouraging.
Our markets the automotive repair-related segments they continue to be favorable.
Changing technologies and aging vehicles are requiring new tools and more repairs.
Our Tools Group and our Repair Systems &amp; Information or the RS&amp;I Group took advantage of those opportunities and grew across our franchise network and with repair shop owners and managers.
Now for our Commercial &amp; Industrial Group or our C&amp;I Group markets were mixed headwinds a bit more pronounced in the quarter impacted by few down sectors and macro economically challenged geographies leading to organic volume just under 2014.
A couple of those difficult environments were natural resources and the U.S.
military both substantially lower in the fourth quarter.
Oil and gas a market we've identified as a long-term strategic growth opportunity for us and we continue to see it that way.
But in the quarter we experienced similar issues to those businesses with more prominent exposure in that arena and we saw a deep decline.
The military sales: ongoing troop drawdown's and budget restraints led to a substantial year-over-year drop.
But we continue to maintain our presence in that segment and we're poised to increase our position when the variability subsides.
C&amp;I's also the most international of businesses and was also challenged in the quarter by economic turbulence across the globe and some of the European markets and in parts of Asia Pacific.
That said C&amp;I progressed through the quarterly headwinds taking advantage of the opportunities in critical industries like aviation and in national markets like Japan and Germany and Mexico and in emerging markets like India and Indonesia.
So overall our businesses I would characterize – overall across our businesses I would characterize our markets as mixed.
We have tailwinds in automotive repair and we have pockets of turbulence in some afflicted critical industries and in challenged geographies.
Having said that we believe that our businesses are well-positioned to capitalize on the possibilities opportunities that do exist along our runways for growth enhancing the van network expanding with Snap-on's presence with repair shop owners and managers extending into critical industries and building in emerging markets.
These are the strategic initiatives we see as decisive for our future.
And we'll continue to strengthen our position along those runways as we go forward.
And also looking ahead we also see clear runways for improvement.
Snap-on Value Creation processes; safety quality customer connection innovation rapid continuous improvement or RCI driving significant progress and our fourth quarter and our full year results confirm those ongoing improvement possibilities.
Let's speak about the full year.
Snap-on's EPS in 2015 was $8.10 an increase of 13.4%.
Driving those earnings was an OpCo earnings margin of 17.7% up 140 basis points for the full year.
And when we include the income from financial services of $170.2 million which rose $21.1 million the consolidated operating margin for the corporation in the year was 21.3% up 170 basis points.
That performance came on sales for the year of $3.4 billion reflecting a 7.1% organic increase broad growth.
Tools Group up 10.9%; RS&amp;I increasing 4.9%; C&amp;I rising 5.8% all performances in the year reflecting significant advances down our runways for growth and for improvement.
Now let's move to the groups and their fourth quarter results.
C&amp;I: sales were down in the period 5.5% from 2014 impacted by 490 basis points of unfavorable currency.
Organic sales were slightly lower than last year with varied results across the group gains by SNA Europe our European hand tools business and the power tools operation and decreases at the Industrial division.
From an earnings perspective C&amp;I operating income was $41.9 million.
That represents an operating margin of 14.9% a rise of 130 basis points.
Encouragingly SNA Europe posted a sales increase again in the midst of significant European headwinds continuing its progress now nine quarters in a row of year-over-year growth and the profits rising even higher now up 11 straight quarters reflecting RCI and Snap-on Value Creation new products and new processes; positive trends in some difficult geographies.
Also in C&amp;I our power tools division advanced in the period bolstered by an array of new products.
Innovations like our CDR8815 18V Lithium Cordless Drill launched in the quarter.
It's our latest in the successful line of cordless tools; an oversized variable speed trigger less finger stress and more accurate torque control; a heavy-duty gearbox reducing operating wobble and run-out important for power tools.
A precision single sleeve keyless chuck with carbide jaw increasing grip and torque and enabling one-handed bit changes; a nice time saver for professionals.
And all those features contained in a powerful but compact design.
With the CDR8815 we believe we have a winner and the early results confirm it.
Now the Industrial division had weaker sales in the quarter as we mentioned and there were difficulties in military and oil and gas.
That said we've maintained our growth strategies of extending in critical industries even during this turbulence.
We remain committed to ongoing advancements made possible by Snap-on Value Creation especially in customer connection and innovation authoring new products specifically aimed at customers facing critical challenges.
One of those new products designed for the natural resource sector is the Snap-on gas meter wrench custom engineered for a safer and more efficient service of gas meters rugged and lightweight with an aviation-grade aluminum body five interchangeable heads for maximum versatility and a 19-inch handle to more easily generate the full range of force required.
Over 500 000 gas meters are replaced annually in New York City area alone and 20% to 30% of all injuries in the utility sector are attributed to the gas meter service.
This innovative new Snap-on wrench was guided by customer connection direct observation of the work and it includes an improved ergonomic design for better grip and less hand stress.
And of course it incorporates our Snap-on Flank Drive wrenching system eliminating slippage and requiring less force to complete the job.
It's more versatile.
It ends the need for a technician to carry a heavy bag of assorted pipe wrenches and it's safer and more effective.
We believe the Snap-on gas meter wrench will be a big seller; a must-have for service technicians throughout the power generation industry.
It's just another example another example of customer connection and innovation strengthening the C&amp;I position in critical industries.
Now on to the Tools Group; an 8.7% rise in organic sales; an encouraging increase again this quarter.
The operating earnings of $71.9 million represented a margin rate of 17.5% up 100 basis points from last year.
And that gain included a 70-basis point impact from negative currency.
We speak quite a bit about the runways for coherent growth.
Strategic avenues of sales advancement and clearly large among those opportunities is enhancing the franchise network.
The Tools Group once again demonstrated significant progress along that runway.
You can see it vividly in the financial numbers for the quarter and for the full year and it's evident in the health metrics we monitor each period whether it's franchise profitability turnover or delinquencies.
The measures of franchise health are all trending upward.
And that speaks to the growing strength and to the widening advantage the widening advantage of our band network in the robust vehicle repair arena.
But beyond the numbers there's qualitative but clearly observable evidence of forward momentum.
I can tell you that the franchisees at our fourth quarter National Franchise Advisory Council and more recently at the 2016 kickoff events held earlier this month demonstrated the enthusiasm and confirmed the optimism that has marked the Tools Group from route to route for some time now.
And there's more evidence.
We continue to be recognized as a franchise of choice.
Again this year Snap-on ranked among the top 25 in Entrepreneurs Magazine's List of Top 500 Franchises.
And the Franchise Business Review which collects franchisee satisfaction feedback listed Snap-on as a Top 50 Franchise in its latest ranking marking the ninth consecutive year we received that award.
It also goes without saying that the Tools Group's performance would not have been possible without the benefits of Snap-on Value Creation particularly innovation and customer connection creating an assortment of exciting new products born from our unique customer interactions.
And for the sixth straight year the Tools Group increased this number of hit products million dollar sellers developed from that direct customer observation from our onsite experience in the workplace.
Let's consider our new SPBS series of striking prybars; an upgrade in performance in durability and most importantly in safety.
These next-generation tools include a precision ground blade with angle design for maximum lift.
It also features a new grip material which performs in extremely low temperatures in important place like Chicago today and has greater resistance to common shop chemicals.
And it features a new ergonomic handle that not only offers a more comfortable grip but the flared design provides technician hands greatly improved protection from off-center hits.
Not a small feature.
It's an exceptional design made possible from customer connection and it represents progress even in a long established product line.
Finally I'd be missing a huge contributor to our van channel and a major strategic advantage if I didn't mention Snap-on Credit financing the network's big ticket items.
And as you would expect the Credit operation was well represented at our kickoff meetings – at our recent kickoff meetings held in the first part of the year.
And they were working to increase the power of Credit and making our finance operations an even greater strategic contributor.
Snap-on is wielding its tools network more effectively every day.
And the support of our Credit company is a major element in that progress.
Moving to RS&amp;I.
Sales in the fourth quarter were $280.6 million with organic gains of 2.2% reflecting a rise in diagnostics and repair information products to independent repair shop owners and managers a low single digit increase to OEM dealerships and essentially flat sales of undercar equipment.
Operating earnings of $72.1 million rose $6.9 million.
And the OI margin it was 25.7% up 260 basis points from last year's 23.1% with RCI paving the way.
RC&amp;I advanced in the quarter expanding with repair shop owners and managers but particularly with the independents.
Mitchell 1 offers independent shops leading shop management software innovative marketing services to gain more repair customers and the most comprehensive and capable repair information anywhere.
And based on customer connection it has thousands of customer contexts every year.
Mitchell 1 keeps improving its advantage adding repair information for new vehicles improving the ease of navigating its ProDemand system building on the millions of actual repair events it already catalogs making its unique SureTrack big data repair base even more powerful and customers shop owners and managers have taken notice.
The quarter saw more fleet placements more attention to industry shows like APEC and more penetration of shops across the country.
From our diagnostics division also selling to independents; another solid quarter including positive results from our newest handheld unit the VERUS Edge.
I mentioned it last quarter; it was in the midst of its introduction while the enthusiasm continued from our customers and from our franchisees.
It's our most successful launch.
Customer satisfaction is high and we regularly receive testimonials when I go out and visit with franchisees and customers and technicians.
We receive testimonials like the VERUS Edge it helps my shop fix cars faster and be more profitable.
VERUS Edge is quite a product; faster easier smarter.
Technical service bulletins at hand comprehensive diagnostics and the power of SureTrack big repair data.
Simply the best handheld in vehicle repair and is another winner with independent shops it's clear.
And speaking of diagnostics this time in the heavy truck area we continue to expand our coverage.
More engines more power train combinations.
The PRO-LINK Ultra already the go-to diagnostics in truck shops across the nation got stronger again.
Finally in the period RSI Equipment Division recorded essentially flat activity impacted particularly by Eastern Europe.
That said we keep driving to expand our position in equipment with repair shops.
With innovative new products like the B1200P wheel balancer system designed for more sophisticated independent shops with specialty or a dealer-like operation.
A series of customer connection with those locations help us highlight the need for features like fast run-out measurement automatic data entry via scanners and Smart Sonar a pin-point laser light for positioning the adhesive weights on the wheel and a highly intuitive and rapid touch screen interface.
The B1200; faster and more accurate.
It's now available in European markets and the North American introduction is scheduled for later this year.
So that's RS&amp;I; using Snap-on Value Creation authoring innovative new products capturing opportunities and securing an expanded presence with shop owners and managers.
And that's our fourth quarter; organic sales rising 3.1%; EPS $2.22 in the quarter up 12.7% against the $0.11 of unfavorable currency; progress along our runways for coherent growth; and clear advancements down our runways for improvement; safety quality customer connection innovation and rapid continuous improvement driving a 19.1% operating margin 220 basis points higher than last year.
It was an encouraging quarter.
Now I'll turn the call over to Aldo.
Thanks Nick.
Our fourth quarter consolidated operating results are summarized on slide six.
Net sales of $851.7 million in the quarter were up 3.1% organically reflecting increases in our businesses serving automotive repair notably the Snap-on Tools Group as well as our diagnostics and repair information business partially offset by some headwinds in our C&amp;I segment.
On a reported basis net sales which included $33.2 million of unfavorable foreign currency translation decreased $5.7 million or 0.7% from 2014 levels.
As you know Snap-on has significant international operations and is subject to foreign currency fluctuations.
Largely due to the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar foreign currency movements adversely impacted our Q4 sales comparisons by 400 basis points.
Consolidated gross margin of 48.4% in the quarter improved 40 basis points primarily due to higher organic sales and savings from RCI initiatives partially offset by 20 basis points of unfavorable foreign currency effects.
Operating expenses of $250 million yielded an operating expense margin of 29.3% in the quarter an improvement of 180 basis points from last year primarily due to organic sales volume leverage and savings from RCI initiatives as well as lower performance-based and stock-based compensation expenses.
No restructuring costs were incurred in the quarter.
We incurred $1.1 million of such costs in the fourth quarter of last year.
As a result of these factors operating earnings before financial services of $162.3 million in the quarter including $9.2 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects increased 11.8% as compared to the prior year and as a percentage of sales improved 220 basis points to 19.1%.
Financial services revenues of $63.1 million in the quarter increased 6.2% from 2014 levels and operating earnings of $45 million increased 6.6%.
These increases primarily reflect the continued growth of the financial services portfolio.
Consolidated operating earnings of $207.3 million in the quarter including $9.9 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects increased 10.6%.
And the operating margin of 22.7% improved 230 basis points from 20.4% a year ago.
Our fourth quarter effective income tax rate of 31.1% compared to 32.1% last year.
Finally net earnings in the quarter of $131.4 million or $2.22 per diluted share increased $15.2 million or $0.25 per share from 2014 levels representing a 12.7% increase in diluted earnings per share.
Now let's turn to our segment results.
Starting with the Commercial &amp; Industrial or C&amp;I Group on slide seven sales of $281.8 million in the quarter decreased 0.6% organically primarily due to a high single digit decline in sales to customers in critical industries largely reflecting deep declines in sales to the military and to customers in the oil and gas sector.
These organic sales declines were partially offset by a low single digit gain in the segment's European-based hand tools business and a double digit increase in the segment's power tool operation.
Gross profit in the C&amp;I Group was $107.6 million in the quarter.
The gross margin of 38.2% increased 20 basis points as savings from RCI initiatives and lower restructuring costs were partially offset by a shift in sales that included lower volumes of higher gross margin sales to customers in critical industries and an increase in lower gross margin sales from the power tool operations.
Operating expenses of $65.7 million in the quarter compared to $72.9 million last year.
The operating expense margin of 23.3% improved 110 basis points primarily due to a 70-basis point gain from the sale of a former manufacturing facility as well as benefits from the sales shift already mentioned.
As a result of these factors operating earnings for the C&amp;I segment of $41.9 million including $1.5 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects increased 3.5% from 2014 levels and the operating margin of 14.9% improved 130 basis points.
Turning now to slide eight fourth quarter sales in the Snap-on Tools Group of $411.2 million increased 8.7% organically reflecting continued strength in sales both in the U.S.
and internationally.
Gross profit of $173.7 million in the quarter increased $7.3 million from 2014 levels.
The gross margin of 42.2% decreased 70 basis points primarily due to unfavorable foreign currency effects.
Operating expenses of $101.8 million in the quarter decreased slightly and the operating expense margin of 24.7% improved 170 basis points principally due to sales volume leverage.
As a result of these factors operating earnings for the Snap-on Tools Group of $71.9 million including $4.8 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects increased 12.5% and the operating margin of 17.5% improved 100 basis points from 16.5% last year.
Turning to the Repair Systems &amp; Information or RS&amp;I Group shown on slide nine fourth quarter sales of $280.6 million increased 2.2% organically.
The organic sales increase primarily reflects a mid-single digit gain in sales of diagnostic and repair information products to independent repair shop owners and managers and a low single digit increase in sales to OEM dealerships.
Sales of undercar equipment were essentially flat year-over-year with continued weakness in East European markets including Russia.
Gross margin of 46.7% improved 20 basis points from 46.5% last year.
Operating expenses totaled $58.9 million in the quarter and the operating expense margin of 21% improved 240 basis points primarily due to organic sales volume leverage and savings from RCI initiatives.
Fourth quarter operating earnings for the RS&amp;I Group of $72.1 million including $2.9 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects increased 10.6% from prior year levels and the operating margin of 25.7% improved 260 basis points from 23.1% last year.
Now turning to slide 10 in the fourth quarter operating earnings from financial services of $45 million on revenue of $63.1 million compared with operating earnings of $42.2 million on revenue of $59.4 million last year.
The average yield on finance receivables of 17.8% compared with 17.6% last year and the average yield on contract receivables was 9.5% in both periods.
Originations of $252 million in the quarter increased 8.5% from 2014 levels.
Moving to slide 11 our year-end balance sheet includes approximately $1.6 billion of gross financing receivables including $1.4 billion from our U.S.
operation.
Approximately 80% of our U.S.
financing portfolio relates to extended credit loans to technicians.
In 2015 our worldwide financial services portfolio grew $206 million.
As for finance portfolio losses and delinquency trends these continue to be in line with our expectations.
Now turning to slide 12 cash provided by operations of $144.4 million in the quarter increased $47.2 million from comparable 2014 levels due in part to higher 2015 net earnings and lower growth in working investment as compared to the prior year.
Net cash used by investing activities of $74.6 million included $66.8 million to fund the net increase in finance receivables.
Capital expenditures of $16.1 million in the quarter compared with $17.3 million last year.
For the full year capital expenditures totaled $80.4 million.
Turning to slide 13 days sales outstanding for trade receivables of 60 days compared with 61 days at 2014 year-end.
Inventories increased $22.3 million from 2014 year-end levels primarily to support continued higher customer demand in the auto repair sector and new product introductions as well as the addition of inventories related to the acquisition of Ecotechnics.
On a trailing 12-month basis inventory turns of 3.5 turns compared with 3.7 turns at 2014 year-end.
Our year-end cash position of $92.8 million decreased $40.1 million from 2014 year-end levels.
The net decrease include the impacts of funding $844.2 million of new finance receivables dividend payments of $127.9 million the repurchase of 723 000 shares for $110.4 million $80.4 million for capital expenditures and $11.8 million for the acquisition of Ecotechnics.
These cash decreases were largely offset by $624.8 million of cash from collections of finance receivables and $496.5 million of cash from operations.
Our net debt to capital ratio of 24.6% compared with 26.3% at 2014 year-end.
In addition to our $92.8 million of cash and expected cash flow from operations we have more than $700 million in available credit facilities and our current short-term credit ratings allow us to access the commercial paper markets.
At 2015 year-end we had no commercial paper borrowings outstanding.
This concludes my remarks on our fourth quarter performance.
Now briefly review a few outlook items for 2016.
We anticipate that capital expenditures in 2016 will be in the range of $80 million to $90 million.
We also expect that our full year 2016 effective income tax rate will be comparable to our 2015 full year rate of 31.7%.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Nick for his closing thoughts.
Nick? Thanks Aldo.
Snap-on's fourth quarter an encouraging period; taking advantage of tailwinds overcoming headwinds growing organically improving performance significantly again.
There is turbulence deep decreases in the military and oil and gas and difficulties across the geographies.
But there are tailwinds.
The aging and changing of vehicles continue so vehicle repair remains robust.
In this environment we keep driving down our strategic runways for growth launching innovative new products and advancing our position.
And despite the difficulties we continue moving down our runways for improvement.
Snap-on Value Creation safety and quality.
Customer connection and innovation working better and better.
We had more new hit products in 2015 than ever before not just for the Tools Group but for the corporation overall.
Runways growth and improvement authored 3.1% organic growth in the quarter against the wind.
EPS of $2.22 up 12.7% over last year's fourth quarter against $0.11 of unfavorable currency.
And a 19.1% OpCo operating margin a rise of 220 basis points all extending our ongoing upward trend that has continued for some time.
And we believe that the strength of our business model the power of our brand and the capabilities of our team position us well to continue that positive trend as we go forward.
Before I turn the call over to the operator I'll say a word to our franchisees and associates.
I know many of you are hearing this call.
The encouraging results of our fourth quarter and the year and our potential for continuing the encouraging trends reflect your capability and your dedication.
For the success you've achieved for your contribution to our future and for your commitment to our team you have my congratulations you have my admiration and you have my thanks.
Now I'll turn the call over to the operator for questions.
Operator? Thank you.
We'll go first to Tom Hayes of Northcoast Research.
Hey.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Yes.
Nick I was just wondering maybe you could talk a little bit more or provide a little bit more detail on the critical industries side.
Certainly military and oil and gas has been kind of a challenge in the year.
Maybe talk about the cadence as it went through that quarter and then the outlook for 2016? Well I mean I think we're seeing deep declines in both of those places.
We're talking multiple double digit declines in the military again and oil and gas in particular.
If you're talking about the outlook we've set for some time that military – those two businesses are driving C&amp;I in general.
If you look at C&amp;I beyond those businesses it grew by about just over 5%.
So you see how much they influence the situation.
So you say to yourself well what's going to happen with those businesses? And we've said for the military for a long time that it's uncertain.
And so you say to yourself well that uncertainty is dependent on the government situation and so we're poised to take advantage and it could come back in a short-term or it could continue for a while.
In terms of oil and gas I think we're seeing a historic downturn 70% decline in the business.
I mean in the oil price just in the last – in a recent time.
And we haven't – we saw that at the big recession in 2009.
We saw at the Iran-Iraq War.
So it's kind of an unusual situation.
When that comes back I expect oil and gas to come back.
Okay.
And maybe just a little bit...
On the other hand as we said in our release and our comments aviation was pretty good for us in the quarter.
So you see some goes-ins and goes-outs but the dominant factor in those businesses are the oil and gas and the military.
Okay.
And then maybe just a question on the expense line the operating expense was down meaningfully.
How much of the decline was tied to – you called out less stock-based comp how much of that was contributed to the decline? I don't know.
Let's say about 20 basis points.
Yes 20 basis points.
The big thing if you're looking at operating expenses there's quite a few goes-ins and goes-outs but a lot of that is RCI.
But also if you step back last year in the fourth quarter we talked about the – there was a 53rd week.
But 53rd week in general if I looked at it from the trajectory of the corporation it was kind of not significant.
It wasn't significant.
It shouldn't change your view of where we're going.
But if you start to look at it on account by account it of course becomes an issue associated with the operating expenses because you have that extra week of operating expenses.
You start to look at accounts you had an extra week of sales 1.7% extra sales but last year so that wouldn't be an issue.
But if you step back and look at it we don't think the 53rd week was significant in general or would change your view of the corporation.
But if you look at it on account like operating expense it really is a factor.
And you have currency in operating expense as well.
So you have those things rolling through RCI currency and things like the special events of last year.
Great.
Thank you.
Up next from Longbow Research we go to David MacGregor.
Yes.
Good morning Nick.
Good morning everyone.
Nick can you just talk about demand patterns in January and any deterioration that may be visible beyond critical industries? We almost traditionally never talk about the current quarter.
We never give guidance.
But I will say look I will say that I was just on a van out here in Addison Itaska (37:03) and I have to say that when I talked to the people in the field both our franchisees and the customers – you get out of a van and you go from – you know this you go from shop to shops.
They all seemed very positive and that might stop with the positiveness and the optimism that I saw at the kickoff meetings.
We have a lot of these around the country.
And I was at one of them and the rest of our staff was at others and they come back and certainly we're seeing a qualitative view of optimism.
And so I can offer that.
Okay.
Is there – just within that SG&amp;A pullback notwithstanding it was 70 basis points in the C&amp;I business I guess I get that.
But how much of that was just attributable to the weaker military and oil and gas business versus what may have been in that number in terms of structural cost takeouts? And I guess also can you say to what extent there may have been some cost items that were pushed forward into 1Q or pulled back into last quarter's...
I don't think we did that.
I think – look I think if you look at – if you're talking about – are you talking about the 130 basis points of margin improvement in C&amp;I? I was talking about the $16 million of SG&amp;A drop which was great.
But I'm just trying to get a sense of what the nature of that was.
That's overall though.
The $16 million is overall.
Right.
Right? That's not just for C&amp;I.
Correct.
And that didn't have much push or pull.
What's in there is like I said you had currency a big number of currency with the currency year-over-year affects that SG&amp;A and shrinks it.
You have RCI.
You've got – as somebody mentioned before you have some goes-ins and goes-outs in terms of pension going the other way compensation going one way.
And you also have the 53rd week last year which was an extra week of operating expenses.
Like I said – and so therefore the comparison issue isn't favorable you get paid back at the sales line for that because the sales ends up being a little bit smaller.
But if you look at it – I don't want to – I want to focus that if you look at that one account you start to see the effect of the 53rd week.
If you look at it in total it wasn't much of an effect for us.
Okay.
Last question just if you could talk about the trends you're seeing in tool storage and whether you're seeing a deceleration in demand patterns.
No.
No.
Our big ticket items in total we never talk particularly about tool storage but our big ticket items in total were up a little bit more than the tools did (39:27) in the quarter.
And I don't see that really.
I really don't see it.
We haven't identified any particular cooling of that activity.
Now from quarter-to-quarter these things always change.
But I don't see as a downturn.
Like I said our big ticket items continued.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Sure.
We'll go next to Liam Burke of Wunderlich.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning Nick.
Good morning Aldo.
Hey Liam.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Nick can you give us a sense – you had a good year in new product introductions and hit products.
What can we look forward? I mean are you continuing to see growth in that area with more new introductions to create more hit products? Yes I am.
But look I hate to pin myself to the rack of continual increases in million-dollar hit products.
I'm trying not to do that.
But that's our drive.
I can tell you this.
We're getting better and better at customer connection and innovation.
And if you think about it a complex product line (40:37) 65 000-plus SKUs is asymmetrically (40:40) enabled by new technology like 3D printing and finite element analysis and some of the other things like X-ray diffractometers which is new to us and electron microscopes and so on.
So from a design point of view we're getting better so we don't have to put as much upfront into every product.
And from a calling-the-airstrikes point of view in other words reacting to customer connection we're getting better.
And that has authored the continual improvement of our hit products.
This year it was up again.
I would be aiming to bring it up next year but we're not – it's not something we always report about.
But I think every year our new products become more impactful and more effective.
I mean just look at the VERUS Edge.
The VERUS Edge is simply the best product available in diagnostics.
And diagnostics is a rising category.
It's faster smarter easier to use and it gives you handheld access to our unique millions of records in – database of millions of records that allows technicians to shortcut the repair process.
This is revolutionary and that's just one thing.
We pointed out the prybar today in our – now we use the prybar for a reason.
The prybar is just – it's a prybar yet customer connection and innovation showed us how to make that long-standing category so much better.
That's what's happening in Snap-on.
That's what's driving the business for us.
And it works in the Tools Group.
And we're confident it's going to work for critical industries although there's turbulence as you can see in critical industries with oil and gas.
I mean oil and gas I think we – oil and gas and military we never – we always said that our penetration was low and we wouldn't see an impact but we didn't contemplate going from $115 oil to $30 oil which is cataclysmic.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And with the end markets in the automotive repair continuing to grow are you seeing any change in the competitive front? I don't think so.
I listen to the same publicity that you would listen to.
And so people are – I think it's a robust market so there's room for everybody to have some kind of good news in this market.
But when I go out – and I checked this the other day with our people when I go out to the franchisees around the vans they don't talk about the competitors.
They talk about our business and how we can make it better.
So I don't think we're seeing any kind of change at present.
I rode on a van where the guy talks about the numbers of competitors that left his route in other words gave up the business and went out.
He keeps track of it but that's all.
I mean he doesn't worry about the competition.
He worries about himself.
He worries about well okay our – things like questions like our power tool is actually a lot better than our old power tool the one I replaced.
Or maybe it isn't as good.
We need to make it a little bit better.
Those are the kinds of things we talk about.
Or how much our productivity advancements like providing – for the vans providing a mobile tablet for van drivers a couple of mobile tablets for a van.
570 of our van drivers have assistance and the mobile tablet allows them to spread both the principal and the assistant out into different areas greatly increasing their reach.
They talk about that and the efficacy of that.
They don't talk about the competitors.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you Nick.
Sure.
From Barrington Research we'll go to Gary Prestopino.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Gary.
Inc.</span></strong> Couple of questions here.
I know somebody asked this about million-dollar products but Nick could you maybe quantify what was the growth in million-plus products that you put out this year versus last year? I'm not going to actually quantify.
I've tried to avoid quantifying that and I'm not going to change that in this call.
But I would say it was up this year by a reasonable margin.
In fact you might even call it a substantial margin in terms of what was launched.
So we had a pretty good year in terms of new products.
And remember what I have said is that the number is now five times or six times what it was in 2006.
That's a pretty...
...good number.
Pretty good increase.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
And you would anticipate that obviously you're going to continue to try and strive to put out more new products especially -- Sure.
The whole point is yes.
I'm probably not going to slit my wrists if it doesn't increase as much next year you know what I mean? But certainly we do target that and that's part of our plan.
We would expect that to happen.
We put the capabilities and the elements in place to make that happen.
And we're getting – it's simply Gary we're getting better at it.
We're getting better at it.
You can see it in the Tools Group numbers.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
You know okay 8.7% against 1% or 2% GDPs.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Can you maybe – we've – at least we think that you've had a recovery here for -- we're going into year seven especially in the U.S.
and the automotive market.
Is there anything different that you're experiencing in this recovery versus maybe prior recoveries in your experience with Snap-on? Actually no.
I don't think so.
Actually the recovery has been going on since 2009 and so I don't think so.
I do think automotive repair which is 70% of our business – 70%-plus of our business -- is relatively robust determined by the aging of the vehicles and the changing of the vehicles which isn't interrupted so much by economics.
And so I think automotive repair is in a good place and makes us resistant to these – not immune to these kinds of changes but resistant.
I don't see any change there.
Look I think if you look at other geographies and industries they go up and down like you see in oil and gas and in military like in anybody else but I don't see anything different about those that I haven't seen in a number of different ups and downs except that maybe the oil and gas (47:37).
Inc.</span></strong> Hello? Oh Jesus.
Please stand by while we reconnect with our speakers.
One moment.
Once again ladies and gentlemen please stay on the line.
[Music] (48:27 – 48:37) Please stand by as the speakers are joining.
Give us just one moment.
And you have rejoined.
Please continue.
Hello Gary are you still there? Yes Gary your line is open.
Yes.
Sorry.
What did you hear last? Sorry.
We got cut off here I guess.
Inc.</span></strong> No.
That was fine.
I think we were talking about just maybe differences in the recovery what you're seeing.
Yes.
I don't think that much.
I mean this is just – I mean certainly oil and gas is a bigger downturn than anybody's seen in a while.
It's unusual right? But other than that I don't think so.
This isn't our first rodeo.
So we've seen it.
And automotive repair seems to be chunking along I think.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then one last...
Doing pretty well.
Sure.
Inc.</span></strong> That's good to hear.
One last question for Aldo; in terms of your international sales they run what about 25% of your business right somewhere around there? Yes.
That's a – I think you have Europe is about 18% of the mix and emerging markets add another 10%.
Inc.</span></strong> That's what I'm getting at.
In terms of currencies the currencies that really impact you would probably be the pound the euro and then what else? You have it pretty much right.
If you're looking at the sales line Gary the most important currency that creates a headwind is the euro.
In addition to the euro you have the Canadian dollar.
Lot of people forget about that but the Canadian dollar the British pound would be the next most significant ones.
When it comes to the bottom line we have more natural hedges throughout the continent of Europe.
So the euro actually has less of an impact on the bottom line.
The biggest impact to our profitability is actually the Canadian dollar the British pound.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So the Canadian dollar and the pound are on (50:37) Gee that's why you see most of the impact manifesting itself in the Tools Group.
If you think about the Tools Group is largely a sales footprint.
So they don't have a lot of cost that enjoy the benefit of the haircut in the weaker currencies in the United Kingdom and in Canada or Australia for that matter.
So they don't enjoy the protection that you get where you have a euro-based organization.
There's a lot more cost that decrease in U.S.
dollar terms.
Yes.
The Tools Group was up 17.5% – was up 100 basis points.
But that was against 70 basis points of negative currency.
So you can see where that affects okay? Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
Sure.
We'll go next to David Leiker Robert W.
Baird.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
This is Joe Vruwink in for David.
Hi Joe.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> The one slice of C&amp;I that I don't believe you commented on yet was Asia.
Any updates on growth rates or trends from the Asia Pacific region? It was mixed in the quarter.
China was weaker than we've seen in a while.
And so we had China being weak and we had some – whereas Indonesia had been weak before.
Indonesia was up India was up so we kind of had a balance there in terms of our mix in Asia Pacific China being more difficult in this quarter.
We see a lot of variation from quarter-to-quarter in Asia Pacific.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> And in China is it possible to determine – this will sound strange but if a slowdown in new vehicle demand which may actually cause the fleet to age a bit ultimately ends up being more beneficial to Snap-on? I don't know.
I don't think so.
I mean I kind of think the cars that are there in the park they're going to age anyway.
I don't think that the cars or the new cars that are being purchased are making the old cars go away.
That's what I think.
I don't think they're shipping those overseas to any big extent.
Now I could be wrong about that but that's our general impression about China it's a lot of different markets and a lot of different areas.
I think the slowdown would probably help some but I don't think it would be as big a factor as you might think.
It's usually the size of the park.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> And then one last one on C&amp;I.
Is there any correlation in the military business for Snap-on to the wheeled vehicle programs getting rolled out? So if JLTV production starts ramping at Oshkosh does Snap-on typically see a benefit in their defense business? Well I don't know if we've tied to particularly Oshkosh or something like that but certainly wheeling out of new programs help us a lot.
For example the F-35 is a help to us the fighter vehicle the fighter because we have a lot of the business associated with supporting that for both production and for repair.
So that kind of program is an underlying program.
But across the programs in the defense department particularly around the projects around with those new products that business is very weak – was very weak this quarter.
If they launch new products like you say a wheeled vehicle product at Oshkosh that provides an opportunity and we're well-positioned to take advantage of that.
So those kinds of programs new vehicles do help us.
But I don't know...
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> And so...
I don't know if you can just trace it to an Oshkosh program.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> No no.
I was thinking more broadly on the programs that you commented on.
And so is it maybe fair to say the duration of this pullback in military spending might be shorter than what's Snap-on dealt with in 2012 2013 around the sequester? Yes.
Gee.
I don't know.
I think the government business is kind of uncertain.
We've said the military business was up in the quarter – up in the first two quarters.
And we said we knew it was going to be uncertain.
And now when it's down I still say the same thing.
Certainly the things you're talking about.
New programs are going to help and would shorten the cycle.
That's true.
Stabilization of the budget would help.
It may be not as chronic as the controller of the prior cycle but I can't really say for sure.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
I will leave it there.
Thank you.
Thank you.
From Jefferies we'll hear from Bret Jordan.
Good morning.
This is actually David Kelley in for Bret this morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
A couple of quick follow-ups on RS&amp;I here.
And I guess first regarding the flat undercar sales you mentioned.
I know U.S.
service chain reported a fourth quarter comp decline and largely due to some mild winter weather conditions along the East Coast.
Just wondering if you saw some weather-related headwinds in the quarter and I guess how was domestic undercar performance? And how do we think about that segment going forward given the robust auto repair market we're talking about and really some of the significant miles driven gains we've seen over the last three months...
Yes.
Look there's a lot of goes-ins and goes-outs in the undercar equipment business.
First and foremost that flatness is impacted by Eastern Europe.
Among all our businesses the undercar equipment business had the strongest position in Eastern Europe and Russia.
So the dips in those places impacted that business as just squeezed down to a smaller place the most.
That's number one.
In terms of the other businesses of course weather can be a factor in undercar and that might have been – say it might be entitled to some of that in the fourth quarter and some of that bad weather.
And then the other thing is it was up quite – our undercar business is a longer wave business.
It isn't just a quarter business.
When we have a good quarter like we had in the third quarter sometimes you'll have resources devoted to installation of those new products flowing into the next quarter which will put a weight on the next quarter.
So you see those three things rolling through it.
I would expect – to your question about the longer-term I expect that undercar repair will follow along with the generally robust vehicle repair market in the U.S.
and in Europe as the cars get older.
And by the way as the cars get lighter and need more fuel economy the precision of balancing and alignment needs to be stronger.
So we're very positive about the long-term future of that business and we have a major share of it.
All right great.
I appreciate the color.
And then just quickly if you can provide some maybe color around the 260 basis points margin expansion for RS&amp;I; just wondering how much of that is basic blocking and tackling around these RCI initiatives that continue to provide you guys tailwinds here? Well RCI is a big dollop of it.
And then of the 260 basis points I would say you've got a little bit of negative currency and you got about 70 basis points or so what I would call favorable mix.
As you follow us over time you will see that RS&amp;I has quite a variation from business to business in terms of operating margin.
It could be thousands of basis points.
And so what happened in this quarter is we had another strong quarter of diagnostics and Mitchell the business to independents which are high margin business and a reduction of the hardware business which is equipment.
So that generated that 70 basis points or so of help from business mix.
So that's what you're seeing.
RCI and business mix.
All right great.
Thank you.
And then just a final one from me and this is more kind of a big picture thought question here.
You're mentioning sales to OEM dealerships were up again single digits.
And I guess as we think about maybe being on the back end of a cyclical recovery in new vehicle sales do you think there might be a shift in dealership ordering patterns of equipment either they're focusing more on parts than service retention or maybe they're spending less due to a flat retail sales market? How do you think about the dealership channel over the next...
I'm not sure.
Having worked in the auto industry for 11 years myself I would say that's a hard call.
I mean I don't think you can make a lot out of this.
I guess we were saying mid-single digits or low single digits in the OEM dealership business this quarter.
But I don't think you can make a conclusion on one quarter.
Some of that got driven by programs out of OEM manufacturers the essential diagnostics and so on.
I do think you make a point that as new car sales attenuate dealerships tend to focus a little bit more on parts and service.
I think that is true to the extent that the time constants on which that rolls into our business I'm not sure.
All right great.
Thanks for taking my question.
Sure.
David MacGregor of Longbow Research has a follow-up question.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Just a follow-up Nick; somewhere within your portfolio there's got to be a line of business or a product or some franchise that serves as a pretty reliable leading indicator for you.
And I'm just wondering if you could talk a little bit about where you're seeing leading indicators in your business and basically what they're telling you.
There's obviously some concerns here about your ability to sustain growth in 2016.
I just wanted to give you an opportunity to talk a little bit about why you're feeling confident to – certainly in the first half of 2016? Well our leading indicators are pretty much what we hear from our franchisees and what we see about the programs in terms of the changing of the vehicles and what we hear from our franchisees about their outlooks for the demand in their businesses.
You can go out and talk to them and the leading indicators are gee are we providing the kinds of tools that would solve the new problems that are coming on the horizons in the independent garages? Now this isn't a quantitative leading indicator but it's been pretty reliable for us.
And so what we see is the optimism coming out from them saying boy I think things are good and the fact that we our new product portfolios our innovative new products are solving more problems than ever.
Those are the kinds of things and that hasn't abated.
So I feel pretty good about that business.
And in terms of the other businesses I just think we also feel good about our growing strength in the critical industries.
It's just that you see some very big headwinds in some of those critical industries.
And I can't predict where those are going to go.
Can you just remind us again what...
On the other hand I will just offer that we've seen up and down before and we've been able to grow profitability against the winds; not every quarter necessarily but in terms of a trend.
We view our situation as a trend.
If you go back and you look at our numbers from 2006 onwards sales and profits the trend continued and even through the recession and the dip in the recession that trend continued.
So you continue to see growth in your future-dated orders? We don't have future-dated orders really.
We're not a future-dated order business.
So we don't have much of an order backlog.
Yes.
We don't have that kind of thing.
We have to rely on the kinds of things I've talked about.
All right.
Okay.
And just last question.
Can you just remind us what critical industries represents as a percentage of total C&amp;I? It represents about I'd say 40%.
David you can say given for government worth it's $450 million business roughly right? Right right.
Okay.
Thanks Nick.
Sure.
And our final question today will come from Richard Hilgert of Morningstar.
Congratulations on a great quarter guys.
Thanks Richard.
Just wanted to get your feel for what you're seeing in terms of puts and takes with some of the issues that we're facing right now on the new car side of the business.
We're seeing diesel being a big issue right now.
We're seeing hybrids being a big issue.
We're seeing active safety coming into play over the next couple of years.
I would imagine that with more and more electronic control there's going to be more opportunities for diagnostics maybe but also I'm wondering on the Tools side if there's any opportunities there.
What's some of the puts and takes that you're seeing with all these changes coming down the pike? Actually Richard all of those things are positive for our business.
When the vehicles change that requires new tool loads new electronics new undercar equipment to deal with the changes.
If you just take one and if you think about self-driving vehicles and things like that I mean the more people rely on internal mechanisms inside the car the more precise calibration has to be and therefore the more careful and more detailed the mechanical job is the mechanics have to be.
And so if it gets more electronic there's opportunities for diagnostics.
If it gets more attended to onboard computers to control the car more equipment and more diagnostics.
And ironically during the time in which the cars have electrified it's gone from – in the 1990s it went from 50 60 engine codes for a car to now thousands of engine codes.
In that time demand for hand tools has only increased because the reparability of the car is so far down in terms of the design considerations that the cars have become more and more difficult to physically repair let alone diagnose associated with electronics.
So all of those things are good for us.
We see a very positive future and trend and we're confident.
That continues the trend that you see in our numbers.
If you look at our numbers and you see over periods of time sales and OI margin continual trends in good times and challenged times.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
And it appears there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the call back over to Leslie Kratcoski for closing remarks.
Thanks everyone for joining us today.
A replay of today's call will be available shortly on snapon.com.
And as always we thank you for your interest in Snap-on.
Good day.
And again that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you all for joining.