Good afternoon.
My name is David and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Southern Company First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Glen Kundert Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you David and welcome to Southern Company's first quarter earnings call.
Joining me this afternoon are Tom Fanning Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Company; and Art Beattie Chief Financial Officer.
Let me remind you that we will make forward-looking statements today in addition to providing historical information.
There are various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements including those discussed in our Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
We'll be including slides as part of today's conference call.
The slides provide details on information that will be discussed in today's call.
You can access the slides on our Investor Relations website at www.southerncompany.com if you want to follow along during the presentation.
Now at this time I'll turn the call over to Tom Fanning Southern Company's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
Our first quarter results show we're off to a good start in 2011.
In addition as you can see from the materials released this morning the economy as shown by sales to industrial customers continues to gain strength and momentum.
The year-over-year increase in industrial sales in 2010 compared with 2009 was 7.7%.
In the first quarter of 2011 we've already seen a 6.7% increase in industrial sales compared with the first quarter of 2010.
This momentum is reflected in the results of a recent Southern Company survey of our top industrial customers in Georgia.
In that survey 60% of those customers said they expect production increases over the next 6 months.
In addition 1/3 of those industrial customers told us that they anticipate employment increases and 28% expect increases in exports.
The result of this survey serve to reinforce our own confidence about the near-term and long-term future of our region.
So our businesses are performing well and we are on plan.
Turning now to an event which has focused the world attention on nuclear energy.
I'd like to offer some comments on how we believe that event at the Fukushima plant in Japan might impact the nation's existing and future fleet of nuclear power plants.
First the supporting commitment for nuclear energy remains strong at the grassroots level here in the Southeast among key members of Congress on both sides of the aisle and within the Obama administration.
No doubt there will be lessons learned from the tragic events at Fukushima that will almost certainly apply to the current fleet of nuclear generation in America.
Certainly we expect there'll be a thorough thoughtful review of those facilities located in seismically sensitive areas plants along coastal zones and perhaps other design modifications particularly with older plants.
We believe any mandated changes will not significantly impact the operations of our existing fleet or be cost prohibitive.
Finally we believe that any potential impacts to our Vogtle 3 and 4 units should be minimal.
Recall that the Vogtle site is not in a seismically sensitive area.
We are not on a coastline.
We are some 130 miles inland and are 220 feet above sea level.
Finally the AP1000 design is robust and its passive safety systems should preclude many of the problems which occurred in Japan.
Our current fleet is safe.
Our proposed new units are even safer.
With respect to units 3 and 4 at Plant Vogtle we are still on track to receive the combined construction and operating license or COL by the end of this year we had no indication that the issuance of the COL will be delayed as a result of the NRC's review of the events [ph] in Japan.
My final business update concerns the potential for adding a risk sharing or incentive regulation mechanism into our current rate mechanism for Vogtle 3 and 4.
Our position is that we are always open to constructive agreements that benefit customers.
We believe the current Georgia law with respect to new nuclear construction is very clear from a cost-recovery standpoint.
Therefore any agreement must be an improvement on the existing law and must include a formal recognition of the work that has already been done to reduce the cost to customers of the new units by specifically including the benefits of conditional federal loan guarantees production tax credits changes made in the EPC contract and CWIP in rate base.
We believe in the aggregate that since the certification approval Georgia Power has brought to the table additional benefits to our customers of more than $1 billion.
Georgia will file its testimony today.
A decision on whether to adopt an incentive plan is expected on August 2.
Let me say again we are satisfied with the current rate regime for Vogtle 3 and 4.
Any changes would have to improve on that structure.
At this point I'll turn the call over to Art Beattie our Chief Financial Officer for a discussion of our financial highlights for the first quarter and our earnings guidance for the remainder of 2011.
Thanks Tom.
As Tom has already pointed out 2011 is off to a good start.
In the first quarter of 2011 we earned $0.50 a share compared with $0.60 a share in the first quarter of 2010 or a reduction of $0.10 a share.
Let's now turn to the major factors that drove our first quarter numbers compared with the first quarter of 2010.
First the negative factors.
The impact of more normal weather in the first quarter of 2011 reduced our earnings by $0.07 a share compared with the first quarter of 2010.
As you may recall unusually cold weather in the first quarter of 2010 added $0.09 a share to our earnings in that period when compared to normal weather.
Increased depreciation and amortization reduced our earnings by $0.06 a share in the first quarter of 2011 compared with the first quarter of 2010.
This increase primarily due to the expiration of the Georgia Power cost of removal accounting order at the conclusion of 2010 and to increased environmental transmission and distribution investments.
A decrease in wholesale revenue in our traditional business reduced our earnings by $0.05 a share in the first quarter of 2011 compared with the same period in 2010.
This reduction is primarily a result of a portion of the capacity at plant Miller in Alabama returning to retail service in May of 2010 after the expiration of a long-term wholesale contract.
Non-fuel O&amp;M reduced our earnings by $0.03 a share in the first quarter of 2011 compared with the first quarter of 2010.
This reduction is due primarily to increased scheduled outages and increased maintenance costs for our fossil hydro fleet as well as increased maintenance on our Transmission &amp; Distribution system.
The recognition of certain state of Georgia tax credits in the first quarter of 2010 compared with the first quarter of 2011 reduced our earnings by $0.02 per share.
Other income and deduction and taxes other than income taxes reduced our earnings by $0.02 per share in the first quarter of '11 compared with the first quarter of 2010.
Finally an increase in the number of shares outstanding reduced our earnings by $0.01 per share in the first quarter of 2011 compared with the first quarter of 2010.
Now let's turn to the business positive factors that drove our earnings in the first quarter of 2011.
Other revenue effects in our Traditional business added a total of $0.12 per share to our earnings in the first quarter of 2011 compared with the first quarter of 2010.
This was primarily the result of regulatory actions at Georgia Power.
Other operating revenues primarily related to increased transmission revenues added $0.01 per share to our earnings in the first quarter of 2011 compared with the first quarter of 2010.
Finally improved results at Southern Power due primarily to new contracts added $0.03 per share to our earnings in the first quarter of 2011 compared with the first quarter of 2010.
In conclusion we had $0.26 of negative items compared with $0.16 of positive items or a negative change of $0.10 per share over the first quarter of 2010.
So overall our core came in at $0.50 per share.
Before I discuss our earnings estimate for the second quarter I'd like to update you on the economy and 2 other important matters.
First total weather-normalized sales for the first quarter of 2011 increased by 1.4% over the first quarter of 2010 driven primarily by stronger sales to our industrial customers.
The improving economy saw industrial sales increased by 6.7% in the first quarter of 2011 compared with the first quarter of 2010.
Quarter-over-quarter the most significant increases were in primary metals up 18%; pipelines up 17%; transportation up 11%; and chemicals up 10% compared with the first quarter of 2010.
In the primary metals group ThyssenKrupp is reporting increased demand for its high-quality flat-rolled steel from its new facility in Alabama.
The increased demand by pipeline customers is largely attributable to increased demand for home heating oil and natural gas in the Northeast due to colder temperatures in the first quarter of 2011 compared to the first quarter of 2010.
Auto production at manufacturers within our territory remained strong and low natural gas prices continued to stimulate chemical production in the U.S.
Adjusting for weather residential sales declined by 0.9% in the first quarter of 2010 compared to the first quarter of 2010.
Total personal income continued to strengthen but higher food and energy prices primarily gasoline eroded income gains in the first quarter.
However both regional and national initial claims for unemployment are falling to levels that would suggest the beginnings of job growth.
As expected commercial sales remained weak declining 0.8% on a weather-normal basis in the first quarter of 2011 compared with the first quarter of 2010.
In spite of limited growth in sales in the first quarter there are positive signs: The Institute of Supply Management's Non-Manufacturing Index has been above 50 for 16 months in a row.
In this particular index any score above 50 indicates economic expansion in the commercial sector.
Additionally office vacancy rates have remained flat at around 23%.
Also during 2011 sales tax collections in Alabama and Georgia grew by 6.8% in the first quarter suggesting an improvement in consumer spending which should bode well for a pickup in commercial usage.
We continued to see new announcements of industrial and commercial expansions in our service territory.
In addition to those we had mentioned in previous calls the following have been announced recently: Chevron is planning a $1.4 billion expansion of its refinery in Pascagoula Mississippi which is expected to be completed in mid-2013.
Kia Motors which will begin producing its popular mid-sized sedan the Kia Optima at its West Point Georgia plant in 2012.
The new production line is expected to add 1 000 new jobs bringing total employment at the plant to nearly 3 000.
ThyssenKrupp is accelerating work on a stainless steel remelt facility with production expected to begin in 2012 that is expected to add approximately 700 jobs bringing total employment at that facility to 2 700.
Finally 2 major military base realignments should have positive net impacts on Georgia Power and Gulf Power of approximately 2 500 new jobs.
In summary the economy in the Southeast continues to be driven by a steady worldwide demand for exports as evidenced by the Port of Savannah which reported an 8% increase in container volumes in the first quarter of 2011.
As we move forward in 2011 barring any unforeseen shocks to the economy we still believe that the steady expansion in the industrial sector as well as military base realignments will help drive growth in our Residential and Commercial segments.
Before I discuss our dividend I'd like to briefly review our current thinking on capital expenditures and equity requirements.
As we outlined at our analyst meeting last month our base estimate of capital expenditures for our Traditional business for the 3-year period 2011 through 2013 totals $13.3 billion.
In addition we have provided a range of $700 million to $2.9 billion of potential compliance capital over the same 3-year period to address evolving environmental regulations.
If the EPA's proposed utility MACT rule is finalized as proposed we expect that our capital budget would be closer to the upper end of that range for the 3-year period that we've described.
The primary driver that leads to the upper end of the capital expenditure range is the assumption that compliance with the proposed rule is only achievable through the installation of backhouses at coal units that we continue to operate or other capital-intensive operations such as new gas generation capacity and/or transmission upgrades.
We have not changed our outlook on our equity requirements that will be needed to support our capital budget.
Consistent with our assumptions on capital expenditures we have provided a range of equity issuances of $900 million to $1.8 billion over the 3-year period.
We expect to raise approximately $500 million of new equity through our internal programs the dividend reinvestment plan the employee savings plan Southern Investment Plan and the employee stock option plan in 2011.
We have already raised approximately $200 million of new equity in the first quarter of this year through these plans.
We expect these same plans to provide sufficient equity for the remaining 2 years even near the top end of the equity issuance range.
Once the final EPA rules are in place we should be able to provide more detail on both our capital expenditure forecast and our financing requirements.
Now I'd like to take a few minutes to discuss our dividend increase.
As you may have seen last week we announced a $0.07 annual dividend increase effective with our second quarter dividend payment in June of this year.
The dividend is now $0.4725 on a quarterly basis and $1.89 per share annually.
This marks the 254th consecutive quarter that Southern Company has paid a dividend to its common stockholders and the 10th year in a row that we've increased the dividend.
In fact every year for the past 63 years Southern Company has paid a quarterly dividend equal to or higher than the previous quarter's dividend.
Our dividend and long-term earnings per share growth assumption coupled with strong financial integrity are key components of our overall value proposition.
Turning to our earnings guidance for 2011.
We are certainly off to a good beginning in 2011.
Our first quarter results exceeded our estimate by $0.03 per share as we experienced a colder-than-normal January which benefited both our Traditional business and Southern Power.
However as you know the majority of our earnings are derived in the summer months of the second and third quarters.
Therefore our guidance will remain at $2.48 to $2.56 per share.
Finally our estimate for the second quarter is $0.62 per share.
At this point I'll turn the call back to Tom for his closing remarks.
Thank you Art.
In closing I'd like to offer a few words about the Environmental Protection Agency's proposal for a new Maximum Achievable Control [Maximum Achievable Control Technology] Standard or MACT for the utility industry.
Earlier this month I had an opportunity to discuss this issue in a speech before the United States Chamber of Commerce and later that week to appear before the House Subcommittee on Energy and Power and testify on the proposed regulation.
Both of these presentations are on our Investor Relations website and provide a detailed explanation of our concerns.
In summarizing our position on the EPA MACT we have 4 key concerns: First no matter how you look at it the timeline for this rule is unreasonable both for providing comments and for complying.
Second its accelerated 3-year timeline for compliance could put the reliability of the nation's electric generating system at risk.
My third point is that the rushed timeline will also impact electricity affordability.
My fourth and final point is that the industry needs a realistic compliance schedule a schedule that is based on historical experience a schedule that allows us to retrofit existing units and begin work on additional capacity at the same time.
As I've said before we are already transitioning our generating fleet.
We don't need an overly complex and unworkable set of new regulations to hurt our customers by decreasing reliability increasing costs reducing job growth and burdening an already challenged economy.
Finally I'd like to reiterate that we are off to a good start in 2011.
Our businesses are performing well and the industrial side of our economy is nearing prerecession levels of production.
We continue to believe that a resurging industrial sector will drive an improvement in our residential and commercial classes as we move forward this year.
Our primary focus remains as it has been for the past 63 years to provide a reliable and affordable supply of energy to meet the needs of our customers and the energy requirements of this growing region.
At this time point Art and I are ready to take your questions.
So operator we will now take the first question.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Andy Levi of Caris &amp; Company.
Just a quick question.
On the COL I guess I remember -- I mean obviously you've stated that the schedule is for the end of the year.
But at your conference in March you talked about possibly getting it earlier.
Is that still a possibility? Yes I suppose.
But I think the more realistic expectation we'd like to keep out there is just by the end of the year.
Okay.
That's all I had.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon of KeyBanc.
Just looking at your guidance it looks like you're -- for the second quarter it looks like you're planning on being flat with last year.
But we still have one more quarter of the accounting order as a headwind right? Which accounting order are you referring to Paul? The Georgia depreciation? That basically ended at the end of last year.
There is still about $7 million a quarter that will be amortized against depreciation.
But as you compare to last year it will be a lot less this year.
So depreciation expense will go up in comparison on the second quarter as compared to last year.
So the headwind comment is true? Yes that's true.
And we still expect to be equal? Yes.
And you indicated that the first quarter of '11 Southern Power had some new contracts that added $0.03.
What are the contracts signed and how long do we have that tailwind? Well last year we had Plant Wansley that went off contract at the end of 2009 and was off contract for the first 6 months of 2010.
They were -- they are on contract in 2011 so you got about 0% coverage to 65% coverage in the first 6 months of the year.
And then I think at Plant Dahlberg which was not covered last year and it's more than 100% covered this year.
I'm not sure about the length of those contracts but we can get back to you with that if you need it.
Okay.
Super.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman of Bank of America.
A couple of things.
First on the -- your kind of take on complying with the EPA HAP MACT rule.
Just could you give some flavor on the -- one of the things in that proposal was the reliance on dry sorbent injection.
I'm wondering if you could give your point of view on -- from your experience in Utah and how reasonable that is.
And did you incorporate that at all in your plan or are you assuming you can't do it? Yes actually thanks for that question.
As all of you may know I think Southern Company is the leader in compliance with these types of equipment modifications.
In fact we’ve led our industry by adding I think so far about $8 billion of environmental control equipment and by the 2013 timeframe we will have added somewhere between $10 billion and $12 billion in total.
So I think we've got a great deal of experience.
Further we've been able to put this CapEx into place at a timeframe that makes sense for reliability in the Southeast.
We've done everything on schedule under budget and has performed at above industry standards.
So I believe we know what we're talking about here.
Further you may know that Southern Company also is the only company that remains significantly engaged in proprietary research and development and we've had a lot of people working on these issues frankly for decades.
With respect to the dry sorbent injection issue dry sorbent injection is typically used and has had some success in dealing with things like SO2 and SO3.
But when you consider the consequential effects on the PM standard that's being proposed which is frankly a new standard when you take into account not only filterable PMs but condensable PMs there is a consequential problem that is introduced by dry sorbent injection and popularly trona.
So our view is that there may be very selected instances where that might work.
But in fact we believe it will not be a widespread solution.
It's one of the reasons why we really disagree with the proposal put forward in the EPA regulation.
I think their estimate was you would only need to add around 26 000 megawatts of scrubbers.
We think the number is going to be way more around 80 000 megawatts of scrubbers.
Okay.
And just I guess separate topic on the issue of the COL.
Just from the simple issue of like NRC personnel resources.
Is that something you're concerned at all about in terms of the NRC being able to come out on the timeline that you'd hoped for? Well listen as a healthy matter we're always concerned.
But we've received assurances from the NRC that they had staff dedicated to our process.
I think it's easy to complain about Washington from time to time but when you consider the support that we've gotten from the Obama administration from Congress from our regulators with the priority that's been placed on moving forward with this next renaissance of nuclear we've been pretty gratified with the response and feel like we're getting the attention we deserve.
And your next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Tom just following up a little bit on Steve's question regarding the HAP MACT rule.
Does the law give you or give the industry leeway in terms of the timeline for implementation of that rule? I understand it does for 316(b).
I understand I think it does for their Clean Air Transport Rule.
But do the Clean Air Act amendments actually give the EPA any flexibility or if they granted it would they wind up -- likely wind up in court being sued by some of the NGOs? The consent decree that the EPA voluntarily entered into with justice provided that the justice recognize this was an enormous complex and potentially costly issue.
And that if EPA needed more time in which to evaluate the potential effect that that they would be willing -- they'd be inclined to grant it.
And it was interesting.
After I gave that speech at the U.S.
Chamber I had a very constructive conversation with Lisa Jackson administrator of the EPA and we certainly offered our help to her.
But it sounds like -- and I may have misinterpreted this and my apologies if I did it sounds like there's leeway in terms of the review and the comment period.
Once there's a final rule do the Clean Air Act amendments give leeway for the timeline for implementation? Three years plus a possible one-year extension from the final rule.
So there's really -- there's 2 timeframes there right? Okay.
I'm not sure I follow you.
One timeframe to comment and analyze the bill and everything else and another timeframe to comply.
Your testimony mentioned kind of trying to get another 60 to 90 60 to 120 days of incremental comment period.
It doesn't strike me that that's enough to really solve the issue meaning the issue is really you need 5 years to implement.
Yes we agree.
I think what I said in the congressional testimony is -- and let me tell you something be very careful.
I'm giving you Southern Company's reality.
Our reality is that if we could get kind of a 2018 timeframe we would feel a lot more comfortable about being able to run our portfolio.
Other people have put forward timeframes that are really incomplete in their scope.
They don't take into account the fact that we've got to deal with a portfolio of generation across a wide part of the United States.
All these things must be taken into account including vendor supplies including craft [ph] labor.
That's going to be needed to be brought to bear in an orderly way that is economically sensible.
All of this is for the benefit of our customers.
Has anybody that you're aware of done work around what the pricing impact or the cost impact on pollution control equipment with the -- if it's all being done in kind of a 3- to 5-year timeframe? Yes.
Listen there's a lot of people running around with estimates but one can only speculate.
The obvious answer is that it will go up.
Understood.
Much appreciated guys.
You bet.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Ali Agha of SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> Tom in your last round of visits out to Washington have you gotten any sense on any activity going on there in the congressional level with regards to these rules? It looks likes obviously the Senate has tried a few things.
House has been trying.
Votes are not there.
Are you seeing anything there to give you more optimism that things could move? Or is that one-year flexibility really the maximum that's out there? Well remember there's a one-year flexibility that the EPA could grant and we would want them to grant them immediately frankly.
Secondly there are provisions where the executive branch could grant an additional 2 years.
So there is some flexibility out there.
In respect to the first part of your question there are lots of shall we say initiatives and constructive thinking about legislative ways to attack this problem.
One of the issues that I made a point of raising in my U.S.
chamber speech is that energy policy is a purview of Congress which is accountable to the electorate.
Some of the outcomes of this regulation could eliminate for example in a practical way coal being used in the future and on any new sources of generation.
That to me strikes at the heart of national policy and that is the purview of Congress.
Inc.</strong> And also remind us Tom let's say the timeline does not change and the number of companies perhaps you included don't need that timeline.
What is the penalty? Do you need to shut down or are there fines? Can you just remind us what's the penalty for not reaching the timeline? I think what you would do is enter into a set of individual consent decrees with Justice company-by-company.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And so that would lead to what some kind of fines on your part? Who knows? Certainly and in my constructive conversations with Lisa Jackson she I think recognizes that the EPA the last thing they want is to create a reliability crisis.
And so I think this whole issue goes to developing a constructive outcome on this very complex issue.
My sense is that I remain reasonably confident or optimistic perhaps that we've been able to work through some tough complex issues in the past and in order to preserve a sensible economic outcome for our customers in order to provide a reliable source of electricity for the United States people will have to come to grips with reality on this issue.
Inc.</strong> And last question.
You guys have been talking about on Southern Power relatively flat earnings profile for the next couple of years.
When you look at the strength that you saw in the first quarter and the contracts you alluded to have you factored that into your thinking? Or is that incremental? How should we be thinking about Southern Power over the course of let's say this year and next? Ali I think we're still talking flat for the next year or 2 for Southern Power.
Yes there were some additional contract coverages in the first quarter and probably be some in the second quarter.
But as we look out in time there are other contracts moving in and out and that's all factored into our numbers.
One of the attractive features of Southern Power's portfolio is they have several sites that are expandable.
When you consider that their strike zone is gas [ph] in the Southeast we feel that they're going to be able to play a central role in relieving some of the problems that may arise as a result of this proposed regulation.
And your next question comes from the line of Mark Barnett of Morningstar.
Thanks for all the interesting commentary on the situation with the EPA there.
I have a couple of other questions here.
First you mentioned that you're still looking for a relatively minor positive in commercial and residential usage this year.
Is that correct? That's correct.
So I'm just wondering overall what were your sort of usage -- total usage forecast that's in your estimates for this year? Do you have the overall number? For the whole year we're looking at 2.2% growth in the retail side 2.9% growth in industrial 1.5% on commercial and 2.3% on our residential -- in our residential sector.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And the second unrelated question.
I just saw either today or yesterday that there was a biomass facility in Georgia that was looking for buyers.
And just sort of in that vein have you been looking at projects like that? And then sort of renewables elsewhere how does the landscape look for maybe acquisitions or new build? Well we're always in the hunt.
Renewables are attractive to us.
Renewables have certainly their limitations specifically with solar and wind.
You know we've invested -- and I think it's the nation's second-largest currently operating solar facility we invested with our partner Ted Turner in New Mexico.
And I think we're building the nation's largest biomass facility in Texas for the benefit of the customers of the city of Austin.
So we continue to look.
We're looking at other solar facilities in Alabama and in Georgia and in the coastline of Florida.
As well we're on record as being not very bullish on wind.
But even there we continue to look at some applications off the Georgia and Florida coasts.
With respect of new biomass the industrial boiler standard has really put a hold on those economics and has really chilled any further development there.
Okay.
Great.
You bet.
And your next question comes from the line of Angie Storozynski from Macquarie Capital.
Two questions.
I want to go back to the issue of the timeliness of the COL issuance.
I understand that so far you haven't heard of any potential delays.
But don't you think that at least there should be some safety review following the Fukushima accident and there could be some modifications of the reactor design requirements? And how is this possible that you would not have -- you shouldn't anticipate any delays? I mean it seems logical or likely.
Is it? No.
Let me kind of explain why I feel that way.
I think a lot of the questions that are being asked have already been answered.
Remember there are 2 processes in place here.
One is was we call the DCD that's the design control document which is essentially an independent review of whether the technical design features of the Westinghouse AP1000 in fact was in the public interest.
Was it in fact safe? It is the safest design of any generation of nuclear technology that's ever been introduced.
And we think that its design features are substantially better than anything in place right now.
And so that process goes forward.
This independent committee and the staff has recommended to the NRC to begin its rule making on the DCD.
The COL is a process which essentially completes the complete application with the NRC.
That is it takes the Westinghouse AP1000 design and puts it on our site and takes into account any adjustments that are site-specific including balance of plant issues.
All of those are what's anticipated to be complete by the end of this year.
Now your point about is there more interest are there going to be more comments? We think absolutely.
But in substance we think a lot of the comments and questions that are being raised have been asked and already answered.
Okay.
Now about Southern Power and what's happening in the Southeast given current Central Appalachian coal prices and natural gas prices.
I'm a little bit surprised that you do not expect much more upside or some upside to your earnings power at Southern Power given its gas blends and given that power from gas light [ph] facilities does seem to be cheaper than from coal plants using Central Appalachian coal at this point.
So remember our business model is kind of the anti-merchant right? We pride ourselves on securing the vast majority of capacity with long-term contracts typically divided into 2 segments.
One segment is associated with the capacity side of the equation so it's brick-and-mortar with a fixed profit stream associated with those plants whether they run or not.
The second segment of those contracts deals with energy which is largely fuel and some variable O&amp;M.
And there is some small profit potential associated with that largely availability profits and some other kind of small things.
We did see some of that in the first quarter.
Improvement in capacity factors went up by 4% quarter-over-quarter.
So that accrued to the benefits of some of these energy margins that I talked about.
But it wasn't an enormous number.
Where you will see us make substantially more net income is as we either cover the rest of our uncovered capacity or agree to build new capacity that is currently available to be done on certain expandable sites.
That's where we make all our money.
And your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Reeder of Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Quick question.
Looks like you guys tweaked around the usage projections for the full year and I kind of understand where you're going with industrial and commercial.
But I was a little surprised to see residential move up.
Can you I guess articulate if that's due to more customer growth? Or is it I guess household usage just based on the economic forecast? A little bit of both.
We forecasted an increase maybe 18 000 customers in 2011.
We picked up 15 000 last year so we'll have some increase in usage on a per-customer basis as well.
In the economy we keep looking at these other indicators.
And on our one slide I think it was Slide 10 we pointed to a number of new industrial announcements with job -- increases in jobs.
One of the -- one particular are these BRAC realignments which will start moving some people into some of our residential markets.
One in particular will be at Fort Benning which will happen by September of this year.
There'll be about 10 000 families moving into that particular area and a lot of that cannot be handled on on-based housing so there'll be some pickup on the residential side there.
So our forecasts pick up some of those trends and that's what we're looking at.
And our housing data continues to show steady improvement.
I think our unsold vacancies are 2.8% normal is 2.3%.
And we had been as high as around 4% 4.4%.
So we continue to get down.
And as we consume that inventory I think what you're seeing with some of the usage data is unoccupied houses.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So once -- kind of grow into that a little bit the trend of weather normalizing as residential usage decreases we should see a second half turnaround there? That's -- and our forecast kind of contemplated a second half pickup.
And your next question comes from the line of Brian Chin of Citi.
In your conversations with Lisa Jackson and other folks at the EPA did you ever get the sense that they might be a little bit less willing to extend the commentary period for the toxins rule as we get closer and closer to sort of the election cycle in 2012? I mean you're not the first -- you guys certainly aren't alone in suggesting that the commentary period's a little bit too brief.
I'm just wondering if you've gotten any sense -- are they feeling a little bit more pressure to try and get this thing wrapped up quickly? Our conversation was -- I'll just say it was very engaging and very constructive.
It didn't go to politics.
But I think the statements that we're able to make here are really pretty clear and compelling.
It's 1 000 -- roughly 1 000-page proposed rule 1 000-page reporting documentation some of which we haven't seen.
And typically on these MACTs there's been like 9 of them done in the past we've gotten kind of a minimum of 120 days and a maximum of a 180 days in order to respond.
This is arguably the most complex costly and biggest scale MACT that's ever been put in place.
And so I think that those facts stand on their own.
Listen I think Administrator Jackson's heart's in the right place.
We'll see what happens.
Great.
And then one completely unrelated question.
I remember at the end of last year you guys got a very interesting reserve mechanism for operating and maintenance in Alabama.
Is there a sense of at what level that reserve amount is at right now? Or can you comment on whether that reserve amount has grown over the last quarter? Brian at the end of the year it was $48 million.
And no it did not grow at the end of the first quarter so we're still standing at $48 million.
And your next question comes from the line of Nathan Judge of Atlantic Equities.
Just wanted to follow up on the actual implementation to spending on the additional environmental controls for the EPA’s HAP MACT rule.
Just as it relates to how this gets put into rates I believe this would be coming through an environmental writer but in Georgia -- can you just remind me of do you have to actually ask permission to spend the money and what's the mechanism for that to happen? Do you book AFUDC cash flow et cetera? All of the operating companies have environmental clauses.
At Georgia Georgia has an environmental clause as well and my understanding of that is it does go through the 3-year rate-making process in order for it to be recovered under rates.
If it's put into place before the rate hearing takes place it's simply deferred until the next case.
Or in excess of what's allowed currently in the current 3-year plan.
It would just be deferred until the next rate case.
And I think our experience is in Georgia we've never had a dollar of environmental spend not allowed.
In the interim would you book some type of AFUDC? Or how would that actually -- or do we need to -- would we actually not see anything until the next rate case? AFUDC is booked for any of the construction of environmental if that was your question.
Okay.
But you don't get any cash until after...
You know that's not true for Vogtle but...
Yes right.
But back on the environmental it's my understanding as you look at your CapEx and your rate base and things of that nature that your 5% to 7% growth is not taking into consideration of additional spend on additional CapEx things such as the environmental area.
Could you give us idea of how we can reconcile what you're looking for as additional spend on environmental and your long-term growth aspirations? Well as we outlined in our prepared remarks the CapEx range over the next 3 years is $700 million to $2.9 billion and those scenarios are all captured by our 5% to 7% growth estimates that we have outlined on earnings per share.
So...
It's just [indiscernible] be higher in the range than lower in the range.
But the range kind of adequately describes what we believe the future to be.
Yes.
So at the $2.9 billion we wouldn't see necessarily an increase in that growth rate.
That's correct.
Yes.
Right now we're at 5% to 7%.
That is our guidance long-term estimate.
Your next question comes from the line of Marc de Croisset of FBR Capital Markets.
Tom thanks for all your commentary on the EPA rules.
A quick question.
You mentioned in your prepared remarks I believe 80 gigawatts of scrubbers potentially required from the proposed toxics rule.
And that actually struck me as a large proportion of unscrubbed capacity in the U.S.
and I'm wondering what it applies if anything about your views on national level or Southeast level coal generation retirements.
Yes.
In fact let me -- it would represent about 1/2 of the total U.S.
coal because 1/2 of it is going to get closed down as a result of this rule rough numbers.
I think 70 000 megawatts nationally and there's estimates around that.
But 70 000 will be retired as a result of this rule.
And therefore the remaining scrubbers would be added to those that remain.
Got you.
And when you look -- as a follow-up as you look at your CapEx for forecast and I understand it's hard to be very specific at this point but you mentioned some pieces of equipment.
I heard backhouses.
I may have missed this but with scrubbers in there replacement gas generation? Did you have any sense for what the basket of CapEx might be composed of? Yes let me -- that is a wonderful question.
But I've got to describe it this way: It's going to be one or 2 things right? We are either going to control and therefore add a lot of environmental equipment.
Now remember we've got -- let's just say round numbers we have 20 000 megawatts of coal.
12 000 is what we consider our flagship units.
All of our flagship units will have scrubbers SCRs in place by 2013.
And some of those have backhouses.
Now with respect of the other 8 000 we have to make a decision on a unit-by-unit basis because of the complexity of the rule and we will only know that until we have a final rule.
Then we must make an assessment on a unit-by-unit basis.
We must take into account transmission alternatives.
We must design it we must procure it and then we must build it.
That's why you need to build a scrubber.
Our experience -- and we're more experienced at this than anybody in the industry about 54 months from beginning to end to make those assessments.
That's why the 3-year doesn't work.
For those units that we do not control we must replace and therefore we've got to make some assessment as to where that generating capacity will be.
One of the problems that people are tending to wash away here is the fact that there is this belief that there's lots of molecules of gas in the ground and it's at a reasonable cost.
Well we agree with that fact.
The problem is that gas needs to get to where we need it in terms of generating capacity.
And the pipe infrastructure does not exist to do that in this timeframe.
Therefore there has to be a build-out of gas infrastructure in order to support this evolution of our generating fleets across America.
We think that is another critical issue that has not been taken into account in addressing these timeframes.
So the final point I want to make here too.
This is not some theoretical national issue we are dealing with.
These issues get brought to home in the localities that we serve and there are potential enormous social consequences.
When you shut down a coal plant or a similarly sized gas plant you lose jobs on about a 6:1 ratio.
And these typically are high-paying jobs.
Remember too that these units are located in rural areas of the United States largely and that they may represent significant portions of the tax base of the communities that they are located in.
And in fact introduced some testimony in Congress a couple of weeks ago now where for -- I think it was Putnam County in Georgia the branch units represented about 19% of the tax base for that community.
There are other examples in our territory where its number is far bigger than that.
When you shut down those plants what do you say to those communities and how they're going to run their business just to serve the public at large? These are enormous consequences and really reach to the heights of policy level issues not just environmental issues.
And your next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan of Visium Asset management.
Tom if I heard you correct you expect 70 gigawatts to be retired as part of this law higher than what the EPA has come up with? Is that correct? Absolutely.
And then just I guess as I kind of look at it and I discussed it a little bit at your analyst meeting the easy way is to go to the President and get a 2-year extension and you don't have to go through this whole legislative process and everything.
So why haven't you -- or I guess because it might lead to divided views among the sector why haven't you guys just focused on that aspect of it which seems to be the easiest way in terms of implementation? Is that really hard to achieve? Yes.
Listen we've got a long track record of dealing with these kinds of issues.
I know people are kind of amped up about all this.
But here's our view.
For any major kind of body of legislation regulation what-have-you we always consider how to engage constructively to get the best solution for reliability and a sensible economic impact for the benefit our customers.
We will certainly engage in the regulatory process.
We will certainly engage in a regulatory process.
And if need be we will undertake litigation if that helps clarify the issues at hand.
So we're going to be doing all 3 in a parallel path.
But isn't getting the 2-year extension from the President the easiest way to achieve your objective? It certainly is one way.
The issue here though is we need to have -- remember what I said you're going to have to go unit-by-unit you're going to have to design you're going to have to procure equipment and you're going to have to secure a source of craft labor okay? So you need to know in order to schedule that work you need to know that you have sensible timeframes involved rather than trying to pancake control efforts and new capacity requirements new pipeline requirements everything on top of each other.
There has to be a sensible way to do this.
Even NRC there's a whole national effort under way to get arms around this issue.
If we were to get an extension from EPA and 2 years from the administration that would be plus 3 gets it to 2018.
That starts to make sense for us but we would need to have that knowledge at the outset.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Jenkins of the State of Wisconsin.
I was wondering if you could give a little detail you gave the plan for 2011 on CapEx and debt issuance and so forth.
I was wondering if you could update us on what you've done so far in 1Q first quarter? First quarter we've issued about $1 billion of new debt.
And the equity side we've issued $193 million.
And CapEx we have spent right just over $1 billion on CapEx.
I think our budget for the year is $4.9 billion.
So then based on that what was the total debt balance at the end of the quarter? I think we're around $20 billion.
Yes that's right.
Okay.
And then I had a couple of questions just related to comparisons of the earnings.
You mentioned that $0.01 of the other revenues is related to transmission increased transmission revenues.
Is that something that'll continue throughout the year or...
Yes we expect that to continue.
The UPS [ph] contracts which expired in association with the Miller plant that I described all of the transmission cost of revenues were recorded in  one line item there as wholesale revenues.
As those contracts were replaced with other plants the revenue will be recorded as transmission revenue.
So it will be picked up in that particular line item going forward.
And then the $0.05 on the wholesale revenues that you mentioned is that also showing up then in the results for Alabama Power on the last stage of the release? Yes that's correct.
Would there be any sort of -- since that return to the retail jurisdiction would you see some sort of a gain then on that side as that goes into retail rate base or...
Well the allowed retail rate base -- allowed range of returns in Alabama are 13% to 14.5%.
So it depends on the operations of that particular rate and how that particular plant impacts the operation of that rate.
And then the last thing I was wondering you mentioned on the $0.12 was primarily on the retail revenue impacts was primarily Georgia.
How much of that was Georgia? And will that be continuing as the quarters go on? I believe all of that was Georgia Power.
There were no operations at Alabama Power of RSC this year.
There's a little bit of Alabama Power excuse me from their environmental clause but it's very small.
Maybe $0.01 of the $0.12.
But no other operations at Mississippi or go [ph].
So will that Georgia impact continue on a quarter -- year-over-year comparison basis? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Vedula Murti of CDP.
I wanted to make sure -- following up on what Jonathan Reeder was asking about in terms of particularly residential sales growth I want to make sure if I thought about -- if I heard the numbers properly.
If you're down 0.9% in the first quarter on weather-adjusted basis and for the full year you're expecting a positive 2.3% on a weather-adjusted basis I know you indicated we're going to see a significant acceleration in the second half of the year and you cited some examples.
Given the other aspects that you cited such as gas prices and other things like that am I thinking that we really need to see 3% 3.5% the rest of the way in order 2.3% or am I comparing apples and oranges here? Well when we prepared that forecast it was probably mid- to somewhere around mid-2010 when we prepared that forecast.
And we obviously didn't pick up any of the $100 price of oil in our forecast at that time.
There's also other noise and weather data that we experienced that it's just very difficult to extract all that particular noise.
So -- but we still feel like the growth in the sales will come the second half in both sectors both residential and commercial.
And even if it doesn't I mean where we've been off on our forecast has been in industrial.
It's been way outstripping what we thought.
What was our original industrial estimate? 2.9.
And it's been 6.7.
Right.
So I mean that happened all last year.
It looks as if that'll happen also this year.
And then remember if you want to weight average the sales substantial part of our sales occurred June through first 2 weeks in September so we'll see what happens there.
So maybe just so let's put in context a 1% differential on weather-adjusted residential growth what type of gross margin differential for a full year would that kind of roughly amount to? That's about -- if you spread it across all classes a 1% increase is about $0.075.
That's against all classes.
Then residential would be like maybe 1/3 of that or something? Yes that's right.
And you have a follow-up from Andy Levi of Caris &amp; Company.
Vedula kind of brings up a good point.
And I guess is there any flexibility if the sales don't come around to cut costs as far as O&amp;M or other areas of the company? Sure absolutely.
We have that flexibility and that's all buried into our range as well.
That's why we give you a range in earnings per share growth.
Okay.
And then one other question.
On an earlier call one I guess it was not your competitors but another large utility was talking about EPA rules and they were discussing power prices looking forward.
And I'm just wondering what you guys view as -- again I know you're mainly regulated.
But I guess their view was that power prices in the $14 $15 they got as far as $16.
But the power prices weren't reflecting the new EPA rules.
And so I was wondering what your views are on that.
Well listen I'm going to speak to our markets.
Interestingly just letting all this happen in a disorganized way actually serves to accelerate our net income.
But we think that is bad for our customers.
Our interest is in providing a long-term view and providing the best reliability at the lowest prices with the best customer satisfaction possible.
That is what we are for.
But again you have no view on long-term wholesale prices? No view on their markets.
And at this time there are no further questions.
Sir are there any closing remarks? Well listen.
I just want to say thank you all for joining the call.
It's an exciting time at Southern.
We got a lot going on and a lot to be positive about in the future.
This industrial growth we think will sustain and we think eventually residential and commercial will follow with it.
And we'll continue to follow through on our disciplined approach to our business with our conservative outlook and our focus on customers.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the Southern Company First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Christian and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Southern Company Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Glen Kundert Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome to Southern Company's second quarter earnings call.
Joining me this afternoon are Tom Fanning Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Company; and Art Beattie Chief Financial Officer.
Let me remind you that we will make forward-looking statements today in addition to providing historical information.
There are various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements including those discussed in our Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
We'll be including slides as part of today's conference call.
These slides provide details on information that will be discussed in today's call.
You can access the slides on our Investor Relations website at www.southerncompany.com if you want to follow along during the presentation.
Now at this time I'll turn the call over to Tom Fanning Southern Company's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
Our second quarter earnings show that we continue to produce favorable results.
Art will share more details on those results in a few minutes.
Since assuming the CEO role of Southern Company I have been very public about setting 5 clear priorities for our company.
I thought it might be interesting to review our progress against those priorities.
First preserve and enhance the circle of life.
Our business model is predicated on making customers the primary focus of everything we do.
We continue to excel at bringing value to our customers.
Our reliability remains outstanding.
Our prices are still significantly below national averages and our customer service ratings continue to place us among the best in the industry.
Second succeed with Vogtle units 3 and 4 and Plant Ratcliffe at Kemper County.
I'm happy to report that both of these projects remain on budget and on schedule.
As with any large complex undertaking we will always face challenges but we are managing these challenges in a diligent intensive and workmanlike manner.
When completed both projects will provide great value to our customers.
Focusing for a moment on Plant Vogtle I know you're interested in the timing of the issuance of the amendment to the design certification and the combined construction and operating license or COL for Vogtle units 3 and 4.
It is our understanding that the NRC will issue a revised schedule in a few weeks clarifying the timeframes for these critical documents.
We are confident that the revised schedule will include approval to the amendment of the design certification this fall.
We are also confident that the NRC has the discretion to issue the COL shortly following the approval of the amendment to this design certification also in 2011.
Certain administrative procedures related to effective date of the COL could push the issuance date of the COL into early 2012.
If the commission decides to issue the COL around the effective date then the NRC has the option to approve our request which we filed some 2 years ago for a second Limited Work Authorization or LWAB in the fall.
This would enable us to maintain our schedule with additional construction activities related to the Nuclear Island while we wait for the final COL.
Getting back to priorities.
Third engage in the development of a sensible national energy policy.
We have been active with all of our external publics projects in arguing for a sensible national energy policy one that balances the need for the best reliability with a reasonable economic consequence and an optimal environmental impact all critical to creating an environment that fosters job creation and strengthens the economy and all for the benefit of our customers.
First we argue for all the arrows in the quiver the need to develop all the available generation resources necessary to meet the needs of this nation's energy future including nuclear 21st-century coal natural gas renewables and energy efficiency.
We are the only company in our industry actively engaged in all of these sectors and we have committed more than $20 billion to developing this 21st-century generation portfolio.
Second we are committed to technology development and are the only company in our industry with a robust proprietary research and development organization.
We successfully developed and implemented our own environmental control equipment and our own generation technology like our TRIG project used for Plant Ratcliffe at Kemper County Mississippi.
Fourth is to promote Smart Energy.
We have been active in developing all areas of smart technologies as we call them: Smart Power or generation; Smart Grid or transportation including Smart Meters; and Smart Choices essentially focused on those value chains that may emerge beyond the meters.
With respect to Smart Power and Smart Grid our path is clear and our progress is significant.
For Smart Choices because of how uncertain that environment currently appears we will maintain a conservative posture and explore opportunities with a number of option sets.
And fifth value and develop our people.
Southern Company is renowned for our deep-end strength and our leadership development practices.
We remain committed to these practices and have added key external talents to our roster.
Enhancing our "whats" -- that is our skills and our experience base and further developing our culture our "hows " will make this company successful for years to come.
At this point I'll turn the call over to Art Beattie our Chief Financial Officer for further discussion of our financial highlights for the second quarter and our earnings estimates for the third quarter.
Thanks Tom.
In the second quarter of 2011 we earned $0.71 a share compared with $0.62 a share in the second quarter of 2010 or an increase of $0.09 a share.
On a year-to-date basis we earned $1.20 a share in the first 6 months of 2011 compared with $1.22 a share for the same period a year ago a decrease of $0.02 a share.
Let's turn now to the major factors that drove our second quarter numbers compared with the second quarter of 2010.
First the negative factors.
Increased depreciation and amortization reduced our earnings by $0.05 a share in the second quarter of 2011 compared with the second quarter of 2010.
This increase is primarily due to the expiration of the Georgia Power cost of removal accounting order at the conclusion of 2010 and to increased environmental transmission and distribution investments.
A decrease in wholesale revenue in our traditional business reduced our earnings by $0.01 a share in the second quarter of 2011 compared with the same period in 2010.
This reduction primarily represents the expiration of a long-term wholesale contract for Plant Miller capacity which now serves retail customers at Alabama Power.
Income taxes reduced our earnings by $0.01 a share in the second quarter of 2011 compared with the second quarter of 2010.
Other income and deductions primarily lower AFUDC equity reduced our earnings by $0.02 a share in the second quarter of 2011 compared with the second quarter of 2010.
Taxes other than income taxes reduced our earnings by $0.01 a share in the second quarter of 2011 compared with the second quarter of 2010.
Finally an increase in the number of shares outstanding reduced our earnings by $0.02 a share in the second quarter of 2011 compared with the second quarter of 2010.
Let's now turn to the positive factors that drove earnings in the second quarter of 2011.
Retail revenue effects in our traditional business added a total of $0.14 a share to our earnings in the second quarter of 2011 compared with the second quarter of 2010.
Most of this increase was the result of regulatory actions at Georgia Power that became effective in January 2011 as a result of increased environmental transmission and distribution investments.
Included in this is $0.03 a share reflecting an increase in revenues associated with Georgia Power's cash recovery of financing costs for Vogtle 3 and 4.
This rate also known as Georgia Power's NCCR tariff is expected to save customers approximately $300 million.
Increased usage among existing customers added $0.02 a share in the second quarter of 2011 compared with the second quarter of 2010.
Weather in the second quarter of 2011 added $0.01 a share into earnings when compared to the second quarter of 2010.
Other operating revenues primarily increased transmission revenues added $0.01 a share in the second quarter of 2011 compared with the second quarter of 2010.
Decreased interest expense in our traditional business increased our earnings by $0.01 a share in the second quarter of 2011 compared with the second quarter of 2010.
Finally improved results at Southern Power added $0.02 a share to our earnings in the second quarter of 2011 compared with the second quarter of 2010.
This increase was due to a combination of new long-term contracts and higher energy margins.
In conclusion we had $0.12 of negative items compared with $0.21 of positive items or a positive change of $0.09 a share over the second quarter of 2010.
So overall our quarter came in at $0.71 per share.
Before I discuss our earnings estimate for the third quarter I'd like to update you on the economy and several important regulatory matters.
First total weather-normalized retail sales for the second quarter of 2011 increased by 1.5% over the second quarter of 2010 driven primarily by stronger sales to our industrial customers.
Our industrial sales increased by 3.3% in the second quarter of 2011 compared with the second quarter of 2010.
The most significant increases were in petroleum refining up 18.7%; primary metals up 13%; pipelines up 10.9%; and transportation up 4.5% compared with the second quarter of 2010.
This industrial recovery is very broad-based with all major segments except for the housing-related segments of stone clay and glass and textiles experiencing year-over-year growth.
The continued growth in industrial sales represents the continuation of a trend that started in mid-2009 and is driven primarily by strong export sales.
The Port of Savannah Georgia for example achieved an all-time high in second quarter activity.
Container volumes in Savannah increased almost 9% during the second quarter of 2011 compared with the same period in 2010 and the combined value of exports from Georgia and Alabama increased nearly 21%.
Adjusting for weather residential sales increased by 1.2% in the second quarter.
Total personal income is still strengthening up 4% in the second quarter of 2011 compared with the same period a year ago.
But consumer confidence continues to be affected by rising prices and slower-than-expected net job growth.
Some of the job gains in our territory resulting from new business development were offset by losses in non-manufacturing jobs primarily state and local government contributing to an overall unemployment rate that is slightly above the national average.
Manufacturing employers meanwhile continue to achieve productivity improvements which offsets the need to hire new workers.
However as the recovery continues improvements in productivity should yield to the additional hiring of workers which should help stimulate growth in the consumer sector.
Residential new connects are essentially flat and residential customer counts have increased by approximately 2 100 since the second quarter of 2010.
While low these numbers reflect the loss of approximately 7 000 customers due to the devastating tornadoes in April.
However most of these customers remain in the area and are living in temporary accommodations.
Homeowner vacancy rates are rising but remain below peak recession levels while construction activity remains sluggish but is consistent with our forecast.
Commercial sales remained flat on a weather-normal basis in the second quarter of 2011 compared with the second quarter of 2010.
Some data indicate that markets may be stabilizing such as the ISM Non-Manufacturing Index which has been positive for the past 16 months 'and sales tax collections which have been positive for the last 12 months.
This quarter we reassembled our economic roundtable group which consists of several key customers and economists from the region.
Overall the group was more cautious than 6 months ago with lower GDP expectations for 2011 of 2.4% to 2.8% versus earlier estimates of 3% to 3.5%.
Most of the participants in our roundtable said that they expect stronger GDP growth in the second half of 2011 of between 2.8% and 3.5%.
Driving this trend will be continued growth in exports and the auto industry which is driving strong growth across many sectors especially chemicals and primary metals.
Construction-related industries such as stone clay and glass and textiles are expected to remain flat.
Finally most participants see the manufacturing industry continuing to focus on productivity gains which boost long-term competitiveness but restrain short-term employment growth.
Meanwhile we continue to see announcements of new business expansions and job additions in our service territory similar to those we shared with you over the past several months.
More recent announcements include: Johnson Controls a critical supplier to Mercedes-Benz is opening a facility in Cottondale Alabama that will create approximately 185 new jobs.
BAE Systems Southeast Shipyards in Mobile is adding 400 new positions.
And Toyo Tires in Bartow County Georgia plans to add up to 470 new jobs.
In the aggregate we have in our economic pipeline more than 230 active projects with the potential to yield nearly 20 000 new jobs.
Data indicate that activity in the pipeline in the first 6 months of 2011 is likely 18% to 20% higher than the comparable period a year ago.
So interest in the Southeast region remains strong and our future growth prospects are bright.
Turning now to the latest regulatory developments for our companies.
On July 8 Gulf Power asked the Florida Public Service Commission for a $93.5 million increase in base rates.
This is Gulf Power's first base rate request in 10 years and will be used to offset rising costs in day-to-day operations and to also strengthen Northwest Florida's electric infrastructure.
Gulf Power has asked for a portion of this increase slightly more than 1/3 to be implemented in September of 2011 pending a final decision on the full request in early 2012.
Also on July 12 the Alabama Public Service Commission voted to eliminate a tax-related adjustment under Alabama Power's rate structure effective with billings in October of this year.
The purpose of this revision is to eliminate a portion of the tax-related adjustments that have been rendered obsolete within Alabama Power's current forward-looking rate-setting mechanisms.
This change will result in additional fourth quarter 2011 revenue of approximately $30 million for Alabama Power which will partially replenish the natural disaster reserve that we utilized following the tornadoes in April.
In 2012 additional revenue of $150 million is expected as a result of this order.
Accordingly Alabama Power has agreed to a moratorium on any 2012 increases through Rate RSE.
My final regulatory update concerns the agreement Georgia Power reached last week with the public interest advocacy staff of the Georgia Public Service Commission.
Both parties agreed to withdraw their recommendations for a risk-sharing or incentive mechanism related to the construction of Vogtle units 3 and 4.
We believe the settlement and the hearings that preceded it reinforce the significant protections already afforded our customers under current Georgia law.
The hearings and negotiations also highlighted the additional $1 billion of value Georgia Power expects to capture for customers from the time of the original certification of Vogtle 3 and 4.
The agreement is subject to final approval by the Georgia Power -- excuse me the Georgia Public Service Commission which is scheduled to vote on August 2.
Turning now to an estimate of our third quarter earnings.
Our estimate for the third quarter of 2011 is $1.02 per share.
As a reminder as we said in January of this year our earnings guidance for 2011 is $2.48 to $2.56 per share.
At this point I'll turn the call back to Tom for his closing remarks.
Thank you Art.
Before I close I'd like to recognize the heroic efforts of our employees in responding to the tragic storms that struck our territory this past April.
These storms which caused a loss of life and severe property damage were among the most powerful natural disasters ever to affect our region.
It resulted in a temporary loss of service to some 0.5 million customers in Alabama Georgia and Mississippi and more than $220 million in damage to our system.
And yet within just 7 days of the initial storm impact power had been restored to 100% of those customers who were able to receive service.
This accomplishment is a tribute not only to the efforts of our line crews generating plants and customer service personnel but also to the reliability of our SouthernLINC Wireless network which proved crucial in the restoration effort.
Our employees worked tirelessly in the wake of an unprecedented tragedy and I couldn't be more proud of the contributions they made.
Bob Dawson a 45-year Southern Company employee and the CEO of SouthernLINC is retiring in October.
His service to our customers in the Southeast has been immense and he will be missed.
We wish him and his family the best.
In closing we are encouraged by the first 6 months of 2011.
Our businesses are performing well and the industrial side of our economy is continuing to drive a much-needed regional recovery.
We believe that the inherent attractiveness of our region to new business development will help fuel a gradual return to prerecession unemployment levels.
Our primary focus remains as it has been for the past 63 years to provide a reliable and affordable supply of energy to meet the needs of our customers and the energy requirements all over the Southeastern United States.
One last comment before I go to Q&amp;A.
It's been announced that our Vice President of Investor Relations Glen Kundert will be retiring at the end of this year and we will honor him appropriately a little bit later in the months ahead.
Replacing him will be Dan Tucker and I'm sure you'll all have fun getting to know Dan.
As well today is a notable day in that Jimmy Stewart our long-time Investor Relations professional is experiencing his 50th earnings call.
Well done Jimmy.
So operator at this point Art and I are ready to take your questions.
So let's now take the first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jim von Riesemann with UBS.
A question for you.
But in light of AEP's announcement on their scrapping of their carbon capture plants can you talk a little bit about your own commitment to your own CCS facilities and what your expectations are? Yes.
In light of this notion about proposing a sensible national energy policy we've long felt that preserving coal as a vital resource to meet the nation's energy future is critically important.
And so in light of that need plus this notion of being a leader in research and development we have continued in a robust way to push forward on carbon capture research.
We're doing it in very visible ways on both a pre-combustion and post-combustion basis.
The pre-combustion method is essentially our TRIG technology.
Once we gasify the lignite in Mississippi we will then strip out 65% of the CO2 and our carbon capture process there will use the CO2 in enhanced oil recovery.
So in fact we generate symbiosis between increasing oil production in that region of the United States and increasing a supply of electricity which while using coal will have an environmental signature roughly equivalent to natural gas.
As well we are going forward with our project at Plant Barry.
This is a post-combustion carbon capture effort where we take -- we tap into the effluent streams of that plant.
We will take the CO2 out of there and we will ship it via pipeline to the Citronelle Oil Fields north of Mobile.
Likewise that has symbiosis in driving more domestic energy supplies for the Southeast United States.
But we're also doing a lot more.
Many of you know that in Wilsonville Alabama we host the carbon -- National Carbon Capture research facility.
We also at Plant Daniel in Mississippi have demonstrated that we can sequester some 3 000 tons of CO2 in an underground geologic formation.
And that has proved to be exceedingly stable.
And we're also looking elsewhere around the United States or at least the Southeast United States to evaluate different types of geologic formations to assess their suitability for these activities into the future.
We think this is an important part of R&amp;D and that's why we argue for this as part of our sensible national energy policy.
Our next question comes from Daniel Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Just first off focus on the Vogtle and potential for any delays there.
Can you just walk us through you -- when you would expect a decision out of the NRC on expanded site work license and then how CapEx would get phased down or adjusted and -- which you guys gave at the analyst day? I think that was not provided.
Yes.
So we try to be very careful with the words we have.
We are still confident of achieving schedule and all that.
We haven't changed our confidence a bit.
We really see 2 avenues for this to occur.
One avenue is once we get the DCD affirmed this fall that the NRC has the ability to issue the COL right then or within 10 days.
Assuming -- there is a chance that there are administrative issues in which the NRC may want to issue the COL coincident with the effective date of the COL.
The administrative issues -- and it's purely administrative are that once the proposed COL is put forth that it goes to OMB for a scoring process.
And that is a process that is designed to assure that the recipients of the regulation are not overburdened with regulation.
The second is that the COL will be published in the Federal Register.
That takes about 30 days.
So if in the event the COL -- the issuance of the COL is delayed to the effective date then the NRC has the ability to issue a second limited work authorization.
We filed that LWA -- we call it LWAB here.
We filed it some 2 years ago and we've always contemplated that there may be a need to allow the NRC to continue -- for us to continue work on the site in a manner that will preserve schedule and cost.
And in fact that is something that we think is sensible and we believe that is an alternative course of action that is just as good as receiving the COL -- practically just as good as receiving the COL this fall.
The whole issue is to preserve schedule and cost.
We think we can do that either way.
Okay.
Good.
And then I guess just the other question if you could give some updated thoughts on any implications of how the CSAP Rules -- and if that's going to help make a new -- firm up any new decisions on environmental CapEx on the plants where you guys are still evaluating your options? Well I'll let Art hit the CapEx.
When we look at the Cross State Rule there are the issues related to the timeframe that are espoused particularly the 2012 timeframe.
I guess what that drives us to with that kind of timeframe is to use allowances and perhaps revising our dispatch ranking in order to accommodate the requirements of the rule.
In terms of the generation and transmission expansion plan implications which are really the farther-reaching applications really we think that at least for Southern Company the kind of dominant document if you will looks more like HAPs MACT that our decisions under the Cross State Rule are consistent with the HAPs MACT proposal that's put in place.
Art would you want to say anything about CapEx? Yes.
Dan the CapEx really -- based on what Tom says is the HAPs MACT will dictate what we do equipment-wise since it is a larger rule and the rules are a little more meaningful there.
The -- we do not expect any change from the CapEx numbers that we've given you already and we'll relook those in the fall.
And once we get the final rules hopefully we'll have a better view into -- as to what we'll actually be doing.
But at this point we don't have any change contemplated as a result of the Cross State Rule.
Our next question comes from Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
A quick question.
This may be a kind of arcane one.
But we were just puzzled by the weather-adjusted sales disclosure where it looked like weather helped the residential segment but it hurt the commercial segment.
You had sales down absolute but then flat weather-adjusted.
Jonathan those are weather-normal numbers.
Weather's removed so residential for the quarter was up 1.2% and commercial was basically flat once you took weather out.
That's what we were trying to understand is why weather would have been a negative impact on the commercial segment.
Well you're still losing customers on the commercial side -- not a lot but some reduction in customer numbers on the commercial end of the business.
That's the mitigating...
Okay.
But my question was why was the number worse including weather than it was excluding weather? We're checking here.
Yes.
I think a little bit of what you're seeing is some variance in the use of air conditioning for example.
For commercial it may be a little more intermittent than it might be for the residential.
There are -- Jonathan we'd have to get back to you on that with any other explanation.
Okay.
It was essentially better.
[ph] A similar explanation is commercial just responds differently to the different weather patterns than we've seen in residential.
Okay.
And then -- well the second thing I -- there was no real sort of mention in the quarterly drivers of kind of O&amp;M generally.
Could you comment at all onto the how -- it seems that you certainly controlled O&amp;M better than we thought you would this quarter.
Anything you could say there? Yes.
O&amp;M is basically under our plan but year-to-year I think they're actually up a little bit on a year-to-date basis.
For the quarter I think they're pretty flat.
The storms in Alabama has a tendency to push some of their what would normally be O&amp;M expense into their storm reserve because of so many resources being applied to that restoration effort.
And you saw a little bit of that in Georgia as well.
So some of it may be timing as well Jonathan.
So any -- could you hazard a guess as to how much of what would have been O&amp;M was effectively capital or storm adjustment? No I really don't have a number on that.
I believe Alabama was under their budget by -- our plan by about $20 million.
So if you were to add that back in I think you'd see a more normal growth in non-fuel O&amp;M.
The breakout of O&amp;M to capital in the storm.
The breakdown is basically a total cost of -- and these numbers are revised downward from our original estimates of $175 million to $220 million.
About $40 million of that would be O&amp;M and the rest would be capital.
So by far it's a capital event than it is an O&amp;M event.
Our next question comes from Brian Chin with Citi.
Can I just go back to Dan's question on the COL timeline? If I can just reiterate my understanding to you and then just tell me where I might be understanding things wrong.
The chain of events here is sometime soon there will be a revised NRC schedule that outlines the timeline.
Yes.
After that the NRC will approve the amendment to the design certification sometime this fall.
That's right.
The NRC has the ability to -- shortly after the amendment of the design certification is approved the NRC has the ability to at that time issue the COL.
That's right.
And that -- if they do that it will likely happen before year end.
That's right.
And then shortly thereafter sometime in early 2012 the COL effective date will likely occur.
Following the timeframe of these administrative procedures.
Right.
Now based on -- there's a possibility that the COL issuance and effective date would take place at the same time in 2012 due to OMB scoring issues and the Federal Register timelines.
So if that is done where the COL issuance takes place in early 2012 then the NRC has the ability to issue a Limited Work Authorization that would allow you guys to keep on schedule? That's right and we filed for that 2 years ago.
Okay.
Great.
That's all I...
You have that exactly right by the way.
Okay.
Great.
And then the last thing is do you know when the NRC schedule is going to be issued? We think in the next few weeks.
Our next question comes from Steve Fleishman with Bank of America.
A couple of questions.
First just to beat this horse one more time.
In that scenario where the NRC doesn't issue the COL until the...
Effective date.
OMB and the effective date we would have essentially already seen some kind of document sent to OMB that they support it? Well upon the design control -- the design certification rule.
So you will know essentially all of the amendments after the design certification rule okay? But it will occur this year.
So once the rule goes for scoring to OMB you know what it is.
Right.
So you know you're getting a COL then you just don't have it.
Exactly.
That's why we're calling it administrative.
And we think there is a legal means for them to issue the COL because of that well within 10 days.
And then if they want to delay and -- not delay but if they want to just wait until the administrative process unfolds and the COL becomes what they call effective then they have the LWAB that they can issue that's been essentially asked for 2 years ago.
And what is the scoring? It's a process that was put in place under the Obama administration to relieve the administrative burden of new regulations.
And so OMB for any major new regulation does an assessment as to its effect upon issue-ee essentially.
But we're the sole issue-ee here.
Okay.
Okay so that shouldn't be an issue then? No.
Okay.
And then you didn't talk much in your remarks today about your views -- at least it sounds like your views on the opposition to the timeline of HAPs MACT and changes that you'd like.
Could you -- I know your comments will probably be filed soon to EPA.
Could -- and I know you're pursuing other initiatives.
Could you just give us an update on both what your comments might be on the rules as well as the other initiatives you might be looking at? Oh sure.
Well Steve I think we've been reasonably public on our position there and this goes all the way back to my speech before the United States Chamber of Commerce.
And then I testified before Congress.
And then in a variety of other forms we've been very consistent with this.
We think for a variety of reasons the EPA is overreaching on the HAPs MACT rule.
We think that the comment schedule was way too short.
Now they did give us 30 days more than the original 60 days but for any other MACT rule it has been somewhere between 120 and 180 days.
So giving us 90 days still is far short and this is the most far-reaching of the MACT rules they've ever done.
Remember this thing has -- almost 1 000 pages long 1 000 pages of supporting documentation.
So then they've given us 30 days more but they haven't changed the effective date.
And so therefore I just wonder how EPA is going to process all of that information to create an effective rule that will be in place I guess this November.
So we think the effective date of the rule -- so this November date this year we think is too short for EPA to assimilate the comments.
And then finally I know that I've talked to a number of members of the administration and a variety of other people.
And I know people say "Oh well this is a DOJ issue." The DOJ was very clear in their order back to the EPA that if EPA felt they needed more time to assess this issue the DOJ was positively disposed to do that.
Secondly the EPA on their own has developed the thresholds for the measurement and the whole regime as to how this rule would be implemented.
And we think the thresholds in some of the new tests -- and I think I pointed out for example the condensable PM standard.
This is all brand new stuff.
And I know from time to time people say "Oh well you knew this was coming." No one knew that this condensable PM standard was going to be put forth.
And I'm just guessing not many people or very few know how to measure it in the first place.
So look for a variety of reasons we think this whole process has been flawed.
We will file our comments on August 4.
Our next question comes from Andy Levi with Caris &amp; Company.
Just on the LWAC so I guess the NRC would have to issue that.
How would that work? Yes that's right.
It's LWAB like boy.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
Yes no problem.
The NRC would issue that Okay.
And that would happen around when in your opinion? Sometime following the affirmation of the DCD.
Okay.
And when do you expect that to happen? This fall.
This fall.
Okay.
And then just -- for Art just on the quarterly guidance and also maybe on the yearly guidance I guess what -- in the first quarter you were down $0.10 versus last year right? $0.50 versus $0.60 and then the second quarter you're up $0.09.
Right.
Third quarter you're projecting up $0.04.
That would put you up $0.03 for the year gets you to about $2.40.
So you'd actually have to have a pretty sizable bump in the fourth quarter.
Is that kind of what the expectation is? Or are you guys being conservative on the third quarter? Just trying to figure out the numbers.
Yes you'll see some -- the bigger pick-ups because of the COR from last year the COR effects.
That won't -- you won't see much of that in the third and fourth quarter and those will be reflected in rates this year as cash rates.
So those will be reflected as additional pieces of gain.
The -- you had a lot of weather in the numbers last year as well in the third quarter.
So that's a big driver.
Okay.
And then on Southern Power I guess at least I was [ph] -- I was expecting kind of flat earnings for the year.
Is that -- do you think it's -- you're looking like you might be up for the year? Is that possible? Yes.
Southern Power is doing better than we expected.
Most of that is energy margins and their ability to -- with those low-cost gas units are able to sell into the markets.
Their capacity levels are increased much over last year and their energy margins have reflected that result.
As to whether or not -- there were also some new contracts on the year-to-date or year-over-year basis that reflected a lot of increase but a lot of those contracts started midyear last year.
So you won't see the contract piece be additive for the rest of the year but you could see some additions on the margin side.
Yes.
Andy let me jump in on a couple of these too.
Fourth quarter of '10 I guess it -- what was it? $0.18.
About $0.18 was abnormally low for us.
Absolutely.
If you go back in prior years -- I just went and looked it up real quick.
I mean it's easy -- not easy but I think it's normal for us to expect $0.30 or more.
So with the normal progression a normal fourth quarter very much in the strike zone there.
This other thing with Southern Power is really pretty interesting.
I know we've chatted with many of you in the past about our strategy about Southern Power.
And I think what we mentioned to you was that just in -- I know it's a topic of conversation early last year 2010 and perhaps even in '09 keeping our powder dry a little bit while we assess what was going on with environmental regulations.
As you all know and it's happened with us -- heck we've gone from 70% of our energy generation from coal to now about 52% from coal with gas picking up the difference.
And so what we're seeing is this notion of keeping our powder dry at Southern Power has turned out to be really good.
And in fact in this period before HAPs MACT takes effect we're seeing that they've been able to generate through energy margins more net income.
Their capacity factor for their combined cycle units has gone up this year to 50% from say a similar period last year 38%.
So we have reason to believe that they are going to do better this year certainly than what we thought they would at the beginning of the year.
And we think frankly there's pretty good reason why that should continue.
Okay.
That sounds good.
And then just one last quick question back on the...
Andy one more thing I just want to say.
No no no I was just kind of thinking of it myself.
But remember we have a pretty sustainable idea of covering their capacity with long-term contracts.
We actually have -- if you start thinking about what might happen 2015 and beyond assuming we don't get any relief from schedule or consequence of HAPs MACT plus 316b plus everything else coming down the road we actually think Southern Power is very well positioned from a long-term standpoint to do well in the years ahead.
That's great.
And then back on the LWAB.
Yes.
That allows you to begin the nuclear construction phase? So the LWAB we've already done some work under LWAA right? And then we've made so much progress to date.
LWAB as it was filed 2 years ago was very kind of defined.
Essentially what we will do is put rebar on the plant and then pour concrete on the base of the plant.
So that'll be very sufficient for us to maintain schedule and cost estimates.
Our next question comes from Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
A couple of questions.
What's a typical Alabama RSC adjustment relative to the $150 million that you've been authorized? Well there's not a typical adjustment.
Some year -- they didn't have an adjustment this year under their RSC mechanism.
They're authorized to increase rates under the rate no more than 8% over any 2-year timeframe.
So if they have a 3% increase in one year then they can't increase rates the following year by more than 5% and that's the way the rate works.
So there is no normal increase.
As you know they've got other rate mechanisms as well such as rates for their environmental investments and expenses but the $150 million or so that it will raise in 2012 is just under a 3% increase in base rates.
That helps a lot.
The other question or one of the other questions kind of relative to your $0.62 guidance can you kind of parse out the pieces? I guess you got about $0.6 $0.07 of weather.
I'm going to pick [indiscernible] while Art fools around with that.
We only do guidance once a year and that's the range and then we update our guidance in October once a year.
These are just estimates.
So we're -- we tend to -- we yell at each other about that here.
So Art's ready to go.
For the quarter or the year-to-date period? Quarter.
Against the guidance weather was up about $0.07.
Estimates.
Yes estimates.
And Southern Power is up about $0.02.
Well that'll -- there's a lot of other cats and dogs but that'll get you there.
Okay.
Then lastly there's been some articles about in the press about you talking about potential for cost overruns at Vogtle but your language sounds like you're pretty confident of getting this done on budget.
Can you kind of just address the dichotomy there? I'm not aware of anybody talking about cost overruns of Vogtle.
I look around the room and I'm not aware of it.
Look there was an independent evaluator report that is part of the regular process in reviewing remember every 6 months the cost associated with constructing Plant Vogtle.
And I think he highlighted in a report that got some media play some concerns he had.
The only thing -- I would just caution everybody on this call.
I completely understand that interest in Vogtle 3 and 4 and its schedule and its cost has white-hot interest.
Well it certainly does for us as well.
And our view is we will always have challenges on a construction project of this magnitude and of this complexity.
So really our test is how we manage these various ebbs and flows in the progress of the project.
Our sense is and has been that we're on budget on schedule.
The other thing that I would just want to highlight here -- we've said it before but I'd love to say it again.
Since certification we believe we brought over $1 billion of value for the benefit of Georgia's customers associated with Vogtle 3 and 4 and that now is part of the permanent record at Georgia Power company.
And now when they evaluate the progress on the project that's part of the context in which they evaluate our progress.
Our next question comes from Marc de Croisset with FBR Capital Markets.
If I may I'd love to ask a quick question on your thoughts on the Cross State Air Pollution Rule.
One of the arguments that I think the EPA has made is that SO2 compliance could be achieved by having utilities use existing scrubbers more effectively and as a result that would be one of the means to reduce -- to achieve SO2 compliance.
And I'd be very interested in your reaction to this argument.
And have you seen any indication in the industry that -- or in your region that scrubbers over the last several years may not have been utilized as often or as effectively as they could be? Yes.
So there's a lot of layers to that question.
Let me hit just kind of a couple of them.
And I just can't contain myself but start with a commercial.
About half the scrubbers that we've put in place -- or I think maybe 2/3 of them are the Chiyoda scrubbers that we developed in our R&amp;D facility along with the Chiyoda company out of Japan.
And those companies use a fiberglass wall if you will for the bubbling structure where we take out the harmful effluents.
We've been able to put those in place on time under budget and their performance has exceeded our expectations and normal industry performance.
It's just another example of how R&amp;D  and also the Tianjin Construction Services Group -- we have about 1 500 1 600 people in Birmingham who really work to the benefit of our customers.
Now when I evaluate the effectiveness of the scrubber technologies that we have put in place I would say that there's not a whole lot more that we're going to do to improve their performance.
They already perform in an excellent manner.
I would argue -- and I just know this.
I'm not going to throw names out but certain people around the industry have come to us for some help in trying to support their scrubber programs.
And either it's a flaw in the technology or a -- because they rely on third-party constructors they don't perform as they might have.
And also sometimes scrubbers were deployed in order to meet certain shall we say merchant market credit thresholds that really don't operate in as an efficient manner as possible in order to generate thresholds that is required by the EPA.
And then finally some of the technologies that have been deployed were deployed years ago and just are not the latest and greatest technologies.
So when EPA considers "Oh well if you just operate more efficiently " I think you've got a very tough question here.
In other words are you going to be able to run your scrubbers more efficiently? Are you going be able to throw in DSI or trona or any of that other stuff? Remember too it's not just a simple matter of well if you just run your scrubbers more efficiently you're going to comply.
Well if you add up the aggregate effect of all the other issues they're raising including PM standards where this DSI they cause a problem on the PM side of the equation it's just not that easy.
Tom just one clarification.
Can a scrubber be effective but utilized infrequently? Is that a possibility? Can -- so even -- I'll just repeat that.
Even if a scrubber is effective at removing SO2 can you use it less often at your discretion? You can.
Wait so the answer to the question is yes.
Now I kind of want to understand that.
In other words it would be -- that what you're getting to is a coal unit being used more as an intermediate or peaking kind of facility where you might run it -- I can't imagine in this future environment you're going to run unscrubbed coal.
Our next question comes from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Tom you went into a lot of detail on HAPs MACT about some of the concerns timeline et cetera.
Would love kind of similar feedback on the Cross States rule whether it's timing that concerns you whether it's how the allocations were given out on a state-by-state or a plant-by-plant basis whether it's something else.
Michael at the risk of being glib it's all of the above.
And when we -- honestly when we think about this sometimes what you see is a significant overlap between rules.
And certainly that's the case we think with this Cross State thing and HAPs MACT.
Timeframes and all the other issues you raise are absolutely legitimate here and kind of what the value of the allowances are and what they might be in the future regime.
Is all of this warranted? Is the net effect -- I have to keep going back to -- remember our business model puts customers in the middle of everything we do.
And the question that I think should be on the table for everybody especially the context of these national debt negotiations and a variety of other issues that are facing our national economy is why now.
When we consider the potential impact to the price of electricity in the United States and how important that is to the national economy what impact is that going to have? Our own estimate by our own economist would say that if the price of electricity goes up 20% that could represent a reduction in national GDP of about 0.5% and that could represent the loss of between 1 million and 1.5 million jobs.
And what is the likelihood -- it may be early to make this call on whether the court and whether it's the same court that put it back on remand or another court -- I'm not sure of the legal path.
I would assume that's the D.C.
circuit -- would consider a stay or an injunction if the EPA proves inflexible on timeframes? So it's the D.C.
circuit and we believe something needs to happen to create a more sensible approach.
So when we think about this we go to the kind of 3 prongs of reliability economic consequence and environmental impact.
And right now we're out of balance I think with the proposal of these rules.
We've got to come back -- and I don't know how it will happen but we think to the D.C.
circuit.
There may be some chance there.
Got it.
One more of a modeling-oriented question.
How should we think about outside of the core subsidiaries meaning the regulated subs and Southern Power? What costs exist at the holding company level or at the parent level? If I remember correctly you had $1 billion $1.5 billion of combined short- and long-term debt.
Just curious about other cost there if any.
Well a lot of those are corporate cost at the Southern level that are allocated.
Some are charged directly to the opcos and others are handled through the dividend allocation that we allocate to each of the operating companies.
Help us out with your question a little more.
What are you interested in? No I'm just trying to true something trying to just kind of back into what else potentially besides holding company debt could be a drag if I were to look at the difference between some of the Form 1 filing data and some of the SEC data but I'll follow up with you guys off-line.
No.
Yes yes yes.
2010 is a reasonable shot.
Take our year-end performance 2010 and then that may not -- that's -- I don't know of anything unusual then nor now that would cause that to be out of whack.
Our next question comes from Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> Tom just listening to your commentary really with regard to the proposed HAPs MACT rule and EPA rules and reconciling the point that you've made many times in past presentations about the kind of political backlash you expect from the big Western coal states and other areas and the lobbying efforts by you and others.
Where do we stand today looking at the reality on the ground? Is your thinking now that the rules are likely to just go in as planned? I mean are the charges of delays much lower today than they were say 4 or 5 months ago? What's the latest on that? It's hard to assess because the context is changing right? So here we are with this national debate right now about what to do about the federal deficit and the national level of debt and everything else.
And it's fascinating to hear the 2 sides talk about on one hand we've got to cut cost and on the other hand we've got to raise revenues through increased taxes.
And it's our sense that cutting cost is a -- certainly a dominant solution.
We've got lots of room to do that and we've got to rationalize essentially the size of government.
By the same token when you consider raising taxes you're not going to be able to cut your way out of this problem and you're not going to be able to tax your way out of this problem.
We're going to have to grow the economy and that's the way out of the problem eventually.
Raising taxes just dampens your ability to grow.
And the point we continue to make and I think it has some traction is that when you consider some of the overreaching regulation that we're seeing now this is clearly has the effect of an indirect tax on the economy.
And that is not good for anybody right now.
So we ask the question again why now? There will be times it will play out as these events unfold where we'll have more clarity.
Inc.</strong> And then Tom I recall also one of the avenues for pushing things back is the White House or the administration adding another 2 years beyond the 1 year of the EPS [ph] that you're on.
Is that still an option? Is that still on the table as far as you can tell? Oh sure.
And so the question there is the devil in the details how does that get issued? Is that something that's just unilaterally done by the President? Can he essentially delegate that authority to the states? And a variety of other issues.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And last question the folks from NEI have been talking about the COL approval process.
And one of the points they've raised was that this time there will be mandatory hearings as part of the process which I believe has not been done before.
And they put that in the category of unknown that are uncertainties.
Do you guys look at it that way? And what's your view on that? Yes.
We think that there are no kind of contentions to the schedule that's going to be laid out.
We think actually -- I know people are really focused on this.
But we think actually the process that's been laid out is thoughtful.
It is thorough and it is predictable.
And I think as the NRC comes out with its revised schedule I think it will provide some clarity transparency to the process.
And we think frankly it will be supportive to issuing the COL in a timely manner.
Our next question comes from Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
I know you've been answering a lot of policy questions today.
I don't want to push you too hard.
But actually switching gears a little bit towards kind of the renewable policy framework and how that's affected your plans in Southern Power and maybe in pursuing solar.
If you look at just kind of the -- the cash grants will be expiring this year and obviously that debate some of these things have come up on the chopping block.
Just wondering what you're -- what you've heard I guess what might be targeted and how that might shape your kind of strategic planning around renewables at Southern Power.
Well so you raised a great point.
And in our discussions on Capitol Hill both of them the administration and in Congress it is clear that renewables exist today primarily because of federal subsidies in the form of tax benefits either with production tax credits investment tax credits a variety of those things.
To some extent from a policy level federal support makes sense particularly when you want to get something started okay? So you give it some support.
You get its legs underneath it and then it goes forward.
The question that I think remains for the renewables sector is how viable are those projects in thinking about the national energy portfolio x federal subsidies? That's why we said before that we're kind of bullish on the development of solar just as apart from wind for example.
When we think about -- we did our project in New Mexico with First Solar a terrific company great group of guys.
Their idea is to get thin-film photovoltaics to a economic competitive basis by the middle of this next decade say 2016 to where maybe it'll be $0.15 per kilowatt hour.
If you consider the normal trajectory of energy prices in the United States if they're able to reach that -- and it's really 2 ways to reach it.
It's either through efficiency gains in the conversion of sunlight to electricity so from a technological improvement standpoint.
And then the second would be kind of a production cost efficiency standpoint.
If they can now generate thin-film solar panels at a cost-per-panel rate that continues to decline well maybe they can hit that.
And as you consider the price of energy in the United States -- now we in the Southeast are pretty cheap.
We're about $0.085 on a retail basis.
Nationally $0.15 per kilowatt hour might make sense even without federal subsidies.
That's where the renewable sector has to go.
They have to be able to demonstrate their reliability and economic consequence without federal subsidies eventually.
Okay.
I guess also regarding sort of Southern Power looking to the future.
Obviously sitting on that dry powder and kind of waiting things out are you looking at any of the deals and the transactions going on this year -- or the offered portfolios I should say? And do you see any kind of a bargain out there? Is there anything that you're looking at maybe acquisition-wise anywhere around the U.S.? Well so we always look at acquisitions.
And in fact recently we've done some things.
This West Georgia deal we did a trade for -- what was the project in Florida? We did a trade for one of our projects in Florida for West Georgia.
DeSoto.
Sorry.
DeSoto.
DeSoto yes.
We traded DeSoto for West Georgia plus cash I guess.
But we're always in the market to evaluate opportunities and do that so we're always  on there.
The other thing -- I guess I didn't really hit this.
I kind of hit it but so Southern Power through our Southern renewables company -- it's all managed in the same spot.
We've done a solar deal.
We're doing a biomass deal and there are tax credits associated with that.
Obviously we're very modest in our approach there compared to perhaps some other people.
From a financial policy standpoint we view tax-advantaged investing as riskier than normal investing.
And for Southern Company given our conservative profiles and having the best level of financial integrity and the most conservative business model around we put a higher hurdle rate on those kinds of investments than just good old brick-and-mortar investing.
So you'll look to see us continue in that vein in the future.
We'll probably be pretty modest there.
Our next question comes from Ashar Khan with Visium.
My questions have been answered.
Our next question comes from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just a few quick questions.
One on Fukushima the report that came out did you guys see anything in it that would cause you any concern about increase in expenses? So do you mean -- let me break -- I'll answer my own question.
Heck with it.
With Vogtle 3 and 4 we got reaffirmed that in fact Vogtle 3 or 4 has the design characteristics et cetera et cetera.
So it was very supportive of moving forward with all reasonable haste to get that done.
Right.
I meant the existing plants.
Existing fleet.
So yes I got my own plug in there Paul.
The existing fleet I think -- it's hard to tell right now.
When you consider that this 90-day report was a very solid work product of 6 people from the NRC that work product has to go through a thoughtful review at the NRC.
And I think in its review of NRC's normal processes they'll take a very thoughtful work and assess its applicability to the current fleet.
So it's really just hard to say right now.
I think there are some attractive areas to consider improving the current fleet but it will take some time.
Okay.
Second question is the -- it sounds like the economy is doing pretty well.
Before you guys were sort of maybe thinking that -- I guess economic growth in your area could be about 4% but you guys were being conservative at 3% 3.5%.
At least that's the last thing I recall.
Maybe it's changed.
I was wondering if it has changed actually.
If you guys -- what's your outlook now as -- for the Southeast economy? Well our forecast is what it is.
And as we look at where we are now I would expect us to do a bit better than what we forecast on industrial.
And kind of like what happened last year.
The mix was different.
Although we hit our total forecast or did a little bit better than our total forecast the mix may be off a bit.
We may underrun our estimate on residential and commercial growth but in total we don't think we'll be too far from our numbers.
Let me give you just a little more flavor there which is kind of fascinating to me.
You did see this little bump in residential compared to say prior quarters.
There's almost 2 classes kind of people right now in the United States: those with jobs and those without.
And let me say right at the outset that unemployment is at unacceptably high levels in the United States and we got to get about fixing that problem.
What we are seeing however for those that have jobs in the Southeast they're doing reasonably well.
We've seen a 4% increase in personal income growth.
We've seen we think with this bump an increase in usage.
We see an increase in tax receipts.
I mean people are spending more money.
So there is this interesting set of data points that suggest that if you have a job that we may see some momentum to grow not only with the creation of jobs as we suggested on the economic development front but also in the future in terms of personal consumption.
So it's a pretty interesting thing that we're keeping our eye on.
It's highly uncertain.
With the visibility we see and the economic development we think it will turn.
The question is when will it turn.
And just the last comment I'll make -- when we make estimates as to economic growth and a variety of other things -- we do this with this economic roundtable that Art runs and that Paul Bowers before him started.
So this is really not our own estimate.
It's really kind of the aggregation of everyone's estimates that we talked to in the Southeast.
Our next question comes from Dan Jenkins with State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
I guess I'll follow up a little bit on what you were just talking about in particular with the industrial groups.
You were pretty positive when you talked about job growth in the industrial sector in your region but we did see a slowdown in the weather-adjusted change from quarter-to-quarter.
And also you mentioned that your roundtable group was more cautious than they were 6 months ago.
I guess could you give us a little color on kind of a trend you're seeing with industrial? Have you seen any kind of a pullback as the quarter progressed as we've kind of seen in the national economic numbers? Or are you not seeing that in your region? Yes we've seen some spotty things.
But when you look year to year '11 to '10 you'll notice last year's pattern of industrial sales grew throughout the year.
So our ability to roll over last year's numbers is going to be a little more limited this year than say it was last year because we're working off a very low base.
You had some additions to capacity such as ThyssenKrupp in Alabama that had ramped up production a little quicker than we thought.
You've had the addition of a new refinery in Alabama which has helped industrial sales as well offset by say Honda which was impacted by -- some of the production by the -- or the earthquake in Japan interrupting the supply chain a bit.
So you've got hot and cold spots.
But on the whole our chemicals our primary metals our fabricated metals and auto production continue to be very strong and we expect them to remain that way.
One more local story of interest just real quick.
One of my buddies run Southtowne Automotive here in Atlanta several dealerships for automobiles.
He's selling out of low-priced fuel-efficient cars.
He's selling out of used vehicles.
He's getting plenty of supply but they're coming off the lot and he's having troubles replacing them with other product to sell.
So it's a fascinating time right now.
It feels like we're on the cusp of some recovery.
My sense is it's still a prolonged recovery but we see interesting signals all over the place.
Okay.
Moving on you talked a little bit about -- that you filed at Georgia Power for -- I think it was a $92.5 million increase.
Gulf Power.
Gulf Power I mean.
Yes.
Sorry.
Right.
What's the requested ROE? And what are the other drivers of that? And then what was your end ROE in the last 12 months ago? The requested ROE in the case is 11.7%.
The drivers for the increase are basically as I said in the text of my remarks was that they haven't filed a base rate increase in over 10 years.
And yes the increase in cost in the infrastructure hardening that the commission has asked for within the state of Florida are cost increases that the company has to date been able to cover.
But at this point it's necessary to go ahead and try to get recovery of those increased cost.
The actual last year earned ROE total company was 11.7%.
Okay.
And then the last question I have is just what was the quarter end debt balance? And then what are the -- any change in debt plans for the second half? Yes.
Basically we're right at $20 billion in debt.
The plans -- let's see.
So far year-to-date we've issued $1.7 billion.
Not all of that is new money.
We have done a little more refinancing as the markets have allowed.
And for the rest of this year we probably have another $1 billion to issue.
It appears our final question is a follow-up from the line of Brian Chin with Citi.
A question on Southern Power.
If I remember right that's roughly 80% contract is what you've told us in the past.
Certainly in the near term that's right.
Is that 80% volumetrically contracted as well? Or was that contracted in terms of expected overall margins? So remember what we do is we try to structure our competitive gen business with a similar risk posture to our integrated regulated business.
So virtually all of our contract has 2 segments.
One segment is associated with the investment in brick-and-mortar capacity.
And for the term of the contract we earn a fixed return on those investments on that capacity even whether the assets run or not.
The second element -- the second segment of contract deals with energy.
And as you see with our integrated regulated businesses those essentially are cost passthroughs essentially fuel cost with some variable O&amp;M.
And there is the ability with some small level to earn upsides.
That would be for starts energy margin availability and a variety of other small potential benefits that we can do.
So when we think about kind of keeping our powder dry and 80% and all that we were wondering earlier last year and even the year before how aggressively do we want to cover the uncovered portion of that generation portfolio? And remember that generation portfolio is almost exclusively gas fired in the Southeast.
As you think about the weight of the implications of these proposed regulations by EPA we have felt that Southern Power was exceedingly attractively positioned to take advantage of this kind of rapidly changing environment not only in just kind of how the world may change as a result of regulations but also the economic effects of cheap plentiful so-called type gas shale gas relative to coal.
So that's what we're seeing with Southern Power right now.
Did that hit your question? Well I guess what I'm -- because you're early comment about volumes or utilizations at CCGT has gone from 38% up to 50% has sparked my interest in Southern Power.
And what we're trying to think about here is if Southern Power is seeing a similar level of interest in demand then do your contracts preclude you from seeing that upside? Or do your contracts allow you to capture a little bit more upside than what you had projected you were contracted at? Yes that's it but it's not much.
It depends.
It depends on if the customer that you have a contract with has scheduled that capacity.
If they have not then we might have the opportunity to sell it somewhere else.
But normally in this kind of environment they're going to schedule it all on their own.
And just to review kind of what Art said.
The broader context because this applies to operating companies as well we operate in a pool of energy here in the Southeast.
Each of the companies -- well you meet your own needs first for your retail loads.
Secondly you the needs of sister companies first.
Thirdly only after you meet the needs of all of your retail customers all across our service territory then do you get to make opportunity sales and offset a land somewhere else in the U.S.
Interestingly we've had a real pickup in the second quarter of sales to our west.
So that's kind of where we've made the excess margin in the second quarter.
Last question on this.
With the allowance shortfall at Georgia Power would it be possible for you to meet that shortfall by running your coal plants less and then ramping up utilization at some of the Southern Power plants? Or am I just not really thinking about this correctly? No absolutely.
Look I mean...
Yes that's an option.
That is -- when we say change the dispatch that's what we're talking about.
Okay.
And then -- and because your answer back to Marc de Croisset earlier seem to imply that your scrubbers on your coal plant's already running at as high a utilization rate as you think they can go.
So ergo you can't increase the utilization on the scrubbers.
The only thing you can do is -- or one of the options you have is swap out on the dispatch curve.
Yes you see I know I went into detail there with Marc.
But the point is ours are already performing at an excellent level I mean the industry-leading level for heaven's sake.
So I don't know how much we -- so we've got all these engineers that tinker around with this stuff and love to make it work better.
There's always some potential.
But I think relative to what you're see elsewhere in the United States I thought his question went more to other people that had other technologies other experience older technologies deregulated markets with a different reality.
It really applied to somebody other than Southern.
Okay.
And to summarize your earlier response back to me in terms of your hedging at Southern Power you are essentially physically hedged and not financial hedged.
Is that maybe a better -- a more accurate way to phrase that? Very accurate.
At this time there are no further questions.
Sir are there any closing remarks? Well I just want to say thanks everybody.
We always enjoy getting together for these quarterly chats.
Our Investor Relations team is undergoing some transition as Glen enters into his salad days here but -- and we bring Dan Tucker on.
But we'll always strive to meet your needs as best we can and we're going to be attentive as ever on the road telling the story of Southern Company.
We appreciate your interest and we look forward to seeing you soon.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the Southern Company Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Kerry and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Southern Company Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Glen Kundert Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Kerry.
And welcome to Southern Company's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
Joining me this afternoon are Tom Fanning Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Company; and Art Beattie Chief Financial Officer.
Let me remind you that we will make forward-looking statements today in addition to providing historical information.
There are various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statement including those discussed in our Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
We'll also be including slides as part of today's conference call.
These slides provide details on the information that will be discussed on this call.
You can access the slides on our Investor Relations website at www.southerncompany.com if you want to follow along during the presentation.
Now at this time I'll turn the call over to Tom Fanning Southern Company's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
Before I get started with the normal text I want to recognize Glen Kundert.
This is his -- it's unbelievable -- 48th earnings call.
And as most of you know he will be retiring later this year.
He is a wonderful friend and has contributed so much to our success.
We just want to recognize that.
And Glen most often in Southern Company when really important people retire we name plants after them.
I'm afraid you're going to get this call named after you.
This would be the Glen A.
Kundert Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
Sorry we couldn't do better.
We will in fact do more in the months ahead I think we have 3 separate official recognition parties for you and look forward to seeing all of you on the call.
If you can make it please do.
He deserves all of our thanks and recognition.
Returning to the script as you can see from the materials we released this morning we had a solid third quarter.
Before handing it over to Art for the financial review I'd like to take a moment to recognize our employees for the terrific job they have done this year serving our customers.
This has been a particularly active year across our territory with regard to storm activity.
Not only were we faced with the devastating tornadoes of April 2011 which claimed lives and left thousands homeless in Alabama Mississippi and Georgia; but throughout the spring and summer we have seen an unusual number of major storms.
Our employees have worked around the clock to restore service as quickly as possible during this challenging period.
We have likewise seen strong storm activity outside our service territory and Southern Company has responded to that challenge as well.
In August we provided assistance to utilities hit hard by the effects of hurricane Irene which left millions without power a total of 740 Southern Company employees were dispatched to help with that restoration effort in multiple states up and down the Eastern seaboard.
Just a few weeks later our own territory was hit hard by Tropical Storm Lee and the same crews that had deployed to the Northeast returned home and reported without rest to support that restoration effort which lasted several days.
As we have faced and met these challenges it has been our employees' unparalleled commitment to customers that has made the difference.
Our employees know that putting the customer first is what makes Southern Company successful and their actions speak louder than any words I can offer.
At this point I'll turn to Art for a discussion of our financial highlights for the third quarter and our earnings guidance for the remainder of 2011.
Thanks Tom.
As Tom said our third quarter performance was solid.
In the third quarter of 2011 we reported earnings of $1.07 a share compared with $0.98 a share in the third quarter of 2010 an increase of $0.09 a share.
Let's turn now to the major factors that drove our third quarter numbers compared with the third quarter of 2010.
First the positive factors.
Retail revenue effects in our traditional business added a total of $0.17 a share to our earnings in the third quarter of 2011 compared with the third quarter of 2010.
Most of this increase was the result of regulatory actions at Georgia Power that became effective in January 2011.
Changes in non-fuel O&amp;M spending increased our earnings by $0.03 a share in the third quarter of 2011 compared to the third quarter of 2010.
This effect is due primarily to the absence of a discretionary accrual to the natural disaster reserve at Alabama Power that negatively affected earnings in the third quarter of 2010.
Finally a reduction in interest expense increased our earnings by $0.01 a share during the third quarter of 2011 compared to the third quarter of 2010.
Now let's turn to the negative factors that drove earnings for the third quarter of 2011.
Weather effects reduced our earnings by $0.07 a share during the third quarter of 2011 compared with the third quarter of 2010.
Weather was actually positive for the quarter coming in at $0.03 a share above normal but was negative when compared to the same period in 2010 which came in at $0.10 above normal.
Income tax expenses in our traditional business reduced earnings by $0.01 a share during the third quarter of 2011 compared with the third quarter of 2010.
Lower revenues at Southern Power reduced our earnings by $0.01 a share.
This decline in revenues is due primarily to the expiration in May of this year of a long-term capacity contract.
This decline was partially offset by opportunity market sales from this same resource.
Finally an increase in the number of shares outstanding reduced our earnings by $0.03 a share in the third quarter of 2011 compared with the same period in 2010.
In conclusion we had $0.21 of positive items compared with $0.12 of negative items or a positive change of $0.09 a share over the third quarter of 2010.
So overall our quarter came in at $1.07 per share.
Turning now to our own customer data and the regional economy.
Our sales data indicate that the southeastern economy continues to expand but at a slower rate than in our original forecast for the year.
We have been expecting 2.2% growth in retail sales.
However the expected growth in retail sales has not materialized as reflected in our year-to-date weather-normal retail sales growth of 1.1%.
We are now in the process of preparing our 2012 sales and economic forecast and will provide an updated outlook for you during our January earnings call.
In the meantime overall sales growth remained slow driven primarily by the continued flat performance of our residential and commercial markets.
The still-challenged housing market and low consumer confidence continued to temper growth in these sectors a situation that has been exacerbated in recent months by the -- by external events around the world.
Industrial sales however are still growing increasing by 1.6% in the third quarter of 2011 compared with the third quarter of 2010.
Based on third quarter results industrial sales are at 95% of pre-recession levels.
As a bullish signal we note that August sales approached 97% of 2007 levels indicating continued momentum.
The most significant increases for the quarter were in primary metals up 16% petroleum refining up 12% and fabricated metals up 8%.
All major segments experienced year-over-year growth with the exception of paper and several housing-related segments.
The auto segment in our region has shown continued improvement producing 10% more vehicles in the third quarter of 2011 than in the third quarter of 2010.
Meanwhile the value of all exports from the region increased 18.5% in the third quarter of 2011.
We remain encouraged by the prospects for continued industrial growth in our territory.
On the economic development front we are actively working with our state governments on more than 300 potential new projects.
Out of this pipeline 30 realized projects representing more than 6 000 jobs were formally announced during the third quarter alone.
For example Mercedes-Benz announced that in 2015 a fifth line will be added to its Southeastern operations bringing with it an additional 400 jobs.
This is in addition to the 1 000 Mercedes jobs previously announced for 2014 to build that company's C-Class model.
All told Mercedes will bring a total capital investment of $2.4 billion to the region over the next 4 years.
To sum up the current economic picture the Southeast economy is rebounding albeit slowly and should be well positioned for the future reflecting strong fundamentals such as diverse transportation networks attractive labor markets and low cost of doing business.
The recovery will however continue to be challenged until the national employment picture improves and consumers begin to regain confidence in their outlook for the future.
Turning now to our earnings guidance for the remainder of 2011.
Our estimate for the fourth quarter is $0.29 a share which means we expect to come in at the very top of our 2011 guidance range of $2.48 to $2.56 a share.
At this point I'll turn the call back over to Tom for his closing remarks.
Thanks Art.
In closing I'd like to take a few minutes to update you on where we stand on our 5 strategic business priorities.
The first priority is to sustain and enhance our business model.
We remain focused on providing superior customer value in the form of industry-leading reliability low prices and exceptional customer service.
The outstanding value Southern Company delivers can be seen in operational results achieved throughout our business.
These results include but are not limited to a peak season equivalent forced outage rate for our fossil/hydro generation for 2011 of about 1.3% the second best in our company's history compared to a historical industry average of around 7%; a continued 10-year trend of improved performance for our transmission and distribution assets; prices that remain well below the national average; and customer satisfaction that is among the industry's best most recently demonstrated a few weeks ago when Southern Company was named the #1 utility nationally for overall customer satisfaction in the annual National Key Accounts Benchmark Survey conducted by TQF Research.
The second priority is to be successful in completing our major construction projects.
Plant Vogtle units 3 and 4 and Plant Ratcliffe in Kemper County Mississippi are progressing well.
All targets related to cost and schedule remain achievable.
The third priority is to engage in the national energy policy discussion.
We continue to stress the importance of a common sense national energy policy that will contribute to a healthier economy and our nation's ability to generate jobs.
Our concepts are simple.
First that the United States should take advantage of all of the arrows in the quiver: Nuclear 21st century coal natural gas renewables and energy efficiency.
And second that our industry should increase as a high priority its investment in robust proprietary research and development.
We've been very clear in our conviction that this is the best way for the industry to go forward.
Toward that end we remain engaged in a variety of forums and are very encouraged by the constructive nature of the discussion to date.
We are especially gratified by the recent hearings in the U.S.
House of Representatives concerning the reliability of our nation's electric infrastructure and particularly the leadership shown by FERC Commissioner Philip Moeller.
Meanwhile we have continued to diversify our fuel mix.
Four years ago 70% of our generation was coal-fired and approximately 10% came from natural gas.
In the third quarter of 2011 approximately 50% of generation was derived from coal while gas production has moved up to 30%.
We moved in this direction solely for the benefit of our customers without additional regulatory mandates which would have the effect of increasing energy prices and reducing reliability.
My fourth priority is to promote Smart Energy.
We remain authentically postured in the 3 components of this effort: Smart Power Smart Grid and Smart Choices.
In Smart Power we continue to pursue a three-pronged approach that includes conventional renewable and distributed generation.
In Smart Grid in addition to our efficiency gains we expect to have nearly 4 million smart meters installed by the end of this year on our way to a total of 4.6 million at the program's completion.
And at Smart Choices we continue to assess which value chains will emerge and where we might participate in those markets.
The fifth priority focuses on our people.
We believe we have the best bench strength in the industry and we see that as a major strategic advantage going forward.
Even now we are working on robust succession planning that will carry us into the next decade and position this company for future success.
As our business continues to grow and evolve we will pursue the successful achievement of these 5 priorities all for the benefit of the customers and communities we serve.
At this point we are ready to take your questions.
So operator we'll now take the first question.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Daniel Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess just -- can we talk a little more about kind of the demand picture right now in really the residential and commercial classes if you have more thoughts you want to pontificate on why we just haven't seen the usage recovery and if it's all economy.
Or if there's some efficiency issues going on or what you think is kind of keeping this from rebounding? Yes.
Dan this is Art.
I really think it's more consumer confidence than anything else so I would point to the general economy.
It's very tough to pull out energy efficiency out of those numbers and get a good feel for that.
I think the fact that we've had so many punches in the gut from all of these sovereign debt issues in Europe the downgrade of the U.S.
debt the stock market performance housing values dropping doesn't give consumers a lot of good feelings to go forward on.
So I think everybody's being very conservative.
They're paying down debts.
Their whole mindset is very conservative right now.
I think that's what's driving usage.
You also have some in migration issues into the Southeast with housing values declining you got folks just not willing to pick up and move sell their homes and -- or monetize that value.
One other point that's just interesting personal income growth for those that have jobs is actually pretty vibrant.
So I think this other issue of just a sustained kind of unacceptably high employment level is something that has to resolve itself.
Those that have jobs seem to be doing pretty well.
Research Division</strong> And I guess maybe a little further along those lines if you look at the industrial load you guys are almost back to pre-recessionary levels but clearly you've seen growth in the industrial base since then.
If you think about the resource additions that have happened since '07 and '08 how far off -- are you off from a normalized utilization rate for the entire industrial base? As I said -- we're 95% for the quarter compared to '07 levels in industrial sales.
So in the month of August we were 97%.
So we're almost back to that breakeven point.
But we've added a little capacity to some crop [ph] being the big ones to note that we didn't have back in '07.
So it's not a pure apples-and-apples comparison.
And I think another statistic I think we've mentioned in the past -- we continued to see -- affirmed is this idea that during the downturn a lot of our industrial economy took the time to retool.
And in fact we think their production capacity efficiency has gained about 18% since the downturn.
So you're going to have to eat into that before you regrow jobs in a significant way.
Research Division</strong> Do you think that the efficiency gains is going to kind of the 97% 95% 94% -- 95% 97% recovery probably captures the growth you've had netted against the efficiency gains you saw out of your big customers? So you're more kind of at normal like an honest normal number.
I'm not sure I followed the question.
Research Division</strong> I'll follow-up with you on that one.
I guess the other thing Tom I was wondering if you could talk about was on Vogtle just where the COL is at this point in time and your expectations for getting that resolved? Yes the simple answer is we see no technical reason why we shouldn't be able to get the COL by the end of this year.
As we know the rulemaking process with respect to the DCD has been submitted to the NRC.
Likewise the regulation around the COL is progressing as we expected it to.
And so we see these things coming together by the end of this year.
We see no technical reason why it couldn't happen this year.
Your next question comes from Steve Fleishman with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just curious kind of your latest thoughts on what we may see out of the final HAPs MACT thing? And just I know you've pushed a lot for more time and for some changes.
And there's been I guess focus on reliability and we now have a one-month delay I guess to deal more with -- maybe more with reliability issues.
Just what are you expecting to see? Steve that is an awfully good question but it's one of these unknowables.
I mean I'll talk around the issue.
It's pure speculation at this point.
Certainly with the extra 30 days for EPA perhaps to digest the vast amount of comments they got we still have the 2015 deadline staring at us.
And in fact from the time you get a final rule till the 2015 deadline it really shortens your period to react and put in place.
So all the issues related to schedule remain.
You may know too that the EEI comments with respect to this rule really have 11 different points.
Schedule is just 1 of the 11.
The others relate to more technical points related to how you measure affluence and what's the appropriate regime in which for that to occur.
So there's a whole lot going on here behind -- I mean other than schedule.
And I think the thing that I'm gratified with as I noted in my comments is the constructive nature of the discourse in Washington.
I know you don't hear that often but we are particularly gratified by the notion that people do take seriously the potential impact on reliability.
And in fact we note that there is a FERC technical conference now scheduled to deal with reliability in November.
So we'll see.
I appreciate the question.
I am reluctant to try and predict where EPA is going to come out on this thing.
Research Division</strong> Well that's helpful color.
I guess one other question just on -- I guess 2 other questions.
First on sales growth when we think about the impact if we have slower sales next year or the year after -- I mean in the end generally you're just focused on earning your allowed return whatever investment you're making.
Would this have any meaningful impact on your capital expenditure plan or since most of it's for some of these major projects that it really would -- would it impact that much? Yes.
I think that's exactly right.
I absolutely share that point of view.
I don't think it has much to do at all with our CapEx.
If there is any impact on CapEx it's going to be the theoretical gas unit way down the road.
We're pretty well committed through '17 anyway.
If you think about it we got Plant Ratcliffe at Kemper County coming in in '14 you have the McDonough units coming in.
We have Plant Vogtle 3 and 4 coming in.
Georgia is doing a solicitation in its IRP for some '15 and beyond resources.
All that's pretty well spoken for.
Any variance is going to come in late in this decade.
And further let me just say to everybody too while we have -- we were predicting remember a recovery that we thought would accelerate in the fourth quarter.
We think it's still there we just think it's just further out in time.
Steve you may have some intermittent adjustments to growth in transmission and distribution investment.
That's more related to current economic growth and you could see some delay depending on what the forecasts were to say.
Research Division</strong> One last quick question.
Just on equity issuance through your DRIP dribble.
Where are you on that? How much have you issued year-to-date and could you remind us what your target was for the year? Yes our target for the year was 500.
Year-to-date we have issued 619 I believe was the number.
We've done more.
We've actually turned off our internal programs other than the stock option program.
And that's really where we've picked up much more than we expected.
Next year and we'll give you guidance in January on what we expect -- where we expect that to be next year.
The next question comes from Andy Levi with Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just on the COL I mean I understand that you guys are in very good shape there and things seem to be humming along.
But can you just be a little bit more specific on what still needs to be done or what's the process between now and year-end or the first of January whatever it is? Sure.
So the DCD has been submitted in a rule-making process to the NRC.
So the commissioners now have the rule.
They now have a period of time in which they can comment on the final rule and vote on it.
There is a period that the different staffs of the different commissioners will try and harmonize their comments.
Ultimately I think as the commissioners come to a consensus on approving the rule we hope then I think it will move rather quickly.
Remember the COL is a process which has a 240 I think 240- 270-day clock on it which will culminate by December 15 I think.
So what we expect to see -- what we hope to see is a vote that will be final by the commissioners prior to that time with respect to the DCD.
Then we have the COL and then hopefully we get the COL.
Beyond that period there are 2 administrative procedures we have talked about before one of which deals with a scoring process by OMB and one of which deals with a notice process in the Federal Register.
Both of those are administrative in nature and we believe there is no technical reason why we couldn't be awarded the COL in December.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess it's just a matter of when a rule is a rule.
When the commissioners vote on it when it is affirmed.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> When it's affirmed okay.
And then just secondly very quickly.
Just on O&amp;M obviously you guys have done a great job on O&amp;M this year and one of the reasons why I think your numbers are so good and have offset maybe a weaker residential/commercial side sales.
Can you kind of just talk about that and whether we can -- if sales ended up being a little bit weaker than expected next year whether we can anticipate the same type of cost management on the O&amp;M side? Well basically Andy what you've seen in the third quarter was the fact that Alabama had booked that reserve last year and didn't book anything this year.
So that's the biggest driver this year year-over-year otherwise it's pretty flat.
A lot of our O&amp;M is timing.
We do a lot of O&amp;M in the fourth quarter after we know what revenues in the third quarter are so that drives a lot of our numbers.
So when you look ahead we always like to think we've got some flexibility around O&amp;M spend but then again we still have to maintain customer service at levels that our customers expect.
So we judge that very closely.
And I'll just turn 2 comments out.
The old expression "fix the roof while the sun is out." When we have weather that generates higher-than-expected revenues not only does that stress the system a little more we actually turn on O&amp;M at that time.
So we take advantage of those times in order to keep the system as robust as possible.
And the clear evidence of that is look at the operational performance of our generation fleet and our transmission and distribution assets during this time.
So we're on a wonderful kind of management practice of maintaining an optimal fleet condition.
So that's kind of a big deal.
And you always have to kind of look across years with Southern and with respect to O&amp;M.
I wouldn't get too excited about one year over another.
And I think our O&amp;M in '11 kind of compound average growth rate since '08 is about 2.2% so that's a nice good trajectory for us to follow.
Your next question comes from Jim von Riesemann with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Listen in your prepared remarks you touched briefly on some of your construction projects.
So I really have a two-fold question.
One is let's assume the COL gets signed and everything is done at the end of the year.
You're the first folks to go out and build new nuclear.
How should we think about what's keeping you up at night in terms of that project? What do we need to look for in terms of the positives as well as the negatives from that? And then the second question is just on the other project you mentioned which is your Kemper County.
What do you see in there in terms of cost pressures? Do you have any cost updates for us? I know some others in the industry are having some fits and starts.
And maybe what keeps you up at night on that project? Perfect.
Yes we saw your on note on that so we were -- we're reasonably prepared there.
Let me first hit Vogtle though.
What's fascinating about Vogtle we're not allowed to disclose kind of our forward projection for say month by month construction expenditure projections.
It's a trade secret under the contract okay? But you should reasonably expect that it is a fairly stable line going forward okay? So it's not going to be particularly lumpy.
As we have already talked about in a variety of forums the project which is expected to be about $14 billion to 100% ownership -- remember we own 45.7% so we're $1.7-or-so billion in on that.
And we have essentially completed a lot of the civil work at the site.
And in fact what you will start to see -- it will be very visual once we get this COL we're going to start to come out of the ground with a lot of stuff.
Those of you that haven't been at the site recently would notice a lot anyway.
We've actually done a lot of structures.
But you're really going to see it tick up.
You know that we've been going to school a little bit on the project in China Sanmen et cetera.
And it's like building your house.
Once they put the walls on your house it looks like we're making tremendous progress.
That's about what you're going to see in the next year or 2.
So what keeps us up at night? I mean that's a fascinating thing.
Before we decided to go forward here we went back to the stalwarts of Southern's past so we pinged people like Bill Dahlberg and Allen Franklin and Paul Wright [ph] and a variety of other guys that had been involved in the big construction projects of the past.
And one of the things they said is as significant event as this is to your company there is nothing more important that you can spend your time on.
And so one thing that I want to assure the financial community is that this has our priority focus.
We have a Vogtle Executive Oversight Committee me and Paul Bowers the CEO of Georgia Power Anthony Topazi the COO; Art of course the CFO; Steve Kuczynski the President and CEO of Southern Nuclear; and of course Buzz Miller and his guys.
And we spend whatever time we need into whatever hour of the night there is to get involved.
And we do that regularly but I can tell you on a real-time basis we are all aware of the progress and the issues.
You should also all know and I've been very public about this when you consider the magnitude and the time frame involved the issue here is not that you have challenges but rather there will inevitably be challenges and the question on how well you manage this project is how well you get through the challenges how well you manage the time material process management oversight.
And I think we've done a heck of a job when you consider all the challenges we've seen so far and how we're moving through them in an efficient expeditious manner.
I guess that's it.
The only other thing I would add is where these are processes that we're putting in place as we start to build the plant there will be tests along the way of various systems that will have to be approved to nuclear quality.
We get that.
We fully embrace it we are accountable for it and we are managing with our vendors to that degree of performance.
So it will be -- I'm sorry for the long-winded answer but it will be just an ongoing shirt sleeves rolled up hard-nosed blue collar effort to stay on top of this.
I commit to you we are doing it.
Research Division</strong> And then just on Mississippi? Sure.
We -- since we saw your note we kind of anticipated this might be an issue so we have included a slide in the appendix that will be available to you I guess after the call.
Let's just kind of go through that real quick.
I fully understand the question.
I mean I get it.
Edwardsport has had its issues so what about Kemper? Well I know they're both gasifiers but that's about where the similarities end.
They are very different projects.
I'll just hit a few of the major points.
The type of gasifier is exceedingly different.
Ours is our own technology that we developed along with KBR it's called TRIG.
It's not the GE gasifier.
Primary fuel type for us is lignite the other is one is bituminous coal.
The maintenance of it will be significant.
Ours operates -- it's called non-flagging.
It operates at a temperature below where ash gets melted.
And so therefore we think it has a much more robust operating profile and will require less maintenance as it goes forward.
EPC management Southern has tremendous experience in self-managing projects of this magnitude.
I guess during this kind of big build out of environmental and combined-cycle projects over the last say 5 years or so -- really 10 years if you go back to the inception of our environmental construction program which is amounting now over $8 billion we have averaged over 15 million man-hours per year self-managed 15 million self-managed.
And we have brought in all of these projects on time on budget with better functionality than what you normally see in the industry.
Kemper will require about 8 million man-hours over 3 years.
So as a self-constructor engineer we have fully demonstrated our capability to handle projects of this magnitude.
So we're not relying on a third party.
We've demonstrated we can do it.
It's our technology we get it and we think we'll be successful.
Underlying that concept is the notion that this is --- when I talk about proprietary robust research and development remember we developed -- this technology really started back in the late '60s and '70s in liquefaction work.
This work morphed into gasification recently and this technology that we're building has now run over 15 900 hours at our Wilsonville research and development facility.
And 2 300 of those hours has been on this Mississippi lignite.
Remember too that we started down the road on an Orlando project.
Remember too that we're going to go to school on the 120-megawatt Dongguan project in China.
So we have the ability to go to school on somebody else and understand the integration issues as we reach construction.
A few more points.
We have a great big site 3 000 acres 165 acres for the footprint of the plant.
It's a merit shop.
Construction management is probably half of what you see elsewhere.
We have about 120 people deployed for that and a lot fewer contractors.
Probably about 10 contractors on site at our peak.
So for all those reasons we think that we're in awfully good shape and we have the same kind of oversight on the Plant Ratcliffe Kemper County project that we do on Vogtle.
And I am very confident in saying they are on budget on schedule.
We believe all the metrics are achievable.
Research Division</strong> Super.
That was a complete answer.
One quick question maybe a 30-second response.
Gulf Power we haven't heard much about it but I know there's a rate case going on down there? Yes probably not a lot to go on right now they've had a few hearings.
But it's really a process that will evolve what February? What is it Art? Yes it will be the first quarter.
First quarter next year.
We're not allowed to talk about it right now.
Your next question comes from Brian Chin with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> One macro question.
I had in some of my earlier notes that you guys were roughly expecting sort of the Southeastern GDP outlook year-over-year to be going at around 2.5% or so for 2011.
I know you made some macro comments earlier in the prepared remarks but now that we're sort of most of the way through 2011 any care to put a thumb-in-the-wind guess in what the GDP would be for 2011 and then maybe any sort of thumb-in-the-wind guesses on where 2012 could look? Yes.
Brian the numbers that I've seen and the folks that we kind of pay attention to are saying a little bit less than 2% GDP growth for 2011.
And that's basically where it is.
That kind of matches what we're seeing on sales growth as well at least in residential/commercial.
And we'll comment a lot more about -- we go through all of our economic forums and everything else with our major customers in '12.
So we'll give you a full picture on that.
But just remember the economy is still recovering.
We still have a positive trajectory.
It's just ahead of us a few more months than it was.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So are your comments on '12 going to be -- given maybe at EDI or is that something we should probably wait until first quarter to think about? No first quarter January call.
We'll use that as a foundation for our guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then one other question.
I remember last quarter Southern Power experienced a fairly large jump in utilization year-over-year from somewhere in the 30s percentile range to close to 50% 2Q.
Could you give us what the utilization numbers look like for 3Q 2010 versus 3Q 2011? I don't know the '10 numbers but the '11 numbers were like 75%.
Well here it is.
It's -- you're exactly right on '10.
I thought it was about 35% to 40%.
This year third quarter Southern Power's making more money off energy margins.
Their capacity factor's up around 69% in the third quarter year-to-date 55%.
Fascinating our base load fleet.
So our traditional integrated operation fleet was 75%.
And that's really what's driving this increase in gas-fired energy up to over 30% is the fact that our combined-cycle units are now starting to look like base load units.
Fascinating stuff.
Your next question comes from Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So on Vogtle and maybe this question is for you Tom if -- there's obviously all this -- a lot of noise in D.C.
about tax in general and then the budget the super committee et cetera.
What would happen if somehow the funds for the loan guarantee were not forthcoming or is that even possible? Okay.
So about a year ago a little over a year ago we got a conditional loan guarantee from the United States government.
You know that we can't disclose the conditions under which the draw will occur.
But we have described that the draws will begin to occur soon after we get the COL.
We remain confident about our position with respect to retaining the COL.
Recall I have -- as you can probably imagine we have had some conversations about this internally and in Washington.
We are so different than Solyndra right? This is a corporate credit of Georgia Power Company so if Southern Company owned don't know what the exact number is today it's a $37 billion market cap company.
Georgia Power is half of that.
So you're talking about something that is exceedingly creditworthy.
Remember too that 100% of the benefits of the loan guarantee accrue to the customers of the state of Georgia.
So this is something that absolutely benefits the public and aids the renaissance of a national priority.
We see very very little reason to believe why this will not go forward as we all contemplated.
Research Division</strong> Well I don't disagree with any of that but in that event what would happen then? Nothing.
We would continue on we would just lose some of the benefit.
Remember too just to throw this in the mix give me the point of a commercial here.
In the latest hearings that we had with the Georgia Public Service Commission really had been dealing with this incentive proposal that was brought out it was made very clear that since certification the company has brought to the benefit of the citizens of Georgia over $1 billion in value since certification.
Part of that is the loans guarantees.
Obviously there's other things as well.
So we will continue on if we have to.
It would just be a shame that this national priority was not benefiting the citizens as it should have.
Research Division</strong> Would you sort of answer a question focused on the PTCs similarly? And maybe your view of sort of how likely or not those are to survive? Same answer.
Your next question comes from Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Jon Cohen.
Greg hopped off so I'll ask on his behalf.
Just a follow-up on the question that might have been asked before about your gas fleet in the Southeast and how underutilized those plants are now? So if you wanted to change your dispatch philosophy to run the CCGTs more as base load assets what would be the process for that? I mean -- and are you looking now at longer-term RFPs? Are you talking about -- wait our fleet runs as an energy pool for the benefit of our customers okay? So our customers always get the best lambda possible okay? And when you consider that the capacity factor of the integrated fleet this is our integrated regulated utilities was up around 75% and the Southern Power fleet part of that pool ran at 69% they are acting like base load units.
So if you think about the dispatch they are being dispatched way early certainly in advance of other coal assets.
Research Division</strong> And do you think you're pretty much maxed out now on how much you can run those assets or as time as some of the coal contracts roll off that you could see even more coming from the gas fleet? Well you will see more coming from the gas fleet especially if we see some of these retirements in place that will be required if EPA has their way under the proposed rule.
Art what would you add to that? Just to say that McDonough is going to add 2 500 megawatts of gas in -- about 2/3 of that next year and the other 1/3 in '13.
So we'll have an increased gas capacity after those assets are inserted.
And remember too the other issue that we raised we are very bullish on natural gas.
I hope everybody understands that.
And we look forward to using more natural gas in the future.
If we shut down some of our coal and perhaps as -- if we are required to as a result of the EPA rules convert some old small coal boilers gas-fired with higher heat rates we're going to need more gas pipeline infrastructure.
Currently our firm transportation in the Southeast is full.
We're going to need more infrastructure built out in order to support more gas demand.
Your next question comes from Mark Barnett with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
You've talked enough about Vogtle.
But just a quick -- with the task force vote out of the NRC this week do you have any firmer idea about the impact on maybe your existing nuclear fleet? No Mark it's a little early for that.
I think the rules that they're developing going to take several years before they're finalized.
So it's going to be a little while.
But we really from our perspective -- from a high-level perspective we don't expect them to be dramatically.
.
.
You know there was an initial review on the 90-day report coming out of Fukushima.
And you'll be glad to know that none of our units were found to have any significant deficiencies per that report.
And certainly none of it really applies to any degree to Vogtle 3 and 4.
Research Division</strong> Yes I know those are specific to designs that some of your peers maybe operate.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second I guess you're looking at switching over to Southern Power.
There's a lot of talk around a couple of large solar projects on the block.
And I'm just wondering when you're looking at these various portfolios or specific individual projects do you have a preference for either a specific project or more pipeline or how are you looking at your strategy there? I think our strategy -- we have a pretty high bar for all of that any new projects coming into it.
But it depends on who else is involved and whether or not we can get the Ts and Cs to match the requirements that we've got going in.
So we look at a lot of different projects and some of them make the hurdle some of them don't.
So we're always open to discussions.
We tend to like smaller bite-sized deals.
We don't like the megaprojects.
We've kind of budgeted among ourselves this is -- you shouldn't take this as firm but it's just our own thinking to do kind of 300 megawatts or less over 5 years all right? So that suggests something.
So we would want to use that.
To us an optimal bite-size might be 50 megawatts or we might do 100 at a time.
But we like the smaller sizes and do kind of those things.
We would keep the same mindset that we have with our Southern Power fleet.
That is long-term contracts our current average life of contracts is over 14 years creditworthy counterparties no fuel risk strong vendor relationships et cetera.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess the last kind of unrelated question.
Obviously some of your peers have recently called some rather large preferred issues I'm just looking at -- your subsidiaries preferred so are there any factors that you'd like or maybe want to discuss you're considering or looking at that maybe for following suits or why you might not be thinking about calling any of those issues? Yes.
We don't really comment on what we're looking at or thinking about but we keep an eye on our portfolio and we'll take advantage and make announcements when it's appropriate to do so.
Shawn has given us some interesting information on the debt portfolio.
Yes.
We've been lengthening the debt portfolio a little bit beyond our normal term trying to take advantage of low interest rates obviously.
On the other side of it where we see we can draw down on some loan guarantees we've shortened the debt portfolio at say Georgia and Mississippi to take advantage of those particular opportunities.
Shortened it in anticipation of drawing down and going longer.
And in fact I think the numbers are a year ago we were 13.5 years and now we're going to 14.5.
And now we think maybe 15.5 once we get the loan guarantees in place.
That's for the Southern debt portfolio.
And we're reducing costs at the same time.
It's actually a pretty good time to be building big capital assets.
Your next question comes from Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One question.
Assuming as you've laid out you're going to end up at the high end of your earnings for this year at 256.
That'll be a pretty strong year-over-year growth for you I think 8% or so if my math is right.
So when we recalibrate going forward and start looking at 2011 as the starting point longer-term could you remind us of what kind of growth rate -- EPS growth rate can the system support off an '11 base longer term? Well I'll just put the reminder out there.
I think you saw it on the slide that we've started with our 2010 guidance range of 230 to 236.
And based on that growth rate 5% off the bottom 7% off the top we thought that that would describe our growth opportunities moving forward.
To the degree that environmental compliance required CapEx early in the period we would grow more towards the top end of that range.
If it's pushed out -- if those CapEx dollars are pushed out our growth opportunities would fall towards the bottom end of the range.
In other words the 5% range.
But it's all based on the reality that we established for you that being the 2010 guidance range.
And just looking at the fourth quarter so you're assuming just go through that versus history? Yes Ali if you look at last year we earned $0.18 in the fourth quarter.
We've given you guidance this year of $0.29.
We think that's a much more normal fourth quarter.
If you look back at '08 -- excuse me '09 it was $0.31; '08 it was $0.26.
So this is a much more normal fourth quarter than what you would normally...
Last year was abnormal.
Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I guess related to that and Art I think alluded to that on the CapEx side but underlying the rate-based growth that would support the earnings growth would be what across your overall portfolio? Well we've outlined the CapEx.
And until we update that in January you would still go with the CapEx numbers we gave you for $15 billion to $17 billion depending on your assumptions around environmental compliance.
Yes we'll give you specific guidance in January as we always do.
But we remain absolutely convicted with the plan we've laid out.
And we think we can perform within those ranges.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Tom one last question coming back to your earlier commentary on what you're hearing out of Washington D.C.
But realistically and you've talked about this on a couple of your calls the options in front of the EPA/the administration and dealing with HAPs MACT and similar rules appear to narrow down to essentially giving a timeline extension perhaps 3 years or so between the White House and the EPA.
But realistically or practically speaking I mean is there anything else that we should or could expect with regards to these upcoming rules? Sure.
So my quick commercial here again is why now? So on top of a challenged economy why do we want increased prices and impact unacceptably high unemployment already okay? So the first question you should ask yourself is why now why this rush? The second question then is go to the EEI principles in which there are 11 points laid out.
So beyond schedule there are things like EPA has introduced a brand-new concept called condensable PMs that frankly isn't a PM inside the plant that would condense and form a PM outside the plant.
There are a number of issues that deal with start-up shutdown when the plant will kind of not operate as well as we can.
There's a host of issues around what is the PM standard what is the mercury standard.
There are a host of technical issues that aren't as simple to talk about but are as material as the schedule.
And until we know what those are -- see this is the point that people tend to whitewash in the discussion about this important rule.
Until we know what those are we can't tell you whether we're going to require baghouses on certain plants or not.
And so therefore until we see a final rule we really can't determine what is the optimal compliant strategy.
So when people say "should have known " they're all wet.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And so Tom just to be clear between now and December your sense is all of this is still on the table and could change by the time the December final rules come out? It absolutely is.
Your next question comes from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One just have you guys ever talked about what your earning sensitivity is to like every 1% change in expected demand? Yes we do.
Research Division</strong> If you don't mind my asking what is that? It depends on which class you're talking about.
For a 1% change in all of our customer classes it would be about $94 million in pretax base rate revenue and that would translate into about $0.075 plus or minus of earnings per share.
But all you're doing is math.
In other words we wouldn't just let that happen.
We would take a number of steps in order to hit the numbers that we put out to the public.
Research Division</strong> Someone earlier asked a question about O&amp;M.
And I guess as we kind of -- we're in a little bit of a demand recovery environment where the recovery's taking little a bit longer than folks had thought.
Would there be any issues keeping you from doing I think it was late '09 early '10 where you did a decent-sized O&amp;M reduction during that year.
We've seen 1 or 2 of your peers announce something like that as well.
Is there anything that would keep you from doing that going into 2012 whether it's a test year for a rate case or whether there's some other item both near term or long term that would keep you from doing it? Listen we -- I think do a dynamite job the folks that run the system the people that run the plants and keep the wires up do a dynamite job having this concept of essentially a flexible budget where there's a baseline of things that we absolutely have to do for liability purposes for safety purposes a variety of other things.
There's always an increment above that which deals with projects which are more of a nature that lends itself to variability whether we do them in one year or the next do we do an outage in one year or the next for marginal plants things like that.
So we have inculcated into our operational practices a certain amount of optionality into our spending.
We do not ever impact reliability or safety.
And as a result you can see that in our operational performance.
We operate like champs.
So this has just worked exceedingly well.
The only way I theoretically get to that question is if you had a number of years in a row where you couldn't exercise that kind of flexibility but we've never seen that condition.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Last question with CSAPR kind of final rule out there and then revisions that came out a few weeks ago are you seeing a change in your negotiating position with the coal suppliers? And if so how? Well that's a fascinating question.
Art you want to take a shot at it or...
Yes.
Michael I haven't picked up on any change.
Now we are kind of looking at which units are going to be on the margin from a HAPs MACT perspective and trying to decide what our coal contracting strategy will be around those particular units.
But I think CSAPR could also influence which units are being which ones are going to be more available than others.
Yes because what you're going to do with CSAPR is essentially change the dispatch by an energy add or essentially the cost of the allowance.
The other thing that's fascinating about that question is a point we've made in the past it's kind of a national energy policy point and it is.
The United States can elect to reduce its consumption of coal.
But coal will still be consumed worldwide.
We have seen a big increase in exports to people like China and India and a variety of other people.
The coal will be consumed.
The question is as a policy matter will it be consumed for the benefit of United States citizens? Research Division</strong> Tom one kind of a follow-up in terms of some of the environmental CapEx when the EPA put out the draft HAPs MACT there was the analytics that was embedded in that that assumed that lots of plants especially PRB-burning plants would be able to use dry sorbent injection and dry scrubbing rather than wet scrubbing.
Just curious for Southern Company's view on whether that is technologically as feasible as the EPA estimated.
It's way off.
No it's not.
Because remember when you add up all the -- you've got to add up all the consequential effects of all the rules.
When you use DSI you create particular matter issues so it doesn't work.
I don't think -- on our fleet I'm not even sure we're using DSI anywhere.
Research Division</strong> So in other words that for large -- I mean I can understand for ab coal plants that it's -- you're almost box into a corner and you have to use a wet scrubber.
For PRB burning plants you assume that the concept of using dry scrubbing as well as maybe baghouses et cetera to meet both CSAPR and MACT it really isn't a feasible outcome? Correct.
That's correct.
And we have the research.
We're the only group in our industry that has deep research and development at a proprietary level that can assess these things.
As well we have a 1 600-person engineering construction services group that knows that has technical expertise in almost every element of a power plant.
We know this stuff backwards and forwards.
And I would put our technical expertise against anybody's.
Your next question comes from Carl Seligson with Utility Financial Experts.
I don't think there's any accurate way to measure energy efficiency but I'd like to know what you think you can do about it.
And how long does it take before -- if your sales don't recover you decide to do something about decoupling or the like in any of the states? Okay first of all we think decoupling is a dumb idea in a growing economic environment right? Decoupling makes sense where in fact you're going to reduce sales.
And here is my point.
And I know you've been in the audience on some of my speeches so I think you pushed a button to set me off here but energy efficiency to us doesn't mean sell less.
It means use our product more wisely.
And in fact what I want to do from a strategy standpoint is posture this company to play offense in an energy efficiency environment.
That is if I can demonstrate that electrotechnologies can displace other worse forms of energy then I can in fact sell more kilowatt hours.
So decoupling doesn't make any sense at all in that context.
And in fact our research and development group now is devoting a significant -- and really it has been for sometime -- a significant amount of effort to developing electrotechnology applications that will have that effect.
So let's get more efficient and let's use more electricity.
An obvious example is electric vehicles right? We spend $1 billion a day on importing foreign oil and we think you can charge your electric vehicle for the equivalent of about $1 a gallon.
I mean let's do that.
How about a subsidy to buy them? That's an interesting question but here is the issue the United States government has to get out of doing subsidies.
We can't afford them and that goes to renewables and a variety of other contexts.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Ashar Khan with Visium.
I guess this was alluded into one of the questions.
Just as you are talking a headline went across the taper on 110 that they're going to have some hearings on the nuclear loan guarantees.
Is that anything got to do with us or no? I frankly don't know.
I feel secure about our position with our loan guarantee.
And at this time there are no further questions.
Sir are there any closing remarks? Yes.
I just want to give Glen Kundert a chance to express his appreciation.
But before he does I just want to say thank you all for attending.
We appreciate your interest in Southern Company.
Glen you have the floor.
Well thank you Tom.
And I just want to say it's been great working with all of you in the financial community over the last 12 years.
I've made some great relationships and have appreciated all of you.
And I'm going to miss you -- maybe not miss the work so much but I'll certainly miss all of you.
And I look forward to seeing you during utility week in New York.
Thanks everyone.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the Southern Company Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Carrie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Southern Company Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dan Tucker Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Planning.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Carrie.
Welcome to Southern Company's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
Joining me this afternoon are Tom Fanning Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Company; and Art Beattie Chief Financial Officer.
Let me remind you that we will make forward-looking statements today in addition to providing historical information.
There are various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements including those discussed in our Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
We'll also be including slides as part of today's conference call.
These slides provide details on the information that will be discussed on this call.
You can access the slides on our Investor Relations website at www.southerncompany.com if you want to follow along during the presentation.
Now at this time I'll turn the call over to Tom Fanning Southern Company's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
As you can see from the materials we released this morning we had a solid year overall in 2011.
I'm especially pleased that in a business environment filled with challenges and uncertainties our systems still performed in an exemplary fashion delivering exceptional value to customers throughout our territory.
I'm also proud to report that on January 5 we celebrated our 100th anniversary as a holding company.
You may be aware that on that day Art Beattie rang the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange.
We were tapped by the New York Stock Exchange as a charter member of their new century club and we held a celebration in Atlanta that featured our 4 most recently retired CEOs: Ed Addison Bill Dahlberg Allen Franklin and David Ratcliffe.
Few businesses can claim to have been around for 100 years but Southern Company is now one of them.
And even as we honor our past we're already building for the future harnessing the energy and innovative spirit of our more than 26 000 employees to begin our next 100 years.
Against that backdrop I'd like to take a moment to update you on where we stand with our 5 strategic business priorities.
First remaining committed to our business model.
We continue to provide superior customer value in the form of industry-leading reliability low prices and exceptional customer service.
The 2011 peak season equivalent forced outage rate for our fossil/hydro generation was 1.3% the second best in our company's history and it compares to a historical industry average of around 7%.
We also continued a long-term trend of improved performance for our transmission and distribution assets.
And our employees performed heroically in restoring service to customers throughout 2011 during a series of catastrophic storms that included ice storms and tornadoes.
Meanwhile the price of our products remain well below the national average and our customer satisfaction is among the best in the nation.
These results and others are indicative of our strong commitment to customer value and are also a major reason Southern Company was named Power Company of the Year in December at the Platt's 2011 Global Energy Awards.
Second achieving success with our major construction projects.
Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 and Plant Ratcliffe in Kemper County Mississippi are progressing well.
All targets related to cost and schedule remained achievable.
We see that the combined construction and operating license or COL for Units 3 and 4 Plant Vogtle is imminent.
In the meantime nearly 2 000 workers are moving ahead with work on the site under the parameters of the original Limited Work Authorization.
Once the COL has been obtained we will begin placing rebar in the Unit 3 Nuclear Island to prepare for the pouring of the first concrete for the containment structure.
By year end 2012 we expect to increase the number of workers at the Vogtle site to 2 650 ultimately reaching a peak of approximately 5 000 workers in 2014.
The Vogtle project will ultimately impact some 25 000 jobs across the country offering a much-needed boost to our nation's ongoing economic recovery efforts.
At Plant Ratcliffe we continue to make progress as we prepare to introduce 21st Century Coal technology to the United States.
As of December 2011 we have already confirmed 2/3 of the project costs and expect to have confirmed nearly 90% by the end of 2012.
We have 1 100 workers on site today and expect to have around 2 000 at the project's peak.
Third arguing for a sensible national energy policy.
We continue to promote the concept of a common sense national energy policy that leverages all the arrows in the quiver nuclear 21st Century Coal natural gas renewables and energy efficiency and develop technology solutions not rhetoric through proprietary research and development.
On the regulatory front we are currently reviewing and assessing the EPA's final 1 100 page order for utility MACT now referred to as mercury and air toxic standards or MATS.
Our focus remains on finding the solution that's in the best interest of our customers.
We are also involved in other key constituencies in this review including the communities we serve as well as our state and public service commissions and permitting agencies.
We will discuss the MATS rule in greater detail later in this call.
Fourth promoting Smart Energy.
We are focusing R&amp;D efforts on promoting clean efficient and economic electro technologies to grow our share of energy sales.
This year we expect to achieve major progress adding to our Smart Grid infrastructure as we near completion of the addition of more than 4.6 million Smart Meters for customers throughout our territory.
This initiative will lead to better data gathering faster restoration times and improved power quality and provide one more illustration of our commitment to enhancing the value we provide to customers.
Fifth developing our people.
I think it's interesting to note that our results in 2011 were achieved with about 25% of our officers in new positions.
In addition to leveraging our own outstanding bench strength we also brought in a few key leaders from outside the company and we completed more than 400 transfers of employees between our various subsidiaries further proof of our commitment to keep developing our workforce.
The result of this is a more diverse more experienced and better functioning leadership team.
Elsewhere we continue to make strides in our efforts to build our reputation as an employer of choice.
Since our last earnings call we've been ranked by G.I.
Jobs Magazine as the number one military-friendly employer among all U.S.
utilities and the second highest among all U.S.
industry.
We were also recognizes as one of the best places to work in America by Business Insider Magazine.
In summary as our business continues to grow and evolve we will pursue the successful achievement of these 5 priorities all for the benefit of the customers and the communities we serve.
At this point I'll turn to Art for a discussion of our financial highlights for the fourth quarter and the full year as well as our guidance for 2012 and a summary of our financial outlook for the future.
Thanks Tom.
First I will review the fourth quarter and full year 2011 results then I will discuss our sales data economic outlook and sales forecast followed by our capital budget in 2012 financing plan.
I will conclude with our earnings guidance.
As Tom said our performance for the fourth quarter of 2011 was solid as was our performance for the full year.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 we reported earnings of $0.30 per share compared with $0.18 a share in the fourth quarter of 2010 an increase of $0.12 a share.
For the full year 2011 we reported earnings of $2.57 a share compared with $2.37 a share for the full year 2010 an increase of $0.20 a share.
Let's turn now to the major factors that drove our numbers for the full year 2011 compared with the full year 2010.
First the positive factors.
Increased industrial demand added $0.02 a share for the full year 2011 compared to the full year 2010.
Retail revenue effects in our traditional business added a total of $0.60 a share to our earnings for 2011 compared with 2010.
Most of this increase was the result of regulatory actions at Georgia Power that became effective in 2011.
Other operating revenues primarily increased transmission revenues added $0.02 a share to our earnings in 2011 compared with 2010.
Changes in our non-fuel O&amp;M spending for our traditional operating companies increased our earnings by $0.06 a share in 2011 compared with 2010.
This effect is due primarily to reductions in O&amp;M spending in 2011 as compared to increased spending in 2010 that result -- resulting from better-than-expected weather-related revenues in 2010.
A reduction in interest expense for our traditional operating companies increased our earnings by $0.02 a share during 2011 compared with the full year of 2010.
The addition of new long-term contracts and higher energy margins in Southern Power driven largely by the low price of natural gas increased our earnings by $0.04 a share in 2011 compared with 2010.
Finally lower parent and other expenses increased our earnings by $0.01 a share in 2011 compared with 2010.
Now let's turn to the negative factors that drove our earnings for the full year 2011.
Weather effects reduced our earnings by $0.21 a share during 2011 compared with 2010.
Weather was actually positive for the year coming in at $0.09 above normal but was negative when compared with the same period in 2010 which came in at $0.30 above normal.
Lower wholesale revenues at our traditional operating companies reduced our earnings by $0.05 a share in 2011 compared with 2010.
This decline in revenues is primarily due to the expiration in May of 2010 of a long-term capacity contract.
Increased depreciation and amortization reduced our earnings by $0.15 a share during 2011 compared with 2010.
Most of this was due to the expiration at the end of 2010 of the Georgia Power cost of removal accounting order and also to increased environmental transmission and distribution investments.
Other income and deductions reduced earnings by $0.05 a share in 2011 compared with 2010 the most significant contributor being a transition from AFUDC to cash recovery or Plant Vogtle cost construction financing cost.
Income taxes in our traditional business reduced earnings by $0.01 a share in 2011 compared with 2010 while taxes other than income taxes reduced our earnings by $0.02 a share in 2011 compared to 2010.
Finally an increase in the number of shares outstanding reduced our earnings by $0.08 a share in 2011 compared with 2010.
In conclusion we had $0.77 of positive items compared with $0.57 of negative items or a positive change of $0.20 per share over the full year 2010.
So overall our performance for the year came in at $2.57 per share.
Before I discuss our earnings guidance for 2012 I'd like to update you on our 2011 sales and the outlook for 2012 as well as our capital budget and financing plans.
We'll begin with a look at our 2011 retail sales.
In 2011 weather normal retail sales grew 1% compared with 2010.
Meanwhile GDP growth for 2011 was 1.8%.
Sales growth was driven by the continued recovery of industrial sales which grew 3.2% in 2011 compared with 2010.
Industrial growth continued to be led by primary metals and fabricated metal sectors which grew by 15% and 11% respectively in 2011 compared to 2010.
These sectors were driven by demand for flat steel in the auto industry and steel pipe associated with oil and gas exploration and delivery.
Petroleum refining and pipelines increased usage by 13% and 8% respectively in 2011 following expansions and production capacity.
Other steady performers in 2011 included the transportation sector up 4% and chemicals up 1%.
As we have reported all-year-long construction-related sectors particularly related to housing continued to experience weakness.
Analysis suggests that a great deal of the positive industrial performance can be traced to increases in export activity.
The value of exports from the region is 25% higher today than in 2007 and market diversity has increased with exports to Europe dropping by almost 1/3 and market share to Asia and Central and South America expanding.
Residential and commercial sales continued to be flat in 2011 due to weak job growth.
Now let's move on to the economic outlook for 2012.
Earlier this month we reconvened our economic roundtable group which is composed of regional economist and major industrial and commercial customers served by our operating companies.
The observations of the group which are consistent with our own view can be summarized as follows: The national economy is expected to grow in 2012 but growth will be weak and sensitive to shocks; GDP growth is expected to be between 2% and 3%; The industrial sector will continue to lead the recovery with exports playing a major role; The European economy will be a risk factor that could slow global economic growth; Employment is expected to grow but not enough to significantly reduce unemployment; Job growth and increased availability of credit are keys to improving the housing market which is a linchpin to the improvement of residential and commercial sales growth; And political and regulatory uncertainty is contributing to the lack of clarity about the pace of the recovery of the economy.
Translating this into implications for sales we project that based on a GDP growth assumption of 2.6% in 2012 retail sales growth will be 1.3%.
Industrial activity is expected to continue to lead our sales growth at 1.6% as export volumes remain strong and domestic demand increases.
Manufacturing productivity is expected to continue to increase aided by the ability of our regions' outstanding port facilities to reach out to new markets and create new opportunities for growth.
Weak job creation is expected to continue tempering residential and commercial sales growth.
Residential sales are expected to grow at 1.3% in 2012 while commercial sales growth is expected to be 1.1%.
The good news is that once the economic fog clears stronger growth in the Southeast economy should return given the strong long-term growth fundamentals of the region.
Economic development activity remained steady with more than 250 prospects considering locating within our territory representing more than 40 000 potential jobs.
The auto industry remains a strong player in the recovery.
In 2012 Kia will expand its manufacturing capacity adding 1 000 jobs and a variety of auto-related companies will likewise add jobs this year.
Meanwhile Mercedes-Benz has already begun work on its previously announced expansion which is scheduled to be completed in 2014.
All of these indicates a continuing preference to locate in the Southeast which reflects our region's low cost of living and of doing business abundant labor and favorable climate.
We remain confident in our region's ability to continue its ongoing recovery.
Now I'd like to move to a discussion of our capital expenditure forecast for the next 3 years.
Similar to last year our forecast is composed of 2 major elements: our base forecast; and potential compliance investments which represents the uncertainty associated with MATS as well as anticipated new coal ash and water rules.
Our base forecast for 2012 through 2014 totals $14 billion.
This reflects new generation for our traditional operating companies of $4 billion including $2.2 billion for Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 and $1.5 billion for Plant Ratcliffe in Kemper County Mississippi.
Other major components of this base forecast includes maintenance capital of $4.3 billion and $1.8 billion for transmission and distribution growth investments.
A crucial factor in the potential compliance investment portion of our capital forecast is the impact of the EPA's new MATS rule.
As Tom indicated earlier we are reviewing the final rule issued in December but a number of uncertainties remain.
I would like to summarize those briefly.
In the process of going from proposal to the final rule the Edison Electric Institute recommended 11 modifications to the EPA.
One of these was related to the compliance timeline while the others were more technical in nature.
The final rule which we expect to be published by mid-February did not grant much additional relief on the compliance timeline.
There were some technical adjustments particularly to the particulate matter standard and the plant-wide averaging which may provide some additional flexibility.
There were other changes as well including emission limits during startup and shutdown that were offered.
Much more analysis is needed before we know whether these changes afford us additional flexibility.
As Tom indicated earlier we are engaged in discussions with community officials and state regulators to incorporate their input into our compliance plans.
We are fortunate to have strong community leadership and knowledgeable constructive public service commissions and staffs in our territory.
The participation of those entities will have an influence on our compliance plan and schedule decision and we cannot finalize our plans until those discussions are complete.
Based on our initial assessment the compliance plan for Southern's 20 000 megawatts of coal-fired capacity could include the following: new emissions reduction equipment primarily baghouses on up to 12 000 megawatts of our flagship coal-fired capacity; potential retirements of up to 4 000 megawatts; and fuel switching on up to 3 200 megawatts of coal- and oil-fired capacity to other fuels such as natural gas.
Our plans also include significant infrastructure improvements including natural gas and electric transmission upgrades to ensure adequate reliability on our system.
Based on that our potential compliance investments for 2012 through '14 are projected at a total of up to $4.4 billion.
Of that up to $1.6 billion represents potential compliance investments for other proposed rules around ash and water.
Overall our 3-year capital forecast for 2012 through 2014 is for a total of up to $18.4 billion.
The major trend reflected in this forecast is that the potential compliance spending is ramping up as some of our base projects are winding down.
The 3-year break down also reflects that our potential compliance spending of up to $400 million in the first year is not a major component for 2012.
We will continue to update you on our capital forecast as new details emerge.
Now let's turn to a summary of our financing plan for the same 3-year period.
Long-term debt issuances are expected to be up to $10.4 billion over the next 3 years.
In addition DOE Loan guarantees for Vogtle 3 and 4 and for Plant Ratcliffe in Kemper County could represent up to $4.3 billion or about 40% of the total.
Our 3-year financing plan assumes common equity issuances of up to $1.9 billion.
We stopped issuing new shares through most of our equity plans in early 2011.
Since then we have only utilized stock option exercises to provide new equity.
We ended 2011 with an equity ratio of 44% and our current plan assumes modest common equity issuances over the next 2 years.
We anticipate turning our other equity plans back on later in this 3-year horizon as potential environmental compliance spending increases.
Overall our financing plan continues to support our industry-leading financial integrity while maintaining our well-managed debt portfolio and a common equity ratio of approximately 44%.
To begin our earnings guidance discussion I'd like to take you back to what we shared with you during our fourth quarter earnings call a year ago and at our analyst day shortly thereafter.
At that time we provided long-term EPS guidance that was based on our 2010 earnings guidance range of $2.30 to $2.36 per share.
We profiled a trajectory that grew the bottom of the range by 5% every year and the top of the range by 7% every year.
And as we've said our 2011 guidance was slightly higher than our long-term trajectory largely due to the significant year-over-year improvement in earnings we saw coming out of the recession and some of the constructive -- and some of our constructive regulatory results.
We are providing a 2012 earnings guidance range of $2.58 to $2.70 per share.
This guidance reflects current uncertainties and normal variability.
We believe our 5% to 7% long-term growth trajectory which is anchored to 2010 guidance is still appropriate and our 2012 annual earnings per share guidance is positioned largely in the top half of that range.
That said we recognize that continuing to anchor long-term growth to 2010 guidance may be impractical over time.
Therefore we will now characterize our long-term earnings per share growth trajectory as being 4% to 7% as indexed against the 2012 earnings guidance range.mAs you can see from the slide this is essentially equivalent to our original long-term trajectory.
In fact it narrows expectations in the near term to the higher end of the range we provided in 2010.
In summary our earnings guidance for 2012 is $2.58 to $2.70 per share and our longer term growth trajectory is 4% to 7% off of that range.
As always the variability and long-term range is based on several factors including uncertainty in our compliance investments and uncertain pace of economic recovery and other considerations.
We remain confident in our ability to pursue our goal of growing earnings and dividends in a sustainable manner.
Lastly our estimate for the first quarter of 2012 is $0.45 per share.
At this point I'll turn the call over to Tom for his closing remarks.
Thanks Art.
In closing let me reiterate that our business model priorities and financial objectives remain in place for 2012.
We are well positioned to continue providing exceptional customer value which should translate into exceptional shareholder value in the form of reasonable EPS growth with an attractive dividend yield at one of the lowest risk profiles in the industry.
Despite the uncertainties that remain we are confident in our ability to navigate the challenges of 2012 in much the same way that we have navigated the challenges of 2011 by staying true to our fundamentals and delivering on our commitment to customers employees communities and shareholders.
At this point we are ready to take your questions.
So operator we will now take the first question.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Daniel Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just kind of now we have MATS in place and you've put some numbers out there for what the environmental CapEx could be.
Are those numbers cumulative to what you'd have to spend over the entire compliance period or is that just the 3-year period and there would be additional spending in ‘15 ‘16 to get the full compliance that you see right now? Just 3 years.
Research Division</strong> So that should be that 3-year period? So there will be more money in that Q beyond that.
That's correct.
Absolutely.
Research Division</strong> When did you guys expect to kind of get to the process with the regulators to formalize that CapEx plan? Well I think we need to get clarity on the proposed rule.
And from time to time we move from proposed rule to final rule to published rule.
I think haven't [ph] we seen in cross states that from final rule to published rule things can change.
So we still wait with a lot of interest to see what the published rule will be.
And like I said we're going to have to go through with the stage and just -- and all the people we mentioned that kind of fully assess.
Because remember this is not some academic exercise.
What happens here when you start talking about changing out plans and retiring or mothballing some or converting some you're impacting tax base of local communities you're impacting unemployment in largely rural areas you're impacting real income of people out there.
These are not bloodless decisions.
These are things we take very seriously when we think about how we engage with customers on a day-to-day basis.
Look the time frame varies from state-to-state.
You know that we deal in Georgia and Alabama and Mississippi and Northern Florida.
So each state will have it's own process and own timeline to go through.
It's hard to say in kind of a general statement what that might be.
Research Division</strong> Then I guess with the 4% to 7% growth rate is that taking into -- would 7% reflect if you had to do the full amount of spending? Or would that -- or how does I guess this environmental CapEx fit into that band? That's generally correct.
The more CapEx we spend the higher you are up [ph] in the range.
And of course there are other factors too right? But that's a reasonable way to think about it.
Research Division</strong> And the slide has vanished in my screen but it seemed to go to the right -- further than a couple of years.
Is this kind of a decade-long growth rate? Is that -- how are you guys thinking about it now? No 3 years.
Your next question comes from Brian Chin with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Sorry if I missed this earlier in your prepared comments but that base environmental number would that -- does that already include some element of CSAPR in it? Or if the CSAPR rule gets finalize at some point in the next 12 to 18 months do you expect [indiscernible]? The base CapEx includes projects that most of which are currently ongoing.
I believe the Daniel scrubber might be in that particular project but when you talk about CSAPR most of the -- we'll address most of the CSAPR issues through the MAT compliance.
So you won’t have a whole lot of extra stuff on top of what we're doing for MATS to comply with CSAPR.
Let me just add in a different way too.
It's a very important point we raise right here.
It's one thing to say your CapEx budget is going to be influenced by MACT by CSAPR what you really have to do and what we've been consistent about arguing about here is that the whole litany of cascading regulations coming out of the EPA will have some bear on what our CapEx and ultimately our generation and transmission expansion plans ultimately will look like.
So we could make estimates on that.
So we can make estimates on CSAPR but ultimately it's the whole consequence of what's happening with ash and 316B and a variety of other things.
The other thing that I think we should point out here too CSAPR cross state rule has never been all that important on its own for Southern.
In other words we would handle that mostly through our dispatch and it would show up in energy as opposed to capital.
Research Division</strong> Very very helpful.
And then just one other follow-up question.
That is the retail sales growth outlook for 2011 was I think 2%.
Now it looks like the outlook's closer to 1.3%.
Just any -- a little bit of extra color on what's causing that deceleration? Well we're looking on a lot of uncertainty out there Brian.
One of the economists in our economic roundtable group kind of described it as fog on the road and there's not a whole lot of clarity out there.
And when there's fog of the road people either drive a lot slower or they don't drive at all.
And so with that uncertainty and the range of GDP estimates you have out there I think that's kind of describing the outlook we have.
So it's cautious on our regard.
There are still risks out there.
But the data economic data we've seen here of late is on the positive side so...
Yes [indiscernible] we've seen unemployment tick down in December particularly in the Southeast about 0.5% round numbers in the Southeast.
So it looks like jobs are starting to be created.
We do a survey companies that are going to either there are kind of 3 states in nature increased hiring keep hiring constant or decrease hiring.
Some time ago it was 1/3 1/3 1/3 among those 3.
And the Atlanta Fed now projects that it's about 45% round numbers 45% it will increase hiring 45% it will keep it constant and then 10% that will decrease hiring.
So we're starting to see signals.
The other things we've talked about are all coming to fruition.
Everything we've suggested in the past about economic development is in fact happening.
So as we start to see these expansions at Chevron or at Austal or at Mercedes or at Kia or at Gulfstream those things are happening and they will generate jobs as they come to fruition.
Your next question comes from Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on drivers of 1Q earnings guidance? What are the drivers 1Q earnings guidance? Go ahead.
I thought you had a specific question.
Okay.
Actually a lot of it was driven by the same revenue effects that we described for the annual period about $0.16 there.
Weather was an offset at $0.08.
Non-fuel O&amp;M was a $0.05 positive.
Depreciation and amortization was negative $0.04.
I believe this is outlined on the slide at the top end of the earning slide.
Did you want Q1 of '12 or did you want Q1 of -- Q4? Research Division</strong> I'm sorry I wanted Q1 of '12.
Well you've got some rate effects that go into effect -- that were outlined in the same rate settlement at Georgia last year.
The weather effect from last year we had some positive weather in the first quarter of last year.
So on a year-over-year basis you would expect some mitigation there.
Our estimate of growth last year was stronger for sales growth in residential commercial.
It's a little bit weaker this year.
So are you trying to get to our 45% -- $0.45 earnings estimate for the first quarter? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I'm just trying to reconcile 50 to 45? Well we have a lot of weather in last year first quarter.
I think that's the biggest driver.
Research Division</strong> You have that offhand? We can probably get it.
Hold on.
Research Division</strong> Opening that big black book? Yes.
Are you kidding me? That's $0.02.
And you know -- everybody knows that we do our estimates on weather-normal basis so any comparison will just be...
Yes correct.
Your next question comes from Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> So I guess I got to ask because as I look at the tail of the tape and think about the economic assumptions that you baked into your forecast since '08 '09 you generally erred to the conservative side pretty much running out the strings since we came out of the recession in terms of the ultimate level of economic activity sales growth et cetera that you've experienced.
Is there a scenario that drives you -- what scenario would drive you to the high end or above the high end of your earnings guidance range? Or is there one that's even within the tails of your analysis? Sure.
I mean the question of is there a tail in our estimates that would drive us one way or another that's absolutely right.
Now we've got to figure out how likely that is I guess that's the key.
But obviously when you think about it if you look at – and help me out with the numbers here -- 1% change in sales is worth about $120 million -- I'm looking here real quick $120 revenue something like that.
And so if we project $1.3 million so if we get up to $2.3 million you're up that much right? If essentially sales are flat you're down that low.
What we've been able to do is just kind of manage our systems to adjust to the normal variables.
That's how we've been able to be very consistent over time.
For example weather.
For example changes in the economy.
For example what's going to happen with commodities? One of the stories I think that's interesting in our industry over the past year has been what's going on with natural gas.
Southern Power obviously has benefited from that.
What's going to happen with oil prices in the Strait of Hormuz? And what's going to happen therefor to the weight of oil in the economy? What’s going to happen with Europe? What's going to happen with our ability to generate real job growth and sustain the growth of the economy in light of this fog that Art metaphorically spoke for? But hopefully kind of this notion of tail risk is kind of that plus or minus 1% $120 million with our ability to manage our business to accommodate those changes? Greg over the years we've been pretty good at both managing our business to fit within the variables that we normally face and providing the best operations arguably in the industry for the benefit of our customers.
Research Division</strong> Yes I see that.
I listen very closely to what you guys say about economic activity because you appear to be very diligent and plugged into your customers and that shows up in lots of ways.
But I guess I look at the earnings forecast and I contextualize it based on what you've actually earned relative to the guidance ranges for '10 '11 and now for '12 $2.37 and $2.57.
Now the guidance range.
So as investors look at the actuals we're looking at 0.4% growth at the low end and 5% on the high-end off of what you've actually earned last year.
And I understand that that you contextualized it in terms of anchor aspirations off of '10.
I think it's just giving some people some pause that maybe there's something going on in terms of economic activity not being as robust.
No.
I think if you just look at weather compared to normal in past 2 years.
Remember we're weather normal; it's the way we estimate.
You had big weather 2 years ago good weather I mean positive for the last year.
I think another thing Greg if you look at weather-normal sales growth in residential commercial we've had basically flat growth for 2 years now.
So our estimates about economic growth continuing there are still kind of tentative.
We're still waiting for that to catch and start moving northwards so we've estimated increase in sales again this year not quite as robust as we did last year.
But we were able to offset that loss with what Tom just mentioned some positive weather.
And if you go back I'm interested in your comment about the context of earnings growth.
That's why we show these charts that say we started with 2010 230 to 236 and we grow at 7% and 5% and we explained why we thought we will be higher in '11 sure enough we were and we explained why we think we're in the top half roughly in '12.
One of the benefits of the way we run our business is that we provide a business I think that provides a regular predictable sustainable growth and earnings per share.
That's been our history and I hope it will continue to be our history.
There's nothing -- there's no lack of transparency in I think our assumption of the economy.
Your next question comes from Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Tom I wanted to come back to your comments on the MATS rule that's come out.
If I'm hearing you correctly is the implication that the rules are now final? I know you said final wasn't published.
There could be something tinkering there.
But unlike CSAPR should we not assume any legal challenges? Should we assume that you're going to plan around this? Can you just give us a little more insight on your strategy on this? Sure.
Strategy remains the same really for any of these issues that are in front of us; and that is to represent the interest of our customers to provide the cleanest most reliable most economically sensible product available.
And so therefore we will engage constructively in any front that represents the interest of our customers whether that's a regulatory issue a legislative issues or litigation if necessary.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I mean is there a scenario in which you could see some kind of delays or MATS legal challenges to this MATS rule? Sure.
I mean there always is.
If the question is if there's a scenario the answer is yes.
But you have to assess kind of the fact that the situation at hand and what the issues are.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My other question was given the CapEx that you've laid out for us and whether you layered in the extra environmental CapEx above of that.
Can you remind us what kind of annualized rate-based growth over those 3-year period that supports? Yes Ali this is Art.
Roughly about 7% but remember that that's a lumpy growth as plants go into service.
So you'll see fits and starts there.
But on average about 7% will run.
Yes 7%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's an annual number right? Correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And does that include the extra environmental CapEx in there as well? Probably that would be on top of that but it's further out.
Remember those projects won't go into service until after the 2014 time line we've outlined for you.
And remember that's the difference is what clears in the rate base and what's spending before that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I mean on that note last question I mean if you look at your CapEx budget and if you layer on top of that the environmental CapEx that's going to go in at some level.
Does that have implications to that earnings growth rate you've layered out for us or does that still give you in that 4% to 7% range even factoring in that extra environmental CapEx? It's what we said before I think.
The more CapEx you will see the higher in the range we will be.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Like in the range? Yes.
Yes.
Your next question comes from Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Quick question on the retirement forecast.
I know this is something out in 2011 but does that include I can't recall if it included any impact from the ash and water rules? I know you give the kind of CapEx sensitivity there but is that a number that might move higher if there's kind of a more aggressive case regulation? Certainly it could.
I mean we believe that -- for example ash -- coal ash should not be classified as a hazardous waste.
To the extent it was that certainly would change our thinking on what our portfolio looks like.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But you don't really have kind of a number around what that might look like? Well what we've said about ash and 316B I think is that we're looking at 3-year CapEx about $1.6 billion.
And I think our assumption there is that it is...
It's non-hazardous.
Non-hazardous.
Hazardous designation would change the game of energy supply in America in a really dramatic way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when I look at that $1.6 billion number then that's almost all coming from the coal ash and not necessarily the water or -- I'm sorry that's both.
That's both.
Your next question comes from Andy Levi with Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
As far as the slight reduction in the growth rate I mean that's primarily kind of uncertainty around sales is that...
It's really tied to the economy.
Yes and I wouldn't denote it as a reduction in the earnings growth rate.
If you look of the slide it actually still outlines the same cone of growth that we expected.
before.
So the 4% at the bottom yes you might justify it based on some combination of scenarios that work against you but it's still no different than what we outlined a year ago.
Yes and if we were using 2010 as a base it's still 5% to 7%.
All we're doing is the guidance we're giving you is in the top half roughly of the range that we've laid out here for 2 years.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And again that -- so that growth rate is off in 2011 not off of 2010? No it's off of 2012.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> By 2012 excuse me.
Okay.
That's very important.
Okay and then just as you're thinking I mean the Fed came out today said they're going to keep interest rates low through 2014 versus 2013.
In your assumptions what were you assuming as far as just future financing and kind of where interest rates would be in '13 and '14 as an example? Yes Andy I don't have the specifics of what we're assuming.
But we take generally the input off of what we get from the economic advisers to us.
They maybe may be a little higher than what the Fed kind of forecasted out today but we can call you back and get you that number.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'm just thinking maybe there would be some type of benefit for you considering you guys do a lot of financing.
Well we do.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the last thing just any update on when we're actually going to get this deal out.
I mean obviously the process is basically done but anything you'd like to share with us? Yes.
[indiscernible]  I said was imminent.
It's any day now.
I know we're all impatient on getting this COL but you got to remember this whole process undertaken by the NRC has been really thorough it's been thoughtful.
It's had the participation of all the different constituents that have an interest and whether or not nuclear is built in America.
This thing all works to all our benefit.
So getting it right and having everybody satisfied dotting every I and crossing every T at the end of the day is a good thing.
Because we've got a lots of years ahead of us and lots of money to spend so we all are impatient to get it but I think it's actually a good thing at the end of the day.
Your next question comes from Angie Storozynski with Macquarie.
Okay.
So I just wanted to go back to the discussion about the low-growth assumptions and the potential conservatism that is built into those numbers.
I'm looking at your actual weather-normalized data for 2011 and your sales grew about 1% versus 2.2% that you expected.
Looking at the March presentation.
And also you are assuming quite a significant pickup year-over-year for commercial and residential sales.
Can you actually I mean I don't quite understand what could drive this.
I mean do you have maybe limited visibility on the economy as we all do? But what would be the drivers for commercial and residential growth? Angie this is Art.
What we are assuming there is as we mentioned in our script I believe that job growth would begin.
It wouldn't be a lot to alleviate the unemployment situation but enough to stimulate growth in both our residential and our commercial areas.
Tom alluded to an Atlanta Fed survey where CEOs of companies around the Southeast are now indicating that more of them are in a hiring position than they were 6 months ago.
These are all indicators that we have that will lead to more job growth more household growth create increases in customers on both residential and commercial side.
But isn't your residential demand more driven by migration into your space than maybe growth in usage or accounts? Well there's lots of factors there.
And [ph] migration is still continuing.
but it has slightly dropped since the recession.
So we continue to look at those and try to evaluate what it really means for us as we move forward.
But Angie I mean that's a good point.
Look industrial activity creates jobs; jobs create opportunities for people to move in.
It unlocks the housing sector and that creates more activity in stone clay glass and building materials and a variety of other things.
So it primes the pump to restart the engine.
Our belief is that we'll just start seeing the jobs and in fact this whole process will start to regenerate.
The key I guess is housing at the end of day.
That's something that we look for very closely in all our statistics.
Great.
And then when I look at your fourth quarter results there is at least a chunk of the earnings came from lower O&amp;M.
And it's already -- we've been a couple of years into managing expenses.
Should we assume that if sales were to disappoint you that you have enough of the cost that you could trim to meet your expectations -- earnings expectations? Yes Angie in 2010 you remember we had a lot of weather-related revenue and we spent a lot of that money in the fourth quarter of 2010 doing extra maintenance.
We actually pulled some outages out of 2011 into 2010.
And so when you do a year-over-year comparison O&amp;M went down.
But that ability to do that to fix the roof when the sun's out actually gives -- puts us in great shape to be more flexible on O&amp;M as we move forward into 2012.
And I think if you look at our longer-term trend don't go year-to-year if you went back 3 years 4 years I think our number's around 2.8%.
Correct.
Compounding of growth in O&amp;M.
So it's a decent number.
Your next question comes from Jim von Riesemann with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of simple questions.
The first one is on financing if you don't mind.
So back in December Congress was considering this extension of the bonus depreciation to 100% in 2012 and then into 2013 and they are largely expected or they're expected to take it up again in February right? Right.
Research Division</strong> So if it's passed what are the sensitivities with respect to your equity needs going forward? All right good question.
I think the assumptions we have for bonus depreciation assuming the 50% level are $450 million to $600 million.
And if we were to get the extra bump we’d pick up somewhere around $300 million to $400 million more and that's just kind of rough numbers.
Research Division</strong> And then incrementally into 2013 what does that look like? I don't have anything on '13 but it be more and our ability to actually use it.
So -- and the effect on equity would certainly reduce the effects but we'd have to manage that as we move through time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question I'll use your phrase "fog on the road " you talked a lot about sales.
Can you talk a little bit about what your customer growth expectations are? Yes Jim.
We actually had flat customer growth last year which is again reflective of our results in the residential and commercial side.
We're expecting about 14 000 customer growth in 2012.
And that again reflects the assumptions we are making on job growth within those particular areas.
It's hard to mention that in the good old days back when I was CFO we had something like growth of like 50 000 customers a year.
Our number this year we're projecting like 15 000 round numbers.
And customers were flat last year or have even -- some people had slightly negative.
Remember we had these enormous tornadoes go through Alabama for example that have devastated a lot of dwelling.
And so we had some effect you've got to kind of look through those numbers to see what was the tornado effect.
But anyway so 15 000 is kind of what we're expecting out of a normal number of 50 000 but we certainly haven't been there in a couple of years.
Your next question comes from Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of things.
One was I think some of the commentary around your ability to manage a slower recovery kind of seems to have being focused on 2012.
What kind of sales number do you need in that '13 '14 to kind of keep you in that growth cone if you like? And how long do you have? And how far beyond '12 could you keep sort of moving the expense needle to keep you in that channel? That's an interesting question.
I suppose normally what you have seen with Southern is variability.
Remember we went through all of these other factors.
It's not just economic growth it's weather and a variety of other things right? If you saw sustained low-economic growth likely that would have some impact on the stress on your system and a variety of other things.
In other words you're not running your plants as hard you're not having to stress on the wires part of the business et cetera.
So there is some correlation if you will between a slowing economy and a slowing O&amp;M spend rate number one.
Number two the folks that run our business that make move and sell electricity do a terrific job in thinking about the optionality of best bang for the buck with every dollar they spend on their base level of expenditure.
And then they have very clear ideas as revenues start to appear with the variability of weather where they spend it and where we get the best bang for the buck.
The truth in that shows up in operating statistics our industry-leading EFOR our now more than 10-year trajectory of great performance in our transmission and distribution business.
My sense is Jonathan through the period I think we can handle within the range that we've given you a sustained very low-growth economy.
Where wouldn't we if that's your question.
Where...
Research Division</strong> Tom can I just frame the question a little differently like how much of the 4% if you like is coming out of capital spend and environmental? And how much is coming from just organic growth in the business? Could that frame it a little better? I don't know.
So how much of the low end of the range? The low end of the range will be hit if you have bad economic growth milder weather and low CapEx.
That's kind of how you get there.
To the extent CapEx picks up to the extent you have better weather you're going to be in a different spot.
Research Division</strong> Add to that low -- the economic growth you'd define as? Like 0.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's clear.
Can I ask on one other topic? Sure.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us a sense of whether your contracted position on coal look sort of any different going into 2012 than say it did going into 2011? And a sense at these kind of very low gas prices how much incremental kind of shift on the system we could see from coal to gas and probably due to contract and price? Yes look we've been very kind of transparent in the past.
We've got some really interesting stuff to talk about here.
In the fourth quarter wait let me back up 4 years ago or way back when I was doing CFO or COO even we were about 70% of our energy from coal and about I don't know 16% from nuclear about 12% from gas and the balance from hydro.
In the fourth quarter this was really surprising to me -- maybe not surprising considering how cheap gas is now -- our energy production was 40% coal 39% gas.
I used to say we would reach a 40-40 split sometime after 2015.
Well sure enough we hit it in the fourth quarter of '11.
Now moving forward given where gas prices are we will continue to see much more gas production so it'll become more important.
In terms of how we're managing our fuel stocks we have already going back into '11 started thinking about in light of what may come down the road with HAPs MACT now MATS and a variety of other issues associated with new regulations out of EPA started putting more optionality into contracts shortening up the term of those contracts and thinking about how to be flexible in transportation arrangement.
So all of that is being taken into account.
Kind of what I used to say 4 years ago would have been that if you looked at our weighted average coal supply we were kind of in the 3.5 to 4-year range remember it was 100% committed in the year and then it would go to 80% and 60% and 40% and all that.
Imagine that being shrunken a bit so it's shorter in its duration and it is probably more flexible in any given year.
So what may be 100% today maybe 60% tomorrow may be 40% maybe 20%.
So we've already started working all that through the system.
Is that okay? Research Division</strong> Tom do you think you could go north of 40% gas in Q1 here? It sounds like you've put it on the threshold? Yes you were on the threshold.
Time will tell.
Your next question comes from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two easy two quick questions for you.
One Art have you ever framed what your EPS sensitivity as to every 1% change in retail load? That's the first one.
And the second one is do you think you're at the early stages when it comes to residential and small commercial usage in terms of a structural change in the kind of the megawatt hour demand versus GDP correlations? I got the last one.
You get the first.
The first question was sensitivity to 1% change in sales? Was that it Michael? Research Division</strong> Yes that is it.
If sales was 1% higher or lower than forecast.
Yes I gave them revenue before.
Right it depends on how it's spread Michael.
If you do it across all classes it's about $98 million in revenue and if you assume that you don't mitigate it in some way in your spending side then it would be about $0.075.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
Okay? Research Division</strong> Thank you.
And on the other item? So on the other item that was the relationship between GDP growth and electric sales right? Research Division</strong> Yes especially for res and small commercial.
This is fun.
I love this stuff.
So we argue with each other all the time what's going on here and we had used in the past a relationship -- it has really born its math.
It carries its water as a theory.
But that you should look at electricity sales as about 60% of GDP growth.
Now what we've done here in our projections is use a number like 50% not 60%.
So we in our normal conservative nature backed off a little bit.
But there's a very interesting development in our numbers.
As we were peeling the onion getting ready for this call there is an interesting trend.
If you look at usage usage is flat among our customers particularly in residential and commercial.
And there is always this interesting question about "What's the penetration of energy efficiency?" And yet usage was flat.
One of the things that we're debating right now is this idea that the economy is actually getting more electrified if you will.
That as the economy grows more and more of the energy share is going to electricity-driven technology.
And I think you can see that with these beautiful plasma screen TVs and iPhones and iPads and all the other stuff we have.
So that's kind of interesting.
So what you may see is maybe some energy efficiency certainly as you replace an air-conditioner you got a more efficient air-conditioner.
So I think you're seeing share of electricity as a part of GDP growth grow and some effect on either active or passive energy efficiency.
So the relationship appears to be constant.
But the components within the relationship appear to be changing.
Fascinating stuff.
Your next question comes from Nathan Judge with Atlantic Equities.
Just on general kind of macro question here.
As we look across the United States and there's been a lot more gas natural gas coming to market than some had expected at least I had a year ago it seems to be continually -- the price was continually falling.
Just thinking about how that relates to your CapEx forecast and options as it relates to what you do as far as EPA-related retrofits and how close are we -- for you instead of using a backhouse you can perhaps convert some more old plants into nat gas plants? Yes sure.
Piece of cake.
So let's kind of dive through that a bit.
So of the 12 000-megawatt those are our flagship unit Bowen Scherer Miller some are Wansley some are Barry et cetera.
Those will vary.
The maximum amount of baghouses I think we're considering right now is 17.
As we suggested there could be a variable nature of that.
We may require less which gives us the spread that we try to indicate to you and please let me reinforce with the community out there we're trying to give you the best estimate we can.
There is still a significant amount of uncertainty there okay number one.
Number two when you think about the expansion plans going forward remember that one of the advantages we have being in an integrated regulated market as opposed to the so-called organize markets or merchant markets is that we are able to account for expansion planning as a portfolio and we are able to iterate around optimal solutions between the types of generation and transmission solutions and they are iterative.
So when I think about what's in front of us here remember that some of our portfolio divisions have already been cast.
That is 1 000 megawatts or so from Plant Vogtle units 3 and 4 McDonough 2 500 megawatts or a little bit more.
Georgia Power is out for a solicitation marginally it's going to be gas I think of around 1 500 megawatts.
That's coming a little bit later.
We have Kemper County in Mississippi which is going to have an environmental signature better than or equivalent to natural gas 582 megawatts.
Remember some time ago we moved Plant Miller one of the greatest coal plants in America in terms of efficiency and cost profile to our customers into -- moved it away from wholesale into retail.
So Alabama is pretty well spoken for.
So those decisions have already been made so what you're talking about is really decisions around the margin.
In other words shutting down mothballing whatever the right word is 4 000-megawatt that kind of appears to be a dominant solution right now.
We'll see.
And then of the 3 200 megawatts we talked about in more specificity what we have said is likely candidates for that are: older smaller coal units that currently don't have SCRs or scrubbers that will be converted into rather high heat rate units like 10 000 to 11 000 heat-rate gas-fired units.
Would we do more of that? No.
That's about the right level I think.
And there's not a lot of future bandwidths for variability in how we had to the system going forward.
There's going to be some around the edges but I wouldn't expect big changes.
As I suggested to you we're already committed on a portfolio that we think meets all the needs of our customers in a clean effective low-cost way.
That's very very thorough.
Just as it then pertains onto the nuclear plant could you provide some type of timeline or some type of idea what risks there are if -- I'm not suggesting there it will be but let's say in 6 months’ time or a year time or whatever it may be investors should start looking at the NRC's lack of giving this COL out as being concerning? In my opinion either the delay whatever of the COL the reason we haven't gotten it -- it's imminent at any day whatever you believe about that that shouldn't be concerning at all.
In the bigger scope of things like I said before I think I applaud the process we've gone through.
Do I wish it's gone quicker? Sure but I think given the scope given the timeframe I think you're kind of quibbling around the edges here.
I think it's more important to get it right and have all the parties involved either completed satisfied and that's where we are.
Recall too that the process that we follow in building Vogtle 3 and 4 is a commercial relationship between us and the consortium that is Toshiba Westinghouse Shaw.
Recall too that we have a very transparent relationship with our commission independent evaluator the staff the PSC itself.
And recall too that from the time the plant was originally certified we have delivered to the customers of Georgia Power company over $1 billion of incremental value.
Remember and recall that it takes kind of 4 forms.
One is the fact that we had a variable contract and we fixed portions of that contract and you can look at our disclosure because otherwise it's protected under our commercial agreement.
Secondly that we got loan guarantees.
Third that we got CWIP that will inure to the benefit of our customers by about $300 million.
And fourth CWIP -- production tax credit that's the other one.
And I even think we're reasonably conservative there because remember the production tax credit amount was dependent upon how many nuclear projects were going to get built.
Well it's often SCANA it looks like.
So I think our estimate there is conservative.
So when we say that we've delivered over $1 billion of value and you do recall that that is part of the testimony in the August proceedings in front of the Georgia Public Service Commission I think we're in great shape.
I think the Vogtle project Units 3 and 4 are going to deliver tremendous value and I think that is shared by the people in the state of Georgia.
If I could just redirect that question could you just give us a milestone and perhaps a magnitude of -- and I appreciate that unfortunately some of the investors including myself don't have clarity into the processes as some do and I just wanted to see if there's a milestone that we could look to.
I just take it in consideration of what you said in I think in your Analyst Day as about being year-end and we're just past that now.
-- Yes but I mean okay look it's a 10-year project and the delay has been about a month.
Remember the DCD was real important.
We got 5-0 vote on the design.
I wouldn't attach a lot of angst to the delay of the COL.
We still have -- we've been able to work through the LWAB.
Remember we put in the LWAA and we still have 1 000 people or more on-site they're doing productive work.
We have been able to work within those structures in order to be efficient and effective.
Recall too we talked about when we say that all thresholds are achievable that is in relation to cost and schedule.
We have flexibility going forward.
How we decide to execute that flexibility in some respects is a commercial matter between us and a consortium and us and our regulators.
So I wouldn't personally feel angst about where we are right now.
I actually think that the project is doing great.
Great.
And just if I may one...
Yes I'm sorry was that responsive? Can I hit anything else specific? We have milestones yes you mentioned milestone.
One of the things that will be interesting as we go forward will be the development of what they call ITAACS.
It's an acronym for some I-T-A-A-C-S and I never remember what that stands for.
But what those are are tests that will be developed around the systems of each of the units as we go forward there'll be hundreds of them.
So it's almost like as you're building a house.
You want to test the AC system.
You want to test the kitchen.
You want to test the -- and so there will be several of those going forward.
And one of the challenges that we have said to ourselves in our -- and we meet regularly on this project is to be able to talk about developing the threshold to talk about clumps maybe of systems as we go through them to let you know how progress is occurring.
I think it's a very fair question.
We need to kind of give you better clarity going forward.
We'll work on that.
I really appreciate that.
I just have one last question.
It's more of an informational question.
Could you remind us how the Georgia riders work for the environmental spend specifically as it relates to this potential up to 2 or I guess $4.4 billion in Georgia? Is there -- more specifically could there be regulatory lag there? Well they're covered within the 3-year rate hearings that are normally -- that Georgia Power has been going through for the last 4 or 5 processes.
They'll defer them if they're not covered in the last rate case until the next rate case.
So if they're under construction or if they've been approved for construction then they'll collect AFUDC and that will be the normal accounting process.
Okay.
So just so -- if I do understand if there is a fair amount of -- if there isn't [indiscernible] on those because they will have basically come in between interim rate case is that...
Yes and as I said having been CFO at Georgia you'd make an estimate a forward estimate of the 3-year period essentially and then you essentially count your rate base going forward every 3 years and it's an accounting order.
The commission has shown in the past -- has shown a great deal of constructive thought as to how to recognize that over time and we've been reasonably flexible over time.
So there's a contemplation as to what it might be.
To the extent there's a variance there will be an AFUDC accrual there will be a deferral in rate it'll be captured in the next 3-year accounting order.
Recall too that we have never lost $1 of expenditure associated with environmental.
Your next question comes from Leslie Rich with JP Morgan.
Inc.</strong> I just have a quick question on fuel.
So you're running your gas plants more you're running your coal plants less that's got to overtime since it flows through to customers result in some rate decreases.
And I'm just wondering sort of that's a nice tailwind in terms of benefits to customers.
Is that going to be happening? Has it been happening in '11? And do we see a big adjustment there in 2012? Leslie this is Art.
If you look at the balance of unrecovered fuel around the system I guess Georgia's got the biggest balance at $130 million or so $137 million under recovered and to the degree their benefit from increased gas burn that balance will be mitigated sooner than they expected.
So -- but no word yet on when that fuel rate will change for customers.
Mississippi actually they're commission approved a fuel rate reduction this month a few weeks ago that will begin in April I believe about $22 million.
Alabama has under recovered about $31 million so I wouldn't expect anything immediately there and Gulf has actually over recovered about $10 million.
So it just depends on the company and when the -- what the balance is and when the commission will take action on it.
But you know it's so fascinating.
So John Row [ph] and I got into this at one time.
Southern Company benefits by low-energy prices.
It's good for our customers; it's good for our us.
We pass through the benefits of the lowest land [ph] that we can offer.
And to the extent gas prices remain low that is great for us and great for our customers.
Inc.</strong> And then does it have incremental positive benefits for Southern Power? Are those units to the extent that they are not fully hedged can they run more? Yes you bet.
I'd give you – [indiscernible] tag-team there but Southern Power did better than we expected significantly in 2011 as a result of that.
Their energy margins were substantially higher.
And we have designed that company to be gas-fired in the Southeast and so as there are issues relating to retirement of assets in the Southeast and gas becomes a dominant solution the ability for Southern Power to sustain its performance on energy margins and grow more they have a lot of expandability on their site.
We think it plays right into their strike zone.
Yes.
And Leslie if you look at capacity factor of Southern Power's combined-cycle units they were up 10% year-over-year.
And if you look at the capacity factor in the fourth quarter I believe some of them were up in the 70 mid-70 range.
So in 2010 and for the year we were 47% capacity factor.
In '11 we're 57% and if you just want to look at trends in the fourth quarter it was 65%.
Your next question comes from John Ali [ph] with Decade Capital.
Just a couple of quick follow-up questions.
Jonathan Arnold was talking about getting to the bottom end of your growth rate and you said you have to have lower CapEx.
Is that just base CapEx? It'd be lower everything.
I mean however it is it's hard to -- you don't want to ever get in the business of tracing dollars.
If we were substantially lower than what we're projecting so we're projecting $18.4 billion over 3 years.
I mean I don't know what number would have to be to fall out.
We described mild weather.
We described no growth in the economy.
We described less CapEx.
That's kind of how you get there.
Okay great.
And it looks like base CapEx applies around 7% rate base growth? Yes.
Okay.
And Southern Power are they experiencing any pressures from lower commodities or CSAPR delay in '12? Southern Power benefits from lower commodities.
Remember the way we structured their contracts.
We have this very kind of well-developed notion here that risk matters as much as return in creating value.
And so when we thought about at the inception of Southern Power we set up on a set of contracts that served us very well over time.
That is for any contract they enter into it really has 2 segments.
One segment deals with return on brick-and-mortar investment and which is known over time through the length of the contract.
The other deals with largely energy win and largely that's a fuel pass-through to the customers.
So when you think about the economic model of their contract business it was very much like an integrated regulated utility.
Okay? They do have the ability to earn some margins above what we projected in the base case should we sustain this low-commodity environment.
That's what happened in '11.
Got you.
Okay I'm just a little bit I guess not confused but curious why the bottom end of the CAGR dropped if all these things point to at least sticking to what it was in...
Gosh I hope we didn't confused people.
If you go to the original projection we gave you on 5% to 7% it was based off of 2010 and in fact we are exactly there.
We haven't deviated a bit.
When you look now at '12 so just from '10 to '11 to '12 if you use '12 as a new base instead of '10 we are projecting guidance in the top half of that range.
So the math of staying within that range -- so if we're in the top half of the range the top remains 7%.
If you want to go to the bottom side of the range 5% goes to 4% because we're in the top half.
It is exactly where we've been it just uses a different base.
Okay.
So we shouldn't be reading into this if there's any more increment risk than there was...
No not at all.
In fact I would argue there's incremental benefit.
If you go to the slide in the package you have a wonderful picture of what I'm talking about.
Let me just say it a different way.
The math is -- we are exactly where we said we would be way back in 2010 except that because we're starting the top half of that cone of uncertainty we may be in the near term better off.
Your next question comes from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just a clarification.
You mentioned that there could be a change within the published and the final rule.
Could you just elaborate a little bit more on that? See Cross State.
Oh just Cross State? No no no that's the example.
Okay that was the example.
Okay I was thinking...
Well from the time you get a proposed rule to a final rule you think you kind of know where you are.
But from the final rule to the printed rule to the published rule there could be some minor tweaks.
We saw that in CrossSstate.
So I can't sit here and tell you today that what has been put forth as the final rule until it is finally published is going to be in fact the same.
Okay I got you.
But when you say minor changes I mean I know that minor changes can mean big things.
How should we think about I mean in other words I mean are you thinking -- I guess I was just wondering is there a potential chance that this could change a lot or? Well I mean if you ask Energy Future Holdings where Texas became part of the printed rule under Cross State it was major to them it wasn't major to us.
It just depends on what the tweaks might be.
Okay.
But no clarity on that? No no idea what might change between now and the published rule.
Okay I thought there might be something.
And Paul one more thing if I could just add to people.
There is still uncertainty in the final rule.
For example in the startup and shutdown there's all kinds of language in there about standard work practices and a variety of other things.
Really understanding what that means will have some bearing on compliance.
So there still needs to be clarity even though we have a final rule.
Okay.
And then with the -- just to clarify some things here you guys obviously had no customer growth I mean flat customer growth last year.
Is that right? Nobody no increase in customers at all? Correct.
It was marginally negative I think...
And this was...
And you can write that off to storms and stuff.
Okay.
That's a good -- okay.
So in other words you had storms that knocked people out I guess is that what you mean? Yes yes.
If you recall the tornadoes that went through Tuscaloosa that was a big deal.
And I think one of the dynamics in housing that we're looking for a normal unsold housing inventory in our area would be around 2% 3% 2% 4%.
We're kind of 3.5% right now in the Southeast.
So what we got to do is make sure that we eat into that inventory over time.
Okay in terms of what occupied houses is that what you mean? Yes.
Okay.
So we're not like -- you're not concerned about a housing price rebalance.
We're not talking anything like that? No no no.
Okay.
I just want to make sure.
And when you say 15 000 14 000 15 000 customers I'd assume this is pretty much residential customers.
Is that what we're talking about here? Oh yes.
Okay and what is that as a percentage of just -- of a growth rate? What would that equate to? So if usage is flat it's going to be like I'm looking around the table 1% maybe.
So it's got 1% customer growth...
Let us get back to you on that.
Let's get back to you on that.
Okay.
I mean what I'm sort of just trying to figure out here is that basically if I understand you guys you guys are basically looking at 2.5% growth rate in your service territory in the Southeast in general is that right? And that's equating into about 1.3% retail sales growth rate is that sort of roughly how we should think about this? Say that again? I'm sorry.
You got 1.3% growth and you mentioned that you were using I guess of an algorithm that basically came up to 50% GDP growth equals that right? So I'm just saying so you're basically using like a 2.5% a little more than that for what you're expecting will happen in GDP is that right? That is exactly right.
Correct.
Okay.
And -- okay.
And the growth in customers is 0.4%.
Okay.
Customer growth is 0.4% that you guys expect.
Yes.
And so really what you're expecting is a rebound in usage and that's being driven by people feeling better about the economy is that how we should think about that? Well if that...
Leaving industrial customers out I mean...
Yes yes.
It's people moving out of apartments into homes.
So usage goes ways up but that's really just a factor of more homes getting occupied.
Your next question comes from Gordon Howald with Doyle Trading Consulting.
This has been kind of touched upon but I'm going to ask you maybe in a little bit of a different way looking for different answer.
I recognize all the uncertainty surrounding what the final regulatory EPA rules will be and what natural gas and power prices will ultimately be.
But could you provide some color on the EPA-related CapEx? What could the financial impact be on customer bills for that incremental $4.4 billion number that you put out there on a percentage basis less than 15% greater than 15% any color on that? Yes we've been pretty consistent with this and I'm sorry I'm going to be a little vague just because we don't know yet it depends on what state you're in and all that.
But what we have said is that after all of these expenditures cleared in service you're talking about 10% to 20% across the United States depending on where you live.
Right.
That's fair.
And could you give me a little color on what the base environmental spending is over the next 3 years? Yes we'll get you that in a sec.
And when I gave you that 10% to 20% remember I go back to something I said earlier.
It's always hard to point out one rule.
You really have to look at the consequence of all rules and the change in your generation and transmission expansion plans and the whole bit.
All of that has to be taken into account.
Absolutely.
Okay Art? Well the base environmental is on this slide I believe and it's about $1.5 billion over the next 3 years.
But it would include the completion of projects that are under construction now.
I believe a lot of those are in Georgia and some in Mississippi as well.
So essentially spending that you would have done irregardless of -- that you would have done even without EPA proposed regulations such as CSAPR which has obviously been stayed and just things that you would have done anyway? Correct.
Your next question comes from Ashar Khan with Visium.
Can I ask a slightly different question? Can you just tell us what the rate base growth is from '12 to '14? Well it’s 7% to 8%.
7% to 8%.
Per year but it's lumpy.
And it's lumpy.
So in the 2 years from '12 to '14 on -- it grows by if I can just say like 15% is that correct from '12 to '14? Yes.
I mean if you just do 7% to 8% per year and it's a little lumpy.
So yes.
Round numbers you're right.
Okay.
And that includes the environmental? Or that doesn't include the environmental that number? It does not.
The environmental will be incremental with that.
Okay.
So the environmental if I'm right if you include then the higher end then how much does it become? So there's -- I don't know.
It would clear after in service.
So a lot of the environmental will clear in service after '14.
So we'll be having AFUDC and a variety of other things.
But in terms of rate base growth which is a different question that will clear when it goes into service.
So a lot of that would be after '14.
Okay.
But you would get AFUDC positive impact right? Yes yes yes.
So then Tom what then is I guess because we are cash flow deficient so I guess we can use a rule that we are losing like 2% or 3% of that growth in the earnings because of being a cash flow negative company is that correct? Is that the way we should kind of like think through this thing going forward? Well I wouldn't think about it that way.
I mean let's -- at a practical matter when you look at Southern Company you go operating cash less dividends you look at CapEx we kind of look cash flow negative but that's because we're growing.
We're getting AFU -- I mean we getting CWIP on Vogtle.
We're getting CWIP on Kemper County Plant Ratcliffe.
So either it's been contemplated in a forward mechanism so that would be Georgia or in Alabama and in Mississippi we have annual mechanisms which capture this stuff and those are forward-looking.
So it depends on what jurisdiction you're talking about.
But they generally self-regulate.
In other words to the extent you spend more in Alabama the next series of RSE would pick it up.
So -- what I'm trying to get from is that if you take the average growth rate there's a discrepancy between rate base growth and the EPS growth.
What would you attribute that to? Are you -- some are producing as regulatory lag is that what you're saying? I'm just trying to get a more precise way to -- what are the reasons between the 2% to 3% difference between the 2? Well as you grow assets you're going to grow some O&amp;M and you're also going to have shares involved right? More shares supporting it that drags down -- the relationship between adding assets to rate base is always a function of how much more O&amp;M do you have you have more depreciation as a result of more assets but you have more shares supporting the mix of capital supporting every dollar of investment.
So you can't just say that a 9% rate base growth equates to 9% EPS.
Okay.
So basically it's a function of -- it's really that your -- as the rate base is growing are ROEs on that rate base actually earned ROEs are declining over that period of time? No no no.
It's not earned ROEs.
It's the revenue requirement calculation on any investment.
That really is constant.
So if you -- go ahead Art.
The forward-looking rate mechanism address a lot of that.
As it goes into rate base it's either -- it's picked up by rate mechanisms and it's earned upon.
Yes there's no we're not missing anything anywhere.
In fact if you think about it if you contemplate Georgia's structure as a 3-year forward look when it's put into place so it renews itself every 3 years to the extent you miss your projection it's deferred and you earn AFUDC on it.
Alabama is forward-looking and adjusts annually [indiscernible] is forward-looking and adjusts annually.
I guess the only other one you would think about is Gulf Gulf's in the middle of a rate case.
No I understand that.
I'm just thinking through it.
Tom I guess EIX says they can grow earnings equal to rate base.
I guess they don't do any equity and they haven't done equity for 14 to 10 years I don't know how long.
Con Ed can't do it because they have to do equity.
So I'm thinking if Southern is getting bigger and bigger and the CapEx needs are becoming bigger and bigger I guess the ability to be able to grow earnings equal to rate base is now becoming more difficult because of the larger CapEx that is kind of like coming in because we have to issue equity to kind of finance it and I'm just trying to think through the paradigm.
Yes Ashar it hasn't changed.
This has been the relationship at Southern.
Go back and look at our rate base growth over time we'll be glad to kind of take you off-line and go through the numbers.
But our rate base growth has always exceeded our earnings per share growth for a variety reasons that we talked about depreciation shares a variety of other things other than that.
We'll be glad to take you through that.
There's nothing changing in Southern.
This is a constant relationship.
Your next question comes from Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Could you have alternatively recast your growth rate by keeping it on a 2010 base but saying 6% to 7% off of that base? Would that have been the same in the same situation...
Yes what we would have said is 5% to 7%.
You're reflecting the fact that we're in the top half of that range.
I mean conceivably you could go there but we're conservative.
We like to have enough spread to accommodate a challenged economy worries about Europe a variety of other things.
But yes I mean you're catching the point.
If you start with '10 we are at 5% to 7%.
And we're in the top half that's where you come up with 6% to 7%.
All we're trying to do is just use a more recent base.
Yes we just recharacterized the same growth.
The math is the same.
We're not guiding down on growth.
Research Division</strong> You caught people by surprise the way you cast it.
And at this time there are no further questions.
Sir are there any closing remarks? No we just want to thank everybody.
I know this was a long call but we always respect the fact that you guys are interested enough to call in and listen to our story and we thank you for your interest.
And hopefully you found the time valuable.
I know we did.
Thanks very much.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the Southern Company Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Sarah and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to be Southern Company First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dan Tucker Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Planning.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Sarah.
Welcome everyone to Southern Company's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
Joining me this afternoon are Tom Fanning Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Company; and Art Beattie Chief Financial Officer.
Let me remind you that we will make forward-looking statements today in addition to providing historical information.
There are various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements including those discussed in our Forms 10-K and subsequent filings.
We'll also be including slides as part of today's conference call.
These slides provide details on the information that will be discussed on this call and you can access the slides on our Investor Relations website at www.southerncompany.com if you want to follow along during the presentation.
Now at this time I'll turn the call over to Tom Fanning Southern Company's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Thanks Dan.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
Before we turn to Art for a review our first quarter performance I'd like to take a few moments to update you on our recent progress on several important strategic fronts.
On February 10 we received the combined construction and operating licenses for Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 the first new nuclear units licensed in the United States in more than 30 years.
Our nuclear development team has done an exemplary job in satisfying the requirements for these licenses and I have every confidence that they will continue to provide strong leadership as the project moves forward.
We are making significant progress at Vogtle 3 and 4 as those of you following along on the slides can see.
Work is already underway on the Nuclear Islands and cooling tower and our heavy-lift derrick one of the largest in the world is being assembled.
With the new licenses in hand we have made a smooth transition into the next phase of the project and I look forward to sharing further updates with you in the future.
Meanwhile the state regulatory process for Vogtle 3 and 4 continues to move forward in a constructive manner.
The Georgia Public Service Commission has improved $1.7 billion of project costs through June 30 2011 and is currently reviewing the company's sixth semiannual construction monitoring report which reflect an additional $300 million of cost through December 2011.
In testimonies filed with the commission Georgia Power has outlined up to $2 billion of potential additional benefits related to Vogtle 3 and 4 that we believe further enhance the value of this project for our customers.
The commission's decision in this proceeding is expected in mid-August.
With any project of this magnitude and length commercial disputes are to be expected.
Discussions between the owners and the consortium are ongoing regarding a number of matters including issues related to the timing of the receipt of the design control document or DCD and the combined operating licenses or COLs.
As you may be aware the construction of Vogtle 3 and 4 will proceed under a new licensing framework that is significantly different from the one used previously.
In the past nuclear plant operators designed and built their units first and then sought licensing approval for what they had already built.
Under the new process the nuclear units are constructed according to the COLs and the underlying DCD.
There are processes in place to assure compliance with the design requirements specified in the DCD and the COLs.
One process we have discussed with you before is ITAAC which stands for inspections tests analyses and acceptance criteria.
An additional oversight process is rigorous inspection by Southern Nuclear and the NRC that occurs throughout constructions.
As an example of this process a recent routine NRC inspection revealed that limited details of the rebar construction in the Unit 3 Nuclear Island were not consistent with the DCD.
We expect to receive official notice of this finding from the NRC.
In the meantime we are engaged in constructive discussions with the consortium to identify appropriate action.
We can reasonably expect to encounter additional inspection issues between now and the time the new units are completed as they are a normal part of the nuclear construction process.
Our goal is always the same: to build the safest most reliable and most cost-effective nuclear generating units possible and to achieve our targets with regard to schedule and cost to customers.
Elsewhere on April 24 the Mississippi Public Service Commission finalized a new certificate of public convenience and necessity for the Plant Ratcliffe in Kemper County Mississippi.
This became necessary after the Mississippi Supreme Court's recent reversal of the commission's previous order.
In the interim construction continued on the Kemper County site under a temporary authorization granted by the PSC on March 30 and will now proceed under the authority of the new permanent order.
Initial startup and testing are now only 14 months away and we remain confident that this project will provide the best value to customers over the long term.
Targets remain achievable for both the Vogtle and Kemper County projects with regard to construction schedule and cost to customers.
As important as these projects are they are only part of our all in "arrows in the quiver" strategy for building a 21st century energy portfolio.
Georgia Power is making significant progress on 3 new combined-cycle natural gas units at Plant McDonough.
The first of these units came online in December and with a nameplate capacity of 840 megawatts and has actually been generating at significantly higher levels with an extremely efficient heat rate.
The second unit is scheduled to begin operation later this month with the third unit expected to follow in November.
Southern Power is also nearing completion of the nation's largest biomass generation facility near Nacogdoches Texas.
This project which is scheduled to begin commercial operation in June will provide needed power for the city of Austin through a 20-year contract.
These projects are consistent with our ongoing commitment to maintain a diverse and balanced generation portfolio thereby enabling customers to benefit from the best available combination of low energy costs and system reliability.
During our last earnings call we reported that our energy mix in the fourth quarter of 2011 was about 40% natural gas and 40% coal with the rest coming from our lowest cost resources nuclear and hydro.
Compare that to 2007 where the mix was only 16% natural gas and 70% coal.
As natural gas prices have remained low relative to other fossil sources we have seen these fourth quarter trends continue.
We now project that our mix for the full year of 2012 will be 47% natural gas and only 35% coal.
Given the high level of interest in this topic across our industry here is a quick summary of what we're seeing here at Southern Company.
During the first quarter of 2012 our natural gas combined cycle fleet achieved an average capacity factor of 70%.
Based on today's forward curves we estimate we could burn more than 600 Bcf for the full year 2012 or about 1.7 Bcf per day almost 3x what we burned in 2007 when natural gas was only 16% of our generation mix.
Southern Company's gas purchases now account for more than 2% of all United States natural gas consumption making us the third-largest user of natural gas among United States utilities.
Even with natural gas prices below our forecast for 2012 we are well-positioned for managing coal inventories and passing lower energy costs on to customers.
To accomplish this we've taken several proactive steps which include increasing our ability to match coal purchases and burn through reduced volumes of contracted coal maximizing and expanding on-site and off-site storage working with our coal suppliers to defer buy out or renegotiate existing contracts and conducting managed burns when necessary.
Our current expectation is that we will burn less than 45 million tons of coal in 2012 compared to the nearly 80 million tons we've burned at our peak in 2007.
That said we continue to maintain our operational flexibility to increase our use of coal in the event of a sharp reversal in the price of natural gas.
There remains excellent optionality in our generation fleet.
As an illustration by 2020 assuming a scenario of low natural gas prices and relatively high coal prices our energy mix could be 57% gas and 22% coal.
If fuel prices change to a high-gas low-coal environment the energy mix could be 34% gas and 45% coal.
Under all scenarios nuclear would remain in the 16% to 17% range.
This level of flexibility will continue to be an important part of our operational planning philosophy going forward.
As always our ultimate goal is to benefit customers and here we continue to succeed.
As an example earlier this year Georgia Power filed a request to lower fuel rates.
As proposed this would reduce average fuel prices by 19% and average residential retail prices by 6%.
We think achievements of this sort are the very best validation of our business model that everything we do is based on providing the best value for customers served by our operating system.
I'd like to turn now to Art Beattie for a discussion of our financial highlights for this quarter as well as an update on first quarter sales the economic outlook for our region and our earnings estimates for the second quarter.
Thanks Tom.
In the first quarter of 2012 we've reported earnings of $0.42 per share compared with $0.50 a share in the first quarter of 2011 a decrease of $0.08 a share.
Let's turn now to the major factors that drove our numbers for the first quarter of 2012 compared to the first quarter of 2011.
First the negative factors.
Weather effects reduced our earnings by $0.08 a share during the first quarter of 2012 compared with the first quarter of 2011.
Weather was actually $0.06 a share below normal in the first quarter of 2012 compared with $0.02 a share above normal in the first quarter of 2011.
Increases in non-fuel O&amp;M expense for our traditional operating companies decreased our earnings by $0.01 a share in the first quarter of 2012 compared with the first quarter of 2011.
Increased depreciation and amortization representative of our growing rate base reduced our earnings by $0.02 a share during the first quarter of 2012 compared with the first quarter of 2011.
The expiration of long-term capacity contracts for Southern Power reduced earnings by $0.01 a share during the first quarter of 2012 compared with the first quarter of 2011.
Finally an increase in the number of shares outstanding reduced our earnings by $0.01 a share during the first quarter of 2012 compared with the first quarter of 2011.
Retail revenue effects in our traditional business were a positive factor adding a total of $0.05 a share to our earnings for the first quarter of 2012 compared with the first quarter of 2011.
In conclusion we had $0.13 of negative items compared with $0.05 of positive items for a negative change of $0.08 a share.
Moving now to a discussion of our first quarter sales and the economic outlook for the remainder of 2012.
Sales growth was driven by the continued recovery of industrial sales which grew by 1.9% in the first quarter of 2012 compared with the first quarter of 2011.
Industrial sales were 97% of pre-recession levels for the quarter and 99% for the month of March.
This growth was led by pipelines up 8.3%; transportation up 7.3%; primary metals up 7%; and chemicals up 2%.
In our territory manufacturing job growth outpaced overall job growth in the first quarter of 2012.
Unemployment rates in the region have fallen to an average of less than 9% and the level of confidence in our current outlook has been strengthened.
The growth in jobs likely contributed to the addition of some 15 000 new residential customers in the first quarter of 2012 a significant increase over the 2 000 customers added during the first quarter of 2011.
This growth was the largest such gain in customers since the first quarter of 2009 and was broad-based meaning that each of our traditional operating companies experienced growth.
Reflecting some of the improvements in customer growth residential sales growth grew by 0.6% for the first quarter of 2012 compared with the first quarter of 2011 on a weather-adjusted basis.
Commercial sales declined by 1.3% in the first quarter of 2012 compared with the first quarter of 2011 also on a weather-adjusted basis.
Meanwhile new economic development activity announced in the first quarter of 2012 is expected to bring another 5 000 jobs to our region which would be a 36% increase over the same period a year ago and another $1 billion of capital investment a 52% increase over the same period a year ago.
Chief among these was the announcement of a new Caterpillar manufacturing facility that will bring 1 400 new jobs to Georgia.
More recently Baxter International announced that it will create more than 1 500 jobs with a new production center outside Atlanta.
Before I discuss our earnings estimate for the second quarter of 2012 I would like to update you on one other financial item.
Earlier this month we announced an increase of 3.7% in our dividend thereby increasing the annual dividend rate to $1.96 per share.
This marks the 11th consecutive year that we have raised our dividend.
Over the past decade fewer than 10% of S&amp;P 500 companies have raised their dividend more than 2% each year and during that time Southern Company raised its dividend an average of 3.5% per year.
We also delivered an average annual total shareholder return of more than 11% with a low level of relative risk to the market.
We are particularly pleased that our continued focus on providing superior value to our customers has enabled us to provide sustained value to our shareholders.
Now I'd like to move to a discussion of our earnings estimate for the second quarter of 2012.
Our earnings estimate for the second quarter of 2012 is $0.65 per share.
As a reminder during our January earnings call we shared that annual guidance for the year 2012 was $2.58 to $2.70 per share.
Now I'd like to hand it back over to Tom for his closing remarks.
Thanks Art.
In closing I'd like to take a moment to address an emerging issue that has direct implications for American investors: the tax treatment of dividends and capital gains on investments.
Historically dividends have played a pivotal role in the financial well-being of American investors.
In fact over the last 80 years dividends have driven nearly half of the value of the S&amp;P 500.
If you look at just the last 30 years dividends account for nearly 60% of the index's total returns.
And over the last 3 years dividend income has represented nearly 18% of all personal income growth in the United States.
Over time dividends have provided an important source of investment income for American investors older investors in particular.
And with baby boomers retiring in ever-increasing numbers it is reasonable to expect that the need for that income will only expand in the coming years.
Our position is clear.
First we believe that the tax treatment of dividends and capital gains should be linked.
Second to encourage capital formation and therefore capital expenditures and as a result growth in jobs and the incomes of Americans these tax rates should remain low.
This is an issue that we are following closely and we'll continue to do so in the months ahead.
As always we will engage constructively with our elected government representatives seeking an outcome that preserves the ability of dividends to continue to fuel our country's economic engine and ensure a stable financial future for its citizens.
At this point we are ready to take your questions.
So operator we'll now take the first question.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Daniel Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just real quick make sure I understood the 2012 guidance comment.
You guys are reaffirming 2012 guidance as you provided on the fourth quarter call and you're comfortable with that number still.
I didn't misunderstand that.
We only give guidance once a year and we give it in January and then we re-address it at the end of the summer peak season in October.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
With your O&amp;M you had flexibility the last 2 years of good weather to I guess for lack of a better word bank a little bit of O&amp;M.
O&amp;M was up in the quarter year on year even with the volumes down.
Are you guys looking for opportunities to help manage O&amp;M over the course of this year to stay in line with that guidance span? Sure.
It's what we always do.
When I looked at the weather this quarter and I looked at our O&amp;M and I'll let Art comment on this later.
But we feel completely confident of our financial plan.
No reason to get exercise at all about what we did in the first quarter.
Remember most of our net income comes in the third quarter and as a result that's really the time in which to exercise the flexible portion of our operating budgets.
That's exactly right Tom.
And just to give you a little more color on the first quarter we actually did understand what we expected to spend on the nonfuel O&amp;M side.
But on a year-over-year basis it was a bit more and a lot of that was related to pension and other employee benefits.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I guess Tom with gas prices low and coal prices showing a little more resilience and the mix you guys are seeing from a dispatch perspective are you rethinking in the environmental CapEx plans you guys have laid out in the sense of maybe pivoting more away from some of the upgrades on the coal plants just because it's harder to justify them against some of the gas options today? Not really although it's a very interesting kind of question.
As we've looked at the variety of variables that go into our decision-making process with how to comply with HAPs MACT or Cross State or CO2 or anything else 316B ethylene standards you name it we go through kind of a probability-weighted analysis and try and look at the kind of range of outcomes that could potentially impact our customers.
And ultimately I think what we see is the path that we have chosen or are choosing currently and it'll be final probably by the July call maybe.
We think that our plans are driven more by the timing of the regulations rather than necessarily any change in the short-term fuel markets.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Could I just ask in your discussion of coal and gas you talked about working number of different options on contracts and then some forced burn and some deferral.
Can you give us a sense of is most of what you're doing deferring? Is it sort of equal amount of all of the different ways of managing the coal contracts? Or do you have any kind of sense of what's the most fruitful area for you? Well it's a mixture of all and if you look at the word we put them in it's is really driven by the economics.
To the degree we can find additional external storage and internal storage of coal we'll certainly do that first.
We'll work with our coal companies to try to find optionality in the contracts or opt out of tons.
That would probably be our next choice and the last choice would be burning the coal in a planned burned gap or planned burned sense.
And the sense of it is right now the planned burn is exceedingly minor in terms of kind of the overall fuel cost to customers at this point.
We think it's like less than 1%.
And the other thing that really impacts us here we started working on the switching strategies very early last year and even before because we could see kind of the clouds on the horizon with respect to HAPs MACT and what that might mean to marginal units.
And given that we saw then at least a 2015 time frame we started taking actions not only on our coal contracts but also on our railroad contracts.
And we think we have a very orderly process in place in which to accommodate the optimum fuel results for our customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay and can you frame -- you gave us a sort of benchmark of tonnage in 2007 and tonnage in '12.
How does this -- can you just remind us how many tons of coal you burned in '11? How '12 is going to look versus '11? 56 million tons.
Research Division</strong> So 56 million goes to 45 million on that year-over-year basis.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then if I can just ask one other thing.
When you give your growth numbers the weather-adjusted are you making a leap year adjustment in there as well? Or is that just kind of 1 extra day versus 1 less day last year gross? I'll tell you a funny story.
Actually we didn't adjust it but some years ago we talked about leap year being an explanation as to an earnings variance.
And I made some goofy story about a crazy earnings call.
We left that out this time.
Research Division</strong> So we've kind of -- underlying is probably 1% or so less than what you showed.
1% yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Can you just talk about some of the drivers you're seeing in the second quarter relative to the second quarter of '11? Yes the second quarter of '11 you might remember we had $0.07 of weather positive weather last year.
So you take that off and we would've been at $0.64 adjusting for nothing else in that result.
So the drivers this year would be some revenue effects from new rates and various of our operating companies across the system and expectations around load growth.
Research Division</strong> Is that $0.07 versus normal? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Angie Storozynski with Macquarie Capital.
I have a couple of questions.
First of all the load growth.
You mentioned a couple of the big industrial projects that are going to bring jobs into your region.
I wanted to know about the timeline exactly when those jobs are coming.
And I also wonder I understand that you have some O&amp;M flexibility but you're going against a pretty significant negative versus your guidance.
You're assuming 1.3% year-over-year load growth for now.
The weather and then underlying growth are going against you.
I mean could you also tell us basically should we basically assume that's it's a lower number in general? I mean is the economy growing at a slower pace than what you have originally assumed? Let me get the last one first.
I'm going to hand it over to Art for the economic development stuff.
What's interesting about our earnings profile as we were driving through our preparation for the call one of the things we noticed in our financial plans for this year especially if you consider the pace of capital investment so we're spending around $6 billion a year $18 billion if you add it all up over the 3-year period and how we're earning CWIP on Vogtle and Kemper County.
The seasonality of our earnings is becoming more back-end loaded.
So what you see is what you all should expect is more back-end loading of our earnings performance.
So you kind of have a momentum that builds as we have more invested capital throughout the year.
So I would kind of caution you with that one.
The second one is we are completely confident that we have the flexibility giving normal variances of weather to do what we need to do in order to achieve our targets.
With respect to economic development let me turn that back over to Art.
Yes Angie you had asked about Caterpillar and the dates around that.
2013 that's expected to be complete and started and the Baxter Labs is going to be a little bit longer in its runway.
It's going to be about 2018 before you get to that 1 500 job scenario.
Okay.
And second question is about -- you mentioned in your prepared remarks about the issues with the rebar and CDC [ph].
Should we expect that it's going to have any impact on the delays for instance construction works? So what we said before is our belief is that all targets are achievable with respect to schedule and cost of customers.
The thing I just want to point out is you will and what we're trying to is get people used to the idea that as we proceed through this complex long-term expensive project you will hear about lots of things.
This one we highlighted this quarter is just another one of what we believe will be many.
And in fact there's already been several license modification applications made.
So we're just trying to get everybody used to the idea that these things will occur over time.
With respect -- if in the future we ever decide to readdress schedule or cost or whatever we do that in conjunction with our PSC.
We have an ongoing relationship and it's been a very constructive relationship today.
I have no reason to believe it wouldn't be in the future.
And the last question what's the heat rate of the new plants Plant McDonough? The first unit has been operating beautifully.
In fact it's nameplate rating 840.
We hit a number like 960 at one point.
Now you can't count on that all the time.
Remember it operates more efficiently during cold weather which is what it did.
And its heat rate was around 6 500.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Chin with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I hate to beat a dead horse on this but with the $0.66 guidance for 2Q so does that incorporate the weather as we've seen it up to this point in 2Q? Or is that assuming a normalized weather pattern for 2Q ? It assumes normal weather Brian.
You can try to make some judgments on weather but you got very little bit of the quarter in there.
And my admonitions are all of our people who have input into that is let's assume that we're going to be normal for the quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> A quick question on a couple of just timing issues.
With the DOE loans that you expect to start for Vogtle and Kemper this year could you just give me an update on when you expect those to sort of be finalized or where you are in the process? And then second quick question when does the quip [ph] start to show up from Ratcliffe? Has that already started in the first quarter? So I'll hit the loan guarantees and I'll let...
The quip [ph] has begun in Mississippi.
Well are you talking about cash collection of the financing cost? Is that what you're referring to Mark? Research Division</strong> Yes.
No that has not begun.
There has been a request for that to the Mississippi Public Service Commission but that has been preempted time-wise by the other issue that they've addressed around the certification order.
So the time line is probably going to be midyear or so.
It's good we got the order out.
That was a good thing to get behind us.
With respect to this loan guarantee thing remember we got our conditional loan guarantee with the DOE I don't know some 2 years ago now and there were a few ends to tie up before we thought we can make the first draw.
We still remain hopeful that we'll have loan guarantees.
But as a matter of course really since Cylindra [ph] and reasonably recently the DOE has proposed some new conditions that really relate to we believe more project finance conditions rather than a corporate credit which is underlying the obligation to repay the loan guarantee that we have.
We're working through those issues and we're very hopeful that we'll be able to reach a successful conclusion.
But rest assured we will always act in our customers' interest.
And when they ask us to do something that's not in our customers' interest we won't go forward.
I must say that the value that we are bringing to customers since certification has been rather extraordinary in my view and we'll be successful whether we have them or not.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to be clear on the remarks you've made particularly as you've looked at the full year if I'm hearing you right obviously when you initiated the guidance back in beginning of the year you wanted to assume normal weather and you highlighted how weather has played out.
So in terms of your offsets should we really look at that nonfuel O&amp;M as being the largest tool available for you to work against this unseasonably mild weather? Are there other tools or other offsets that you're seeing that could also be positive incrementally? Ali we've done this before on other calls but that's obviously the biggest one and what we've talked about in depth before is the notion that we have a dynamic budgeting system.
We essentially have some projects that are approved and funded.
We have other projects that are approved and unfunded.
So if we get better-than-expected weather we can do more stuff than we thought we would.
And we always have the ability to cut back if things don't work out well.
And over time and I'm talking like over a decade now this has worked exceedingly well.
To wit look at our reliability numbers that lead the industry on so many different fronts.
So we've been able to provide for the care of our assets for the benefit of our customers in a very effective way.
Given the periodicity of our earnings you should expect that the flexibility the optionality within the nonfuel O&amp;M regime will occur once we see what the kind of summer revenues will bring.
So we're not going to exercise a lot of flexibility and optionality in O&amp;M right now.
We're going to wait until we see a little more income and then we'll be able to respond as we need to.
And we're completely confident of our ability to continue to do that.
Let me also turn to Art here.
Ali one additional thing to think about is last 2 years 2010 2011 we've had better-than-normal weather.
And we've been able to use that to in some degree to do some things.
"Fix the roof while the sun's out " is Tom's favorite phrase.
So we've been able to do some things and we think gives us a bit more flexibility going into '12 than maybe a normal year would have.
So yes we still have flexibility and time available to utilize it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Second question Tom coming back to the EPS is it fair to say that the rules particularly on math [ph] as they've laid out are now pretty much set and you and others are working around that? Or are you still thinking there will be significant changes to the time line to the rules? And as far as the CSAPR rule is concerned obviously you're in front of the coach but are you assuming it's back to square one there? Just an update on your current thoughts on the EPA rules.
Well so remember when we think about the rules and our compliance we've got to consider the whole succession of EPA proposals some of which are out there some of which are still in the offing.
That's HAPs MACT and it's 316b and its ethylene and it's co-combustion byproducts and it's Cross State and it's ozone and everything else CO2.
Look what we do is represent the interest of our customers as effectively as we can.
We think we are uniquely qualified to do that given that we are the only company in our industry with a deep proprietary research and development effort and we think we were particularly effective in the HAPs MACT rule.
If you recall there are 11 issues that we were largely responsible for calling out one of which related to schedule.
The other 10 were of a technical nature.
We believe that we got some accommodation on some of the 10 issues.
That has given rise to as Art has talked to you before about a variance in the capital budget.
With respect to HAPs MACT we kind of estimated what up to $2.7 billion over the 3-year period and we have suggested that as a result of the final rule that we may spend somewhere between $0.5 billion to $1 billion less depending on the number of bag houses the extent to which we'll have to expand transmission systems gas pipelines and a variety of other issues.
We still need more flexibility with respect to schedule.
And so what you have seen is either us or people of a like mind continuing to effort a change to the HAPs MACT rule all again to benefit cost and reliability.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question can you remind us Art what's the expected equity incremental equity that you've planned for 2012? Yes we've outlined I think last call $400 million this year maybe up to $500 million next year and about $1 billion in 2014.
If we look at the first quarter we raised about $115 million.
So that $400 million will seem to be right in line with our expectations for the year.
Now those amounts could be less if we decide from the MATS perspective that we spend less money in the compliance side of that equation.
So just keep that in mind.
If MATS is $500 million to $1 billion less we would spend something like 45% to 50% in that less in equity.
Your next question comes from the line of Marc de Croisset with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> How many days of coal burn you have in inventory at the moment? And could you give us color on how that's trended since the beginning of the year? About 60 and it's about what we expected.
So what you see typically in terms of coal inventory at Southern would be a trending up going into the peak season and then drawing down through the summer.
That's what you would normally expect to see.
Research Division</strong> And back in September '09 when you were hitting very high levels of inventory were you slightly above 70 days in that period? It depends on the plant and really the physical dimensions of the coal pile.
Really what you get into there is the physical limitations driving your need to enter into a planned burn program.
We are way less on any plan for a planned burn program this year than we have in the past.
Particularly we've taken all the proactive steps that we mentioned earlier.
Research Division</strong> Terrific.
And generally you've got a lot of fuel flexibility and that's played itself out over the years.
Other than just having gas capacity around what is it about your system that has made that possible? I have this expression since I've come on is honor the past and build for the future.
And I would go back to probably the timing which Allen Franklin was running the Traditional Utilities.
This is actually before he became CEO.
He was COO and ran all the Alabama Georgia Gulf and Mississippi.
At that time we decided to balance our portfolio away from coal to gas.
And at that time you may remember there was this notion that boy if you could get some CTs you could make a lot of money all over the place.
Interestingly the way the market evolved during the '90s we found it to be a much more kind of long-term play.
CTs were way more expensive on a unit basis relative to kind of the value including the option value that we saw in combined cycles.
So what we did instead of arraying a bunch of combustion turbines all across the system we tended to buy the more energy-intensive machines and it has worked so well to our benefit today.
Research Division</strong> But the CTs are not what's lighting up now.
Or am I mistaken? That's my point.
We bought a lot more CCs [ph] not CTs and therefore we have the excess capacity factor capability that's really worked to our benefit.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Actually a couple of questions a little bit unrelated to each other.
First could you comment about what you're seeing in small commercial demand? I mean a pretty big discrepancy between what you're seeing in residential what you're seeing in industrial and small commercial.
That's first.
Second Southern Power I would expect for the portion of Southern Power that's uncontracted 20% or so you'd actually be benefiting substantially from some of the coal to gas switching that's happening in the Southeast.
Surprised just a little bit at kind of year-over-year decline at Southern Power in the first quarter just due to the commodity price.
And third could you give a little bit more insight at Vogtle the rebar-related issue? I don't know kind of dive in a little further about what's happening what did the NRC see what does that really mean? Michael this is Art.
I'll go after the commercial questions.
Commercial always lags growth from the residential side.
So to the degree we start seeing growth in residential you'll begin to see at some point growth in commercial as well.
You asked about small retail and there was an article in the Atlanta paper a week or so ago that talked about the resurgence of small retail.
And beginning to see space in retail shopping centers being occupied more so than they had been in the past.
So it's beginning to bottom out I would say.
We do have some other trivia about tourism and the coast is way up over where it was in the past and that a lot of that is on the commercial end of the equation.
Let me jump in.
This is pretty interesting stuff.
So it's a lagging indicator just as Art said and in fact the number that you would point to would be office vacancies are kind of like 20% where they would normally be 15%.
So they are in fact lagging.
But a really interesting leading indicator if you will in commercial is that sales tax collections are up 5.8% year-over-year.
What that tells you is that the velocity of purchases coming through things like Wal-marts and Costcos and a variety of other things are increasing.
That's also a function of improved job situation.
Personal income is up 4.0% for the Southeast.
So you're seeing a decent leading indicator even inside of a negative lagging indicator.
This all kind of fits together and we think has a reasonably bullish story for the future.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay then the other 2 items.
Southern Power? You're right.
We do have some more uncovered this year as we've had some contracts roll off in the first quarter of this year.
And uncovered margins have increased but they haven't offset the loss of the capacity revenues or the energy margins produced by those units that were under contract say a year ago because volumes had just been down.
Load is down across the board and the opportunity to sell those units into the market just hasn't been as great as they were say a year ago.
I mean some of the weather effect again.
And the last thing was Vogtle the rebar situation.
What did you want on that? Research Division</strong> Just a little bit more detail what was it that the NRC saw during the inspection? Is it something that's a short-term fix; meaning contractor comes in.
It takes couple of days to fix it.
Is it something that could balloon into a larger-term longer-term item? Just whatever detail you can provide Tom.
So it deals with a very limited part of the rebar structure only in Unit 3 and it deals with the configuration of the rebar as it meets the wall structure.
It's that finite detail and it has to deal with does it terminate directly into the wall or does it turn up.
There is a solution that we're working through.
I don't want to jump ahead of the NRC kind of finally ruling in on this.
But all I can say is it's not going to be anything that in my opinion materially impacts any of the schedule or materially impacts any of the cost.
And otherwise it's just this limited part of the rebar in Unit 3.
For example the steam turbine island and the rest of the rebar and everything else continues elsewhere.
So it's not like there's a giant work stoppage on the site.
It's just with respect to a limited part of the structure.
But Mike the point is these things will happen and what we're trying to convey to everybody is these things will happen you'll hear about them.
Certainly if there's a material impact we will certainly let people know.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I'm just wondering as you guys think about this incredibly dynamic energy market that we're in with how gas has moved versus coal and different types of coal have moved versus each other and you look at the spending you did.
I know you've kind of answered a bunch of questions that relate to this.
But when you look at your overall capital spending plan over the next several years I mean do you still feel like the aggregate of what you will be compelled to spend to provide reliable service to customers still puts you firmly in sort of a capital intensity level that corroborates your earnings growth expectations? I mean how do we think about how capital is going to move from coal to gas no longer need to spend on environmental.
Maybe there's incremental spending on pipeline infrastructure.
And how does this all coalesce? Do you guys feel comfortable that you've got the same earnings growth prospects that you had 2 years ago? Well that's a heck of a question.
You know what here's what I'd say.
We're very confident in our 3-year projection which is what we're about.
You're asking kind of the broader question what does it look like.
Let me give you an estimate at optionality in 2020.
And if natural gas could move from as low as 34 to its high as 57 with coal being as low as 22 and as high as 45 we see nuclear and hydro and other perhaps renewables and other things being around 21.
What you're really asking that I think fills in the gap that we haven't talked about is -- and I think we're pretty well set for new capacity probably through the end of this decade right? So we've done McDonough we're doing Plant Ratcliffe at Kemper County we're doing Vogtle 3 and 4; McDonough; we brought back Miller from wholesale to retail in Alabama.
And there may be some other expansion of gas assets I think particularly in Georgia that we will see.
Now there may be some other things that we start to pick up that we really haven't talked about very much and the reason we haven't talked about it is because in fact they are unknown.
For example it may be we're very happy frankly with our experience so far on Vogtle 3 and 4.
It may be that we have future nuclear expansion.
To the extent we need to have more nuclear units in sight to keep this portfolio balanced say we need that by the middle of the next decade.
Well that would presume you start spending money the middle of this decade.
The other issue that we will see potentially is more CapEx associated with this litany this continuing succession of other environmental matters ash 316b and you name what else.
So it seems like there's always something out there.
The only thing that we comment on specifically is our 3-year growth projection but we see lots of other things going.
One last item and that is when we think about Southern Power going forward we always think to ourselves what a wonderful gas-oriented option that is.
It's something like 98% gas-fired in the Southeast.
We have great relationships.
They've entered into a lot of what we call full requirements customers that not only picks up current loads but also allows them to build for future growth in the co-ops and munis markets where they specialize.
So as the economy picks up we think there will be greater contributions from Southern Power.
For all those reasons we follow the dividend policy that we do regular predictable sustainable increases in earnings per share permit us to increase dividends per share at a rate well above the rate of inflation and that's what we've done; it's what we plan on doing.
Research Division</strong> So the next 3 years things haven't -- despite really things have shifted all that much under your feet and beyond 3 years there's a lot of different levers to pull depending how the economy looks but they're there.
Yes exactly.
The only thing that we've noted has been the HAPs MACT and the potential for $0.5 billion to $1 billion less on that whatever it was $18.4 billion aggregate number and that was most in '14.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Fleishman from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> And just a little more detail on some of the coal to gas data.
Do you have handy just this quarter of 2012 versus the first quarter of 2011 the changes what your gas capacity factors were and what your coal capacity factors were? Do you have it versus '11? I don't have it versus '11.
I'll go from memory there.
We'll get back to you on that.
I'm going to say that a normal kind of capacity factor in the past was in the 30s.
And then we saw it start to creep up a little bit last year and we need to come back and check this all right? So this is memory.
I want to say we got into the 40s and we even bumped into the 50s a couple times last year.
Nothing like where we are now.
We can get you absolute detail there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on your -- I know this has been brought up a little bit I think but just on your -- kind of when you're looking at your sales plan for the year weather-normalized how are you feeling on how that's tracking? And I know it's just 1 quarter.
Well look absent weather the economy's better than we thought it was.
Remember I guess we were projecting a GDP growth rate of around 2.6% and normally electricity follows at about 60% of that growth rate.
We've talked about that in the past.
We ratcheted that down to about 1.3% so 50%.
So there are some other effects.
Other people are estimating GDP growth this year to be 3% not 2.6%.
And if we continue to have 60% not 50% kind of relationship you could see an upward bias on the economy this year.
But we'll see.
Time will tell.
The only thing I can say right now is we're off to an awfully good start.
Your next question comes from the line of Kit Konolige from Konolige Research.
LLC</strong> So I wouldn't want to leave coal to gas with just 10 questions or so.
Could you give us a little sense of -- I'm sure your folks are starting to think about what new contracts might look like with coal suppliers.
Can you give us any sense of what you're seeing or thinking or anticipating about trends in coal pricing over the next 2 3 4 5 years? I wouldn't want to comment too much on that but there are some very interesting dynamics that are going on.
As we have suggested in the script we believe that our flagship units will be robust energy providers well into the future.
And so to the extent we make trades in term length of contracts I think we can have more assurance that those units will be in place.
So if you think about kind of a term structure we'll shorten up obviously on the marginal units and go longer potentially on the flagship units.
So you could see that right? The other thing that we have seen is obviously when we think about our flagship units you have Sheer [ph] Miller and some other PRB potentially blending operations.
So more of an orientation towards western coal rather than certainly eastern coal.
The other thing that would be a trend I suspect would be this -- we've always used kind of imported coal as a check against Central App particularly and perhaps others.
You may see a little bit less of that only because Central App seems to be less of a viable solution going forward.
But with respect to price there's all sorts of things at play that are really unknowable at this time.
One of the things we've suggested in that whole HAPs MACT issue is if the objective of certain parties was to reduce the consumption of coal in the world our coal is probably going to be exported to people like China and others and it's going to get burned.
It just won't be burned here.
So if exporting markets do open up as we think they might and in fact I want to say if somebody's got the statistic here where the exports of coal was as high as it's ever been and at least in the quarter or for the year or something like that pretty high exporting of coal.
You're going to see prices be a little stronger than otherwise you would think if all you were looking at was domestic demand.
So interesting stuff all the way around hard to predict what the future will hold.
That's why it's so important to play to a portfolio as we do.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Dobson with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question again on coal to gas.
You indicated you might burn 600 Bcf in '12 and we're making a comparison to '07.
I wonder what that comparison was for '11.
We actually have that.
Somebody's got that.
It was -- we actually do have it.
Unbelievable.
I'm eyeballing a chart 430.
Research Division</strong> And then to the coal side just sort of thinking more about the rail component of that can you talk a little bit about sort of what contract flexibility you have? And how much you're going down the road of sort of renegotiating those contracts? And sort of how flexible the rail will be in with you? Yes Jay this is Art.
Most of the rail contracts we have are full requirement contracts that don't require minimum values.
So when we look at terms they're from 1 to 6 years and we try to match up our coal coal contracts and our other commodity contracts that we have for our plants.
Longer-term contracts are tied obviously as Tom mentioned earlier with our flagship units which are going to be burning a lot of Powder River Basin coal over that timeframe.
So it depends on the contract and where the coal is needed and what kind of coal they're going to burn.
And even when you consider all the fuel switching that's been going on in the United States we remain an important coal consumer and an important customer of the railroads.
And I know I did this gosh back when I was CFO when rail delivery issues were of paramount importance.
One of the things some other people did in the past was to build these short line railroads and that's given us a great deal of flexibility in working constructively with our friends in the railroads.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
So the full requirements nature of the contract essentially gives you the flexibility I'm talking about.
So there really isn't a lot of renegotiation going on.
There's an ongoing level of renegotiation.
It's nothing that is extraordinary.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then onto Vogtle and I'm speaking specifically Tom of the dispute you've mentioned regarding COL and DCD timing.
Can you give us sort of a sense of the aggregate dollars that are in dispute? I don't think that's been disclosed so let me kind of beg off on that.
We'll get to it later.
You should just know so here again.
There've been lots of commercial claims back and forth and all that already.
We don't talk about those as a matter of course only because they need to get viewed as kind of a basket.
If we got into disclosing every commercial claim whether it was sensible or not and time frames and everything else as a practical matter that's just not a good thing to do.
So as we get significant commercial claims.
Obviously if it's material we'll let you know.
It will be disclosed.
But otherwise until things are in the form of a formal claim probably not good to talk about.
Research Division</strong> I absolutely appreciate how these things work I guess maybe a better way to ask the question is how closely are you coordinating with your neighbor in South Carolina who basically already had these issues and settled them? So they did talk about the numbers and that's why I was trying to get it I'm not forcing you to give a number.
I'm just trying to say they've been through this.
Do you guys coordinate with them or talk with them? They have a completely separate regime.
In other words they have a completely separate contract.
I can't speak at all to the nature of their contract.
All I can speak to is our experience.
They obviously settled a claim.
We don't have a claim yet.
We do know that there's a dispute around schedule.
But we don't have a claim.
And so therefore we're not in a position to talk about it other than to mention that there is one.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then last question on Vogtle back on the rebar issue.
This was a issue versus the DCD so the Shaw Westinghouse didn't install it properly or was there a problem with the DCD? I don't want to get too far into this one either.
There will be a time for this when they come out.
But it really deals with -- it's "did the rebar as it was installed near the wall section meet the DCD requirements?" That I think is the question.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with that Glenrock Associates.
I just wanted to touch base with you just to make sure I understood the load growth Steve was asking.
It sounds like you guys are on a weather-adjusted basis still sort of sticking with a 1.3% low growth but then it looks like it might be better because of stronger economic growth.
Did I understand that right? You said it perfectly.
We're off to a good start.
Okay and then the second thing I wanted to ask you was the dividend policy.
You mentioned about the potential for dividend tax change and your efforts to communicate investors' concerns.
What if the taxes were to be broke to the pre-Bush tax cuts which is one of the potentials we see here with the less than perhaps cooperative Congress? If that happens does that change the Southern Company philosophy on dividends and payouts and what have you? Not in the near term.
One of the hallmarks of our dividend policy is one that is regular predictable and sustainable kind of characterization to it.
It is so important in financial signaling theory to be consistent with your approach.
We would have to believe that there was a fundamental long-term change in order for us to deviate and we would only do that with extreme care.
We really like the track that we're on.
In fact we've got all kinds of interesting statistics.
I'm just dying to do one here.
Companies that have increased their dividend over 2% that has a yield over 2% and increased their dividend over 2% over the last decade and have a positive TSR.
There's only 2 companies in the S&amp;P 500.
We're one of them.
We feel like this really inures to the value accretion to our shareholders.
With respect to the public policy point here we've got to stay away from partisan politics and go to what's right for America and we shouldn't be pulling levers to increase our national revenue if you will when there are other more effective levers.
Recall that if we tax capital formation we actually hurt the ability of the economy to grow CapEx and therefore grow jobs and therefore grow personal income and therefore grow taxes.
This is exactly the wrong policy to take at this time.
One last point: When you consider stocks that have high dividend yields those are particularly attractive during periods of low economic growth or high relative risk.
That is exactly the global economic environment in which we are in.
Why in the world we would incent investors to be pushed into riskier capital gains-oriented investments and away from lower-risk dividend yield-oriented investments is beyond me.
Okay we'll see what happens.
Now the other thing I wanted to ask you was just on the market response rates that impacted you guys a couple years ago in sort of a significant way.
Is there any impact that we're seeing associated with that sort of unusual gas versus coal or anything like that that we should be thinking about? Yes Paul they amended those in the last rate case such that they tied the fuel costs associated with the marginal fuel cost of whatever hour that energy was demanded.
So the volatility that we saw several years ago around those RTP rates is no longer there.
And if you look at it now it's just not enough to talk about.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Jenkins from State of Wisconsin Investment.
First thing I was wondering was related to the financing plan.
It looks like you issued about $1.25 billion of debt in the first quarter.
And on your financing plan you mentioned that the DOE loans could be $2.3 billion to $2.8 billion in 2012.
So I guess I'm wondering how should we think about the mix between the DOE as a source and the primary bond market as a source of financing for the rest of the year.
Yes great question.
We've got -- actually we issued $1.4 billion in the first quarter of new debt.
And when we look at the rest of the year we think we've got about $2.6 billion left to hit our almost $4 billion of target.
To the degree that we don't get the loan guarantee then we'll be going to the markets to raise that capital.
But the markets have been in terrific shape to be able to handle that.
We'll just have to wait and see where these loan guarantees end up from a benefit to the customer perspective.
Okay.
I guess one other criteria that would determine the market's a better way to go or the DOE.
Well it just depends on the terms and conditions that with inside the Department of Energy might require us to agree to in order to get the loan guarantee.
Certain aspects of that we're just not willing to do.
Yes and Dan we could fill you up with what that is.
I don't think that's productive.
We have a negotiation going on.
I think we can get through it.
Okay.
Then I'm just curious I might have missed this at the beginning because I didn't get through right away.
But on the nuclear construction what are the main critical path items that we can look for in 2012 so we can as outsiders monitor the progress and make sure that we're still on track? Well I think I guess there's several issues going on right now.
The shield building and components related to the shield building are probably the most important.
But in fact we've talked about this on prior calls in terms of helping you all and I think that's our obligation to help you all understand kind of the major milestones and how we're moving forward right now.
We'll provide that to you.
Maybe we will do a special call or maybe we'll do something.
But we owe you that I think in the future.
but I would say in the near term it's getting the concrete poured getting the shield building in place and moving ahead.
Those are probably the I would guess the big items related to steel production are the big critical path issues right now.
Okay and then kind of related to the revenue impacts.
I know you had $0.05 in the quarter of positive impacts.
How were those spread between the operating units and then how much of that was rate increase versus stronger-than-expected demand? Well it's a mix of both but you've got some interim rates going on at Gulf that went into effect and Alabama had a rate T correction that took place in the fall of last year.
That actually started going to benefit earnings in 2012.
That's the majority of it.
The rest would be adders from a little bit of growth that we're seeing.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Real quick Southern Power 2 items.
One are you still 80% contracted? I think you disclosed at one point at the end of last year you talked about having some contract roll-off of the beginning of this year impacting Southern Power.
And two would you ever -- I mean Southern Power 8 gigawatts plus now getting pretty sizable.
Do you ever think about whether there are other alternatives for Southern Power? Whether to monetize it somehow separating it from the rest of the utility business? Michael this is Art.
The contract coverage through 2016 were about 80% covered.
And yes we've had some contracts go off.
But we've also got some new ones signed up under the Georgia IRP decision.
They approved about 1 000 megawatts of Southern Power capacity coming on in 2016.
2015.
2015.
So those you're going to lose some you're going to add some back.
That's the nature of the contract situation at Southern Power.
Now your other question is a very interesting one and we have talked about that a lot in the past.
If you remember there was I forget what it was 3 4 years ago the multiples on these kinds of contracted assets was really at a very attractive level.
When you think about what Southern Power is a lot of the -- we really would need to be very conscious of our customer impact there.
When you think about having a full requirements relationship in our territory with particularly co-ops and munis that we had a long-standing relationship with it is conceivable that you would consider other potential owners whether you sold it outright sold a minority position did a variety of things.
I think those kinds of decisions are more likely with perhaps if you will the non-core pieces of Southern Power whether it is -- particularly those that are outside our territory.
Now one other item I would say and a place outside our territory that we particularly like and we're gaining critical mass in is in the Carolinas: Low land [ph] and some of the others Cleveland County.
We're developing a very good relationship.
When you think about the nature of our service to our customers it goes more than kind of a one-off hit-and-run strategy.
We are built to last.
Our assets have an economic life 40 years or longer.
And I think one of the hallmarks of our industry is a long-term view.
We believe in cultivating a relationship before we need it and we believe that the relationship therefore as we continue to grow our business in these areas of concentration really matters.
So we take the how if you will into account as much as the what in terms of valuing that business.
Research Division</strong> Art just following up on your comment does that imply you're less contracted now versus kind of that 80% average meaning for the next 2 or 3 years and you kind of ramp into that? Or is it kind of a flat annual average over time? Yes well it fluctuates over time.
In 2012 we're about 84% covered.
2013 drops to 81%.
And then as the numbers kind of move around you get to the 80% number by 2016.
That's kind of the nature of it.
And then of course the further out you go it kind of has a long slow slope down.
But we kind of have that intentionally in order to give ourselves some optionality with the assets we have to sign things up later.
So a little bit of flexibility ain't all bad.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Crowdell with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on Southern Power.
I mean when we're forecasting Southern Power I mean is the way to go about it assume like you guys view that as maybe like a regulated business in all the contracts you enter you look for say mid-teens ROE or whatever the asset value is? Or treat that business as like a full merchant portfolio and kind of price it to where are the current forwards are or something like that? We don't disclose the internal rate of return of any contract but we use as a general planning criteria about a 150 basis-point premium on the contracted resources that we have.
That's a general kind of statement.
And then for the uncovered portion what you look for is kind of what's a reasonable expectation as to the energy margin.
Last year I think Southern Power earned $162 million.
Somewhere around there.
So I mean that's a decent benchmark to use for last year.
Use the criteria I just gave you and estimate for this year.
At this time there are no further questions.
Sir are there any closing remarks? No.
Listen we really appreciate everybody's attentiveness.
We always enjoy these calls.
It's always fun to chat about not only the issues related at Southern but the issues related to our industry and America.
We appreciate your following and look forward to chatting with you in the future.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the Southern Company First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Southern Company Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dan Tucker Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Planning.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome everyone to Southern Company's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
Joining me this afternoon are Tom Fanning Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Company; and Art Beattie Chief Financial Officer.
Let me remind you that we will make forward-looking statements today in addition to providing historical information.
There are various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements including those discussed in our Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
In addition we will present non-GAAP financial information on this call.
Reconciliations to the applicable GAAP measure are included in the financial information we released this morning.
We'll also be including slides as part of today's conference call.
These slides provide details on the information that will be discussed on this call.
You can access the slides on our Investor Relations website at www.southerncompany.com if you want to follow along during the presentation.
In addition we are now making these slides immediately available for download on our website.
Now at this time I'll turn the call over to Tom Fanning Southern Company's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
Before we turn to Art for a review of our second quarter performance and latest outlook I'd like to make a few -- take a few moments to update you on our recent progress on several important operational and strategic fronts.
As we continue our shift away from coal and increase our use of lower priced natural gas we are passing the benefits along to our customers.
For example at our largest subsidiary Georgia Power we recently reduced fuel rates by 19% and overall retail rates by 6% which represents a $567 million reduction.
At Gulf Power several incremental fuel rate adjustments had cumulatively reduced fuel rates by 25% and overall rates by 10% since the end of last year.
As we look ahead our energy mix will continue to shift along with fluctuations in the cost of various fuel sources.
But no matter what the future holds we will continue to seek the best combination of available sources for the benefit of our customers with the goal of keeping retail prices as low as possible.
With that in mind we remain focused on promoting a sensible national energy policy first by preserving all available sources of generation including new nuclear 21st century coal natural gas renewables and energy efficiency; and second by leading our industry in driving energy innovation creating real solutions not rhetoric to meet the needs of this nation's energy future.
Two excellent examples of such innovations are Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 and Plant Ratcliffe in Kemper County Mississippi.
Once online these 2 projects are expected to provide value to our customers in terms of very low energy costs and relative price stability.
The significance of the Ratcliffe and Vogtle projects cannot be overstated.
While natural gas appears plentiful and inexpensive today it is not a panacea and there are many reasons to be cautious about its future.
These include the need to resolve potential environmental issues related to frac-ing; the need to develop infrastructure including both pipelines and storage; the need to reach decisions about exporting natural gas both quantity and time frame; evaluating the price and volatility impact of a shifting demand curve; and improving the relatively high counterparty credit risks that hinder our ability to hedge long-term gas exposure.
Because overreliance on any single fuel source is never a good idea we must continue to preserve existing sources such as coal and nuclear even as we cultivate new ones such as renewables and energy efficiency.
And as seen on this slide even relative to a combined cycle plant burning natural gas at $3 per million BTU the variable cost for electricity from plants Vogtle and Ratcliffe are expected to be significantly lower with natural gas at $5 per million BTU the cost differential is even more dramatic.
The relative energy cost benefits at Plant Ratcliffe are driven by the low cost of the project's abundant mine amount of lignite as well as the benefits of long-term offtake agreements for CO2 and other by-products.
For Vogtle Units 3 and 4 the value of production tax credits which are not included in this analysis are expected to further lower the variable cost for the first 8 years of commercial operation.
Now please understand we remain convinced that natural gas generation will continue to be a dominant solution in a balanced portfolio.
In fact we expect to have more natural gas capacity in our fleet than any other resource over the next decades.
But clearly the innovative new facilities we are adding should help preserve our fleet's diversity and provide relatively stable low-cost energy to our customers for many decades.
With that in mind I'd like to update you briefly on our recent progress with both of these major construction projects.
Construction continues at the Ratcliffe site as we move toward our target completion date of May 2014.
Our most recently filed status report reflects an estimated cost for the project of $2.88 billion including a $62 million contingency.
Earlier this year the original certification order for Plant Ratcliffe was remanded back to the Mississippi Public Service Commission.
The PSC acted quickly to enact a temporary order so that construction activity could continue while it considered the remanded order.
The PSC later issued a new order with 70 additional pages of supporting detail and 300 references to the original record to protect against future challenges to the certification.
In its original order in 2010 the PSC agreed to allow Mississippi Power to recover its financing costs during construction.
This agreement was a key to Mississippi Power's initial decision to proceed with this project.
The revised order included in April -- issued in April of 2012 contained the same provisions.
In June 2012 the commission decided to deny CWIP recovery pending the resolution of outstanding legal challenges to the certification.
Mississippi Power has asked that Mississippi Supreme Court consistent with the stipulation reached with the PSC staff earlier this year to allow it to begin recovering these costs subject to refund until such time that the court makes a final ruling.
Denying these rates will increase costs for Mississippi Power's customers over the long term and we are therefore hopeful for a timely resolution of this matter.
In the meantime our current analysis indicates that the overall cost to customers for Plant Ratcliffe will be less than projected than the original certification due primarily to the lower cost of debt financing and the proceeds from the by-product sales mentioned earlier.
In the end our intent is to provide customers in Mississippi with the benefit of a cost-effective cutting-edge technology that exceeds even the EPA's proposed new source CO2 standards.
Construction is also proceeding on Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 with approximately 1/3 of the project now complete.
This project is expected to provide tremendous benefits to the state of Georgia over the next several decades contributing to job creation and increased tax base and fuel diversity.
Our next regulatory milestone for this project will be the decision by the Georgia Public Service Commission on the costs included in our sixth construction monitoring report which was filed earlier this year.
This decision is scheduled for August 21.
It is important to note that the commission's independent monitor has stated repeatedly that Georgia Power continues to manage the project well.
It is also recommended that the commission approve all costs incurred during this reporting period.
Georgia Power is scheduled to file its seventh construction monitoring report on August 31.
Tremendous progress can be seen at the plant site and at supply chain facilities located around the world where some of the major components are being manufactured all of which are on schedule.
Testing on the heavy lift derrick commenced last week and significant foundation work has been completed on the turbine islands cooling towers and nuclear island.
As we look ahead to the next several months major progress is expected to be made in the nuclear island's turbine building and module assemblies.
Perhaps the most exciting progress will be the arrival of major components of the site later this year and early next year the first of which is the reactor vessel for Unit 3.
In the meantime we are continuing discussions with our contractors over the current project schedule and costs and we'll continue to make decisions that are in the best interest of our customers.
Any adjustment in cost or schedule is dependent in part on the outcome of these negotiations and must be approved by the Georgia Public Service Commission during the semiannual review process.
We are keeping the Georgia PSC updated as these negotiations continue.
We are also reviewing the loan guarantee terms and conditions including the new issues raised by the United States Department of Energy since the Solyndra default.
Recall the nuclear loan guarantee program was put into place to incentivize utility companies to pursue new nuclear construction for the first time in decades.
However if we determine that the final terms and conditions for the DOE loan guarantee will not add value for our customers we will finance the project through more traditional means.
Even without these loan guarantees we believe that we can still deliver up to the $2 billion in potential benefit to Georgia Power's customers from this project.
In addition to the work being done at plants Ratcliffe and Vogtle we are continuing to place new units into service that reflect our commitment to innovate to innovative and diverse energy resources.
In April this year Georgia Power placed a second combined cycle gas unit in the service at Georgia Power's Plant McDonough-Atkinson.
This 840-megawatt facility is one of the most efficient gas plants in our portfolio and will benefit customers with lower fuel costs.
The final unit of Plant McDonough-Atkinson another 840-megawatt combined cycle gas unit is scheduled to be placed into service during the fourth quarter of 2012.
Meanwhile Southern Power's new 100-megawatt biomass facility near Nacogdoches Texas began commercial operation in June of this year ahead of our schedule and under budget.
The Nacogdoches project is the largest biomass plant in the United States utilizing the world's largest bubbling fluidized boiler.
It will provide energy under a 20-year contract to the City of Austin Texas.
Southern Power is further expanding its renewable portfolio by announcing a new project with its partner Turner Renewable Energy for a 20-megawatt solar photovoltaic plant in Nevada.
The Apex Solar Project began operation this week.
It is supported by a 25-year purchase power agreement with Nevada Power Company.
This is Southern Power's second joint venture with Turner the first being the Cimarron Solar facility in New Mexico.
We are increasing our use of other renewable resources as well.
Alabama Power recently procured 200 megawatts of wind energy from Oklahoma and also filed an application with its Public Service Commission for another 202 megawatts of wind capacity from Kansas.
We anticipate a hearing on the Kansas agreement in August and are hopeful for a positive ruling sometime this fall.
In a few minutes Art's going to share our current projections for environmental compliance capital.
As a reminder there were several changes made to the EPA final mercury air toxics or MATS rule that provide for more flexibility than the originally proposed rule.
Our public comments on the proposed rule were part of an effort to protect our customers from the significant and unnecessary cost of this rule and its burden on an already fragile economy.
Although these efforts have resulted in a lower expected cost for MATS compliance this is still a very expensive rule that will be difficult to comply with on a continuous basis.
Utility MATS is part of a combination of well intentioned but overreaching rules and regulations that will eliminate a significant portion of America's current coal generation fleet and effectively prohibit new coal plants from being built.
EPA which is responsible to no electorate is essentially creating America's energy policy which is the job of Congress.
We will continue to be engaged at a national level on these matters.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Art for a review of our second quarter performance and a few other economic and financial updates.
Thanks Tom.
In the second quarter of 2012 we reported earnings of $0.71 a share equal to our earnings of $0.71 a share in the second quarter of 2011.
We recorded a $21 million net benefit during the second quarter of 2012 for an insurance recovery associated with the 2009 settlement that rose out of the 2003 bankruptcy of Mirant.
This insurance recovery resulted in earnings of $0.02 per share in the second quarter of 2012.
Excluding this item earnings for the second quarter of 2012 were $0.69 per share compared with $0.71 per share for the second quarter of 2011 a decrease of $0.02 per share.
Our year-to-date as reported earnings for the first 6 months of 2012 were $1.14 per share compared with $1.20 per share for the same period in 2011.
Excluding the insurance recovery item year-to-date 2012 earnings were $1.12 per share compared with $1.20 per share for the same period in 2011 a decrease of $0.08 per share.
Let's turn now to the major factors that drove our numbers for the second quarter of 2012 compared with the second quarter of 2011.
These drivers will exclude the insurance recovery item mentioned earlier.
First the negative factors.
Weather reflects -- weather effects reduced our earnings by $0.06 a share during the second quarter of 2012 compared with the second quarter of 2011.
Warmer-than-normal temperatures contributed $0.01 in the second quarter of 2012 compared with a $0.07 impact in the second quarter of 2011.
Increases in nonfuel O&amp;M expenses for our traditional operating companies reduced earnings by $0.02 a share in the second quarter of 2012 compared with the second quarter of 2011.
Increased depreciation and amortization representative of our growing rate base reduced our earnings by $0.01 a share during the second quarter of 2012 compared with the second quarter of 2011.
An increase in interest expense reduced our earnings by $0.01 a share during the second quarter of 2012 compared with the second quarter of 2011.
Finally an increase in the number of shares outstanding reduced our earnings by $0.02 a share during the second quarter of 2012 compared with the second quarter of 2011.
Now the positive factors retail revenue effects in our traditional business added $0.05 a share to our earnings for the second quarter of 2012 compared with the second quarter of 2011.
Usage and economic growth increased earnings by $0.02 a share during the second quarter of 2012 compared with the second quarter of 2011.
A reduction in income tax expense increased earnings $0.02 a share during the second quarter of 2012 compared to the second quarter of 2011.
Finally parent and other added $0.01 a share to the earnings during the second quarter of 2012 compared with the second quarter of 2011.
In conclusion we had $0.12 of negative items compared with $0.10 of positive items or a negative change of $0.02 a share excluding the insurance recovery item.
Moving now to a discussion of our second quarter sales and our economic outlook.
On a weather-normalized basis our residential sales grew 2.1% during the second quarter of 2012.
This reflects the nearly 20 000 new residential customers we have added across our system since the end of 2011.
Improving economic conditions and migration into the Southeast are translating into positive signs for the housing market with surveys of regional brokers and builders by the Atlanta Federal Reserve indicating increased buyer traffic increased sales and declining inventories.
Meanwhile Atlanta was recently ranked as the fifth most popular moving destination in the United States by the American Moving and Storage Association.
As expected residential growth was a leading indicator for commercial energy sales which had a modest weather-normalized growth of 1.2% for the second quarter of 2012.
Our industrial sales for the second quarter of 2012 were essentially flat compared to 2011.
These results reflect a broad range of drivers that vary from slowing global demand to increases in self-generation to increased production.
Sales to our largest industrial segment chemicals were flat in the second quarter of 2012 due to slowing global demand.
Our second largest segment paper continued to grow while its electricity demand declined as a result of an increase in self-generation.
Finally a number of industrial segments increased their usage as their production expanded.
These include pipelines up 12%; auto production up 9%; lumber up 7%; and fabricated metals up 6%.
Meanwhile our region's economic development activity for 2012 is well ahead of its 2011 pace.
Some 7 200 jobs were announced in the second quarter alone a 134% increase over the same period a year ago.
And our project pipeline remains robust across a variety of industries.
In just the past few months Airbus announced it will build passenger jets in Mobile Alabama beginning in 2015 adding up to 1 000 direct and nearly 3 000 indirect jobs.
This project is transformational and could be as significant to Alabama in the aerospace industry as Mercedes-Benz has been in the auto industry.
State Farm Insurance meanwhile will bring 500 new jobs to Atlanta later this year as it consolidates a customer service center.
We are also very encouraged by last week's announcement that the Obama administration will support the fast tracking of the proposed port deepening project in Savannah.
This project which is in concert with the expansion of the Panama Canal will enable larger cargo vessels to enter the Savannah Port and is expected to spur greater economic growth for our region.
Earlier this month we reconvened our economic roundtable group which consists of selected economists and representatives of several large and commercial and industrial customers in our territories.
Overall the consensus from the roundtable was for U.S.
gross domestic product to expand by about 2% in 2012.
The group generally agreed that the global economy is slowing and that this is slowing the expansion of industrial production.
Low natural gas prices are offsetting this trend and we continue to see signs of onshoring activity due to a shrinking cost advantage for Far East markets when compared to the U.S.
The group has seen indications of improvements in the housing sector but believes that continued recovery will remain slow.
Finally the group expressed confidence in the ability of the Southeast to grow faster than the U.S.
as the economy improves due to faster population growth a strong industrial base and a continuing trend of foreign investment into the region.
Before I discuss our 2012 earnings guidance and estimate for the third quarter I would like to provide an update to our environmental compliance capital forecast along with our revised financing plan.
As Tom indicated earlier the final utility MATS rule provides [indiscernible] compliance flexibility than the original proposal.
While we still have a few decisions to make on certain coal units we have completed most of our analysis and have revised our 3-year compliance capital forecast to reflect our updated expectations.
This forecast is subject to change if the current challenges to the rule result in revisions to the standard.
As you'll recall we previously provided a MATS compliance capital projection of up to $2.7 billion for the 2012 through 2014 time frame.
We also indicated that this amount could be reduced by $500 million to $1 billion depending primarily on the number of baghouses in our final compliance strategy bringing the final number to between $1.7 billion and $2.2 billion.
Based on our current analysis our projection for MATS compliance for 2012 through 2014 now totals $1.8 billion representing a reduction of $900 million from our previous estimates.
While the number of baghouses has been reduced to 4 or 5 from a high of as many as 17 other costs have been added to our plan to reflect the need for additive injection systems and related plant modifications.
As before this plan also includes significant investment in transmission projects as well as fuel switching to natural gas.
Additionally as part of our review we have revised our other compliance capital needs to include current estimates for coal combustion residuals effluent guidelines and 316(b) requirements.
While this portion of our forecast includes a reduction of approximately $1 billion over the 3-year period this primarily reflects a change in the timing for coal ash compliance spending.
We expect to spend this money eventually but that money might not -- might now occur outside the 2012 through 2014 time frame.
Our strategy now calls for approximately 13 000 megawatts of coal-fired generation to be preserved for the long term.
Of the remaining 7 000 megawatts about 4 000 megawatts remain potential candidates for retirement.
Most of the remaining units will utilize alternative fuels primarily natural gas to provide needed capacity.
As a result of this CapEx update we have updated our debt and equity financing plans.
This slide shows our 2012 year-to-date financing activity as well as our current forecast for the remainder of 2012 through 2014.
Based on revised CapEx projections our updated financing forecast no longer reflects the need to issue equity in 2012 or 2013.
As a result we plan to use the proceeds from stock option exercises for 2012 and 2013 to buy back the incremental shares issued.
This will keep net proceeds from equity at 0 for the 2-year period.
We continue to have success in the debt markets.
Thus far this year we have issued $2.5 billion of long-term securities with an average yield of 3.68% and an average maturity of 23 years.
Our equity ratio target of approximately 44% is unchanged.
By 2014 we see the need for approximately $700 million of new equity as our environmental spending ramps up.
We currently anticipate the ability to fulfill this equity need through our existing dividend reinvestment and employee plans.
Now I'd like to share our earnings estimate for the third quarter of 2012.
Our earnings estimate for the third quarter of 2012 is $1.12 per share and our guidance range for the full year remains $2.58 to $2.70 per share.
Now I'd like to hand it back over to Tom for his closing comments.
Thanks Art.
In closing I would like to extend a heartfelt thanks to our many employees who responded recently when devastating storms struck our neighbors in Florida and also in the Midwest and the mid-Atlantic regions.
Even though our own service territories experienced damage from these same storms we managed to dispatch nearly 1 800 workers to assist 10 utilities in the most severely affected areas.
It's always awe inspiring to witness the pride and dedication exhibited by these crews whether they're working in their own backyard or in some other parts of the country.
That pride and dedication is the backbone of our business and expresses itself and the value we provide to customers year in and year out.
At this point we're ready to take questions.
So operator we'll now take the first question.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Daniel Eggers with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First off I guess in Mississippi with Ratcliffe can you just walk us through kind of expectations of when you get a court decision.
And if it goes your way and the commission feels like it's all cleared how is the resolution going to get -- put back in place for cash recovery on financing costs? Dan it's not clear.
There is a procedure within the state such that if the Supreme Court does not rule by 30 days we get 1/2 of the rates under bond put into effect.
And if they don't rule by 180 days we get the full asking put into effect.
But as to when the Supreme Court will rule it's just not clear.
We hope it is quick.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the environmental CapEx changes I guess baghouses accounted for a piece of it but for the other compliance issues is this just kind of the delay on 316(b) and that sort of stuff is just pushing out the CapEx? Do you think that those underlying capital expenditure numbers are still the right cost base for what you know today? You got it exactly.
We think this is just movement in time rather than a change in magnitude.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the comment on maybe firing some of these coal plants of gas can you just walk through how that works the ability of the plants to run that way.
And do they functionally distributed sort of like a peaking asset for super peak moments or are these assets going to run more regularly? No you got it.
Essentially you change the fuel feed system so you're going to change a cold feed into a gas feed.
Burner tips obviously change so the production modifications are not that significant.
So capital costs associated with changing is not that big.
You are however going to be using gas in a relatively inefficient manner but recall we're doing this in order to accommodate EPA's own kind of onerous schedule requirements.
We think that in general the heat rates of these units will be in the 10 000 to 11 000 range and will serve essentially as heat made as a peaking capacity.
Research Division</strong> Tom do those serve as a permanent solution or is it just an interim kind of fix to make sure you maintain reliability with the need to replace those with a CCGT or some sort of base load resource later? Yes look over time we'll transition these units out so it's hard to say kind of when that will occur.
When you look at kind of our expansion plan on generation right now with Vogtle 3 and 4 with Kemper County with bringing the Miller units recall we did that last year back from wholesale into retail in Alabama with the McDonough units at Georgia and then I guess another third-party capacity purchases that Georgia PSC has undertaken this year I guess that's about 1 000 megawatts when you add all those together that really speaks pretty well to our capacity needs including these MATS transition issues through 2020.
So you're really asking a question post 2020 we'll see.
Your next question will come from the line of Steve Fleishman with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification on the Mississippi filing.
So what legal provision allows you to implement the rates if you don't hear from them? Is that under some kind of provision of the Mississippi just general law or specific to this project? It's a state statute.
It's state statute #77372.
And the other thing that I just wanted to make sure everybody understands when all this happened 2 of the commissioners there Leonard Bentz and Lynn Posey came out with their own press releases.
Let me just quote these guys.
Bentz said "It is imperative to understand that I believe that the IGCC Plant is the best option for the customers of Mississippi Power." He goes on to say some other things.
And then Posey says "I am still in support of the Kemper County plant and believe CWIP will ultimately save the ratepayer millions of dollars." The issue really arose with their reluctance to put CWIP in place while the other challenges in the state Supreme Court continued.
Research Division</strong> Okay and we don't know when the other challenges will be ruled on that could be whenever? You're right.
We don't know.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just I'm curious on the coal to gas switching did it change much even just first quarter to second quarter though or has it been pretty consistent this year? If you look at the appendix we have some stuff in there -- in the appendix we show kind of how it is changing.
And I would argue that kind of as time goes by it's fascinating.
So for the first half we're kind of 45% gas and 38% coal.
Recall we kind of projected for the year kind of a 47-35 relationship.
So for the year-to-date '12 we're pretty well there.
Now what's interesting is during the third quarter you should expect the ratio to kind of flip back a little bit more centric on coal.
That's because we still have a lot of kilowatt hours.
And I was just looking at kind of late-breaking data we may set a new peak today.
We're going to come very close for a yearly peak today.
So these are things that we're keeping our eye on.
And as total demand increases as a percentage just because the capacity is there we'll burn a little more coal.
But we'll keep our eye on it.
We still feel confident with the 47-35 relationship with gas to coal for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one clarification on Vogtle 3 and 4 it sounds like the resolution of the $400 million of claims will also be whenever that happens is also a likely time frame to update any -- to do any overall cost updates as well as timeline updates for the project.
Is that the fair way to look at it or could they've all come at different times? I would argue that is the dominant theme of any change.
I mean recall that that commercial issue really arose kind of with the delay originally of the DCD which kind of was 11 months long; and then ultimately the delay of the COL as a result which was I forget 7 months long.
And so their claim kind of centers on that circumstance.
And recall also that the construction period uses as a trigger point the DCD and the COL so that kind of starts the clock on the contracts.
So that really is the kind of commercial issue on discussion who's responsible for the DCD delay and also therefore the COL delay.
So my sense is Steve there really hasn't been anything material since then.
We talked about rebar last time and just to remind everybody we did that intentionally to say that we will always have issues and we shouldn't measure success or failure based on the presence of issues and challenges rather how well we find success paths to solve those challenges.
Well in fact I think we've got one on rebar and we don't believe that the rebar issue will be at all any kind of material effect on cost or schedule.
We'll file a license amendment request and we'll get that done expeditiously.
So it's just one of those issues where we're going to work through it and continue to derive constructive results.
So I would say now going back to your original question it probably will coincide with the resolution of the commercial claim with us in the consortium.
Your next question will come from the line of Jim von Riesemann from UBS.
Research Division</strong> The question I have is on a totally different topic.
Can you talk a little bit about some of the industrial cogen that might be going on in the system and if it really means a longer term trend over there -- that we're going to see given the natural gas deck? Well Jim this is Art.
Obviously in the paper segment you're going to see more of that than anywhere else.
They're beginning to use a little more natural gas in that self-generation.
It's an economic decision for them.
In terms of size of that I don't have any.
I can get back to you with some of that but I don't have any data at hand to talk about megawatts and how many are being impacted.
But that's a normal operation that we would expect with companies like that.
Research Division</strong> Okay so in terms of like industrial growth going forward we shouldn't expect to see a material change.
Is that what you're saying at the end of the day? No I wouldn't think so.
Look I think our industrial growth is still pretty robust.
We want to go through this math.
If you adjusted for cogeneration and kind of the major plants that we knew were on sort of maintenance outages -- in fact we've gotten some intelligence that one of the maintenance outages is going to result in greater consumption once they come out they're actually expanding.
We think industrial sales quarter-over-quarter year-over-year would have been a little less than 1%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Switching to just usage and everything else what do you see in terms of residential usage with some of the pickup in customers? It looks like it was up in the quarter.
Yes yes.
So if you look at weather-normal residential sales you were 2.1%.
And if we had to break that out between kind of increasing customers and then usage you would get to a usage increase of about 1.6%.
But you got to be careful in how you view that because we've been adding new customers and especially it seems like we're gaining momentum there a little bit.
When you think about usage let's think about kind of a couple of things.
One unemployment is coming down jobs are showing up and as a result of people getting more jobs personal incomes rise and so you see a normal cause-and-effect relationship with usage.
More money begets more consumption.
Another issue that is important really goes to when the new customers arise and how we keep score here.
Whenever you look inside a quarter you've always got to kind of be careful as to the longer term implication to the annual trend or the sustaining trend.
Say for example we get a new customer in March so they come at the very end of the first quarter.
It will show up as a new customer but very little increase in usage because they've just joined us.
In the second quarter you won't see the new customer you will see the new usage and therefore there's probably an effect tied up in that 1.5% or 1.6% increase in usage.
It really is kind of the catch-up effect as we add new customers.
So look there's a variety of effects here.
We're gratified with the trend.
We think the increase in customers is something that will provide sustainable benefits down the road to our growth projections.
And even as Art mentioned with his economic roundtable if they expect 2% and that's interesting in terms of GDP growth for the Southeast we're still staying with our about 1.3% electricity sales growth for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The follow-up question is a different topic but on the highway bill in the recent act is there any impact on you guys with your funding contribution or potential funding contribution requirements going forward? Dan we're still looking at that.
We think it's beyond 2015 is kind of what we're guessing right now.
So nothing in the short term.
Your next question will come from the line of Anthony Crowdell with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm kind of following up on Steve and Dan's question on Ratcliffe.
And I understand I guess in 30 days Mississippi Power can institute or recover 50% of I guess the CWIP.
Is that accurate and is that your plan if no decision comes out of the Supreme Court? Sure.
Yes that's what the statute provides.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And will you guys introduce the interim rates? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you know when the 30 days is or roughly? Let me make sure I get the right date.
It's around August 8.
Your next question will come from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Tom I just -- I think you've probably answered half of my question on customers and usage but I want -- you also made a comment that you felt you're picking up momentum and you have this 20 000 customers in the first half.
But you have 15 000 in the first quarter and so that would sort of suggest that the -- yes the sales showed up in Q2 rather than Q1 but the pace of additions dropped off pretty sharp in Q2.
Well that amount that you're referring to was the positive income impact.
And recall also that sometimes the addition and subtraction -- the ebb and flow of customers is seasonal.
So we think there's still reason to believe that we have good growth ahead of us here.
Research Division</strong> So that normal seasonality you'd see more hours in Q1 than Q2 if you look back to when you were adding I guess in the past? Yes but we still believe there's some ahead of it as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- and could I just follow-up also on the rebar issue.
I remember before you were kind of talking about the fact not having to make a license amendment request which is kind of the right path forward but now you are going to have to do that or it sounds like you're going to have to do that but you still think it can be done expeditiously.
Can you talk a bit more about -- why that won't impact the schedule how long you think it's going to take and what you can do in the meantime -- can you keep working in the meantime? How we sort of get into the details of that statement? Yes I'd be glad to provide you information.
I remember at our recent Vogtle executive oversight meeting Buzz Miller shows us essentially a schematic of work that continues in the nuclear island even besides the fact that we're working on a rebar.
Now let's kind of go through the blow by blow a little bit as to what happened there.
So in an inspection we found that the configuration of the rebar along a particular wall was not per the DCD.
We stopped work we tried to figure out along with the NRC what the right path was.
Recall too this is a new procedure that we're borrowing with.
In the old days you build a plant and then you had the NRC basically certify it.
And now we have a design certified and we've got to build to the design.
So this is a little bit of a new process for everybody to come along with.
We thought that we had -- that really Westinghouse Shaw had a design that was not going to require a license amendment.
We're the licensee here and one of the things we did was to send a letter to the NRC to basically seek clarity.
You know that we have a conservative [indiscernible] towards these things probably didn't need to do it but we sought their oversight here to make sure that the changes that were being proposed met the NRC requirements.
And so what we got back from the NRC was actually helpful that is that the NRC responded in fact we probably should pursue a LAR a PAR a license amendment request preliminary amendment request.
So we know now that we're building to the license and the path forward is as we've suggested.
My sense is that with all the other work going on this rebar issue is not critical path and we do not believe this endorse to our cost responsibility in completing the plant.
Research Division</strong> So in terms of any sense of how long it might take to -- how long is that the case? I'm a little reluctant to do that but what's in my mind is a number of weeks like 3 weeks something like that.
But that's all dependent upon how you get the license amendment request turned around.
We hopefully will complete all the rebar by the fall of '12 but the weeks I'm talking about is the amendment request from the NRC.
But we think that'll be turned around expeditiously.
Research Division</strong> Depending that we should think -- look for that to be turned around in less than a month kind of thing? Well yes that's my estimate now.
[indiscernible] but that will be my best judgment as I sit here.
Your next question will come from the line of Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> A very very very brief question.
We I guess had not assumed that your compliance forecast would ultimately come in near the high end so I think net of this $1.945 billion reduction is it fair to say when we because I'm not in front of all the data that this takes you to your budget just down to the $16.3 billion that's closer to the midpoint of what you had laid out when you gave that big analyst presentation a year or 2 ago? So it's -- so at least in terms of kind of what we said before with respect to MATS we said $2.7 billion.
And then we -- as we got kind of the new rule not the proposed rule we said it could be between $0.5 billion or $1 billion less and therefore we said $1.7 billion to $2.2 billion.
Well sure enough it ended up at $1.8 billion.
When you think about the total amount of CapEx it was $18.2 billion or $18.3 billion and now we kind of think it's going to be $16.4 billion $16.3 billion somewhere in that realm.
Research Division</strong> Certainly -- probably it takes some of the pressure off on the financing side which is [indiscernible].
Well -- and in fact that's why Art was very clear about the lack of equity needs over the next 2 years.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And you feel like relative to the long-term earnings growth aspiration of the corporation this keeps you inside the skids on that? Yes.
Your next question will come from the line of Mark Barnett with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
I know you had already given some good detail on these splits.
When you're looking at the 20k number of customers for the year just a little granularity if possible on new connections and newbuild versus maybe some reconnections and kind of what's driving that in the mix.
Yes we've done a little more research on that and it appears that we've got a good mix of maybe some homes that have been foreclosed that had meters removed from the premises that have now been reinstalled and sold.
The inventory of unsold homes is down in Atlanta and that's a reflection we think of that fact.
That is also supported by the fact that most of the 20 000 customers 60% of them are in Georgia about 25% in Alabama and the remainder would be in Gulf and Mississippi.
So it's not just one state it's across the system that we're seeing this increase in customers.
A little more color too.
One of the effects you have to consider are the tornadoes that impacted Alabama.
And we think the people stayed in the region so what you see is kind of this interesting migration of people that may have been living with relatives or in temporary residences now moving either into multifamily homes or moving into primary residence looking homes.
And another just data point that underlines what Art just told you unsold housing inventory now is about 2.8% relative to kind of a normal level of about 2.3%.
You may recall during the depths of the recession we were in the 4s so we're really making good progress on eating up that excess inventory.
And Mark I guess one other element of that is we saw some multifamily additions as well so it's not just new homes it's some new apartments.
And we're just surmising that folks that we're doubling up before are now creating new households and that's begun to take shape.
And in fact I hear you've credited the Fed I joined the board of the Atlanta Federal Reserve Bank the multifamily housing sector is one of the fastest growing sectors in housing in the Southeast.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And quickly on kind of the roundtable discussions that you've had and obviously some really positive news there I guess just going forward from a big picture how do you sort of view the like a strengthening dollar the prospect for a strengthening dollar on the region's export economy mixed bag between final assembly and maybe more domestic supply chain? I mean how do you see that developing? That's a good question but it's not one that we discussed at the meeting.
It didn't come up amongst the economists or the chemical folks who would probably be exporting a lot of their goods with this low natural gas price.
They were more concerned with global demand and where that was going.
Especially in China and South America were more of their concerns.
But obviously the dollar is a factor that they will have to keep up with.
And about 25% of the goods in the Southeast are we think are going toward -- the value of that is going to exports.
So it will impact the Southeast.
And it's fascinating stuff.
I mean the value of our exporting has gone up 8% year-over-year so that continues to be an interesting area.
But I would say most of these businesses are adjusting off of because they will also talk about their fear of the continued malaise in Europe.
And even though China has a 7% GDP growth it's reduced from what everybody thought it was going to be.
My sense is businesses in the Southeast are adjusting on the fly.
We still benefit from the fact that even with potentially a stronger dollar -- but recall we have our own challenges.
We've got our own cliffs at the end of the year.
We have our own fiscal challenges.
It is not clear that we are inevitably heading towards a stronger dollar perhaps we will against the euro unclear about other worldwide currencies.
I guess people are watching this like they never have before and they are responding accordingly.
At least we can stay in the Southeast as we have in the past but we have the prospects for a more robust economy given a business-friendly climate willing and able workforce et cetera.
So we'll see.
Our next question will come from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions.
One Tom going into the quarter you guys had guided us to like a $0.65 number for the quarter.
Weather obviously came out relatively normal.
So what was the real driver in your mind that caused you to do $0.04 better than what you guys thought going in? Yes Ali it's -- if you look at the revenue effects in 3 of the 4 operating companies those certainly offset the weather that we had compared to last year.
Nonfuel O&amp;M was a piece of that as well as we were able to -- even on a year-over-year basis O&amp;M were up but on our expected basis we reduced a good bit of that.
I think on a year-to-date basis we're some $100 million below our original expectation there so we've done quite a lot to drive those numbers.
And I would like to -- as I said Art and I obsessively compare for this call and everything else we would like to look for kind of interesting relationships of data.
And one of the things that we were just looking at kind of that's true for the quarter true for the year-to-date it looks like 2011 year-to-date and for the quarter had much more favorable weather from an earnings standpoint than did 2012.
And it completely masks kind of the increase so far we've seen from customers usage and the revenue increases that we've seen through regulatory processes.
So if you just look at it year-to-date we've increased on a cents per share basis $0.13 out of customers' usage and other revenues.
Weather was negative $0.14.
My sense is as we go through the rest of the year if weather is nearly the same as last year you'll start to see the power of the earnings capability through the regulatory mechanisms and improvements in customers and usage come to bear.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Tom second question one of the interesting anecdotes that came out on the ongoing Duke hearings out of North Carolina was the sudden Progress discussions that apparently had gone pretty far along before not getting completed.
So just curious if would remind us what your thinking is on the M&amp;A side and what works didn't work or I mean how are you looking at the toleration in the industry today? Yes I always laugh about this because we're just remarkably consistent here and you guys could probably get the same speech I'm going to give but I'm going to give it anyway.
Our view is it is part of our fiduciary responsibility to always seek ways to accrete to shareholder value.
We think about M&amp;A as a how not a what.
The "what" would be that we like our integrated regulated business model even in the competitive generation business we structure it with long-term bilateral contracts of creditworthy counterparties not taking fuel risks in order to essentially replicate the model that we like that avails our customers our shareholders with essentially -- our customers with reliable electricity at low prices and the best service possible and our shareholders with reasonable returns with the lowest risk profile as possible.
That serves us we think awfully well.
During Franklin's tenure even when I was head of strategy we coined the phrase "The business we know with the place we know with the customers we know." We really do like and believe in our model and think it serves our customers and shareholders exceedingly well.
Now we always do look to seek ways to improve it and that is an ongoing responsibility of management and we continue to do that.
But I would just remind everybody when you look at our track record over almost any time frame our stand-alone proposition is awfully strong so we're always looking for ways to improve upon an already strong value proposition.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So fair to say price was one of the key issue that gets in that specific discussion? Well obviously I think having given you the generality we won't comment on any specific situation.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
Last question if I could Art perhaps to you given the reduced CapEx numbers that you're talking about now what kind of rate base annual growth should we be thinking about for Southern? Ali I believe the number that we're looking at is going to run at 6% to 7%.
Remember that's adjusted in the short run.
Those projects wouldn't come online until '14 '15 so -- and recall that rate-based growth is lumpy so you're going to see it occur in spurts rather than evenly over time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> 6% to 7% annually? Yes.
Your next question will come from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two questions for you Vogtle and Ratcliffe related I'm going to -- going back to that slide you talked about Tom where you showed the variable cost on a per-megawatt-hour basis do you mind giving that same information but all in so including both variable and fixed? Say that again? Research Division</strong> Well just -- I'm trying to think about the total -- customers have to pay for the return on and return of capital so it's not just a variable cost economic analysis.
What would be the all-in dollar per megawatt hour or cents per kilowatt KWH numbers for Ratcliffe and for Vogtle relative to like a new combined cycle? I don't have that in front of me.
You guys may be able to deliver.
But it's -- the numbers I have in my head would be on a dollar per KW basis.
You're going to look at a new plant like 4 500.
Kemper was like 4 200 but I think that's a $14 billion number for the nuke and a $2.4 billion number.
So it's going to be slightly higher than that.
We went through this math last night.
We will be able to get it to you later.
That is kind of the number that -- what I've always said is it's a sad thing about Kemper it's a coal plant that has an environmental profile better than natural gas and has an economic profile roughly equivalent to a nuclear plant and I think that's what that slide shows you.
That's how it will dispatch.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You also in one of the slides on Vogtle you referenced some comments from the independent monitor but if I go back and look at Bill Jacobs' testimony filed in late May he makes some interesting comments about his concern that there's not -- I think he calls them integrated project schedule that's been published lately or has been disclosed in the public domain lately.
He references a number of potential change orders above and beyond the rebar issue that could impact the timeline.
These items are redacted in pages 16 and 17 of that testimony.
Just kind of curious at what stage do you have to go back to the commission and say "Hey look here's what the new schedule is here's where we'll take it forward?" Or is that really not mandated on you by the commission until you actually get everything resolved? So Michael the way you ought to think about our relationship with the independent monitor and the staff and even the commission it is continuous and not discrete.
We have an exceedingly transparent process as we go through this effort together.
So that's point one.
Point two really goes back to Fleishman's question.
When you think about kind of the major factors that could impact cost and schedule I guess we have arrived all the time kind of commercial issues that we deal with and have settled and continue to deal with.
It's just this one this $800 million claim by the consortium against all of the owners that's kind of gotten the most interest by people.
Now obviously we've already disclosed that we dispute the claim and all that.
But I would argue that as we settle the commercial difference that we have with the consortium if there is a change in the cost or schedule it would likely be in association with that settlement.
Your next question will come from the line of John Alli [ph] with Decade Capital.
Quick question I think I might have missed this a little earlier in relation to Greg Gordon's question about growth CAGR still intact? Could you just remind us what it is and what the base is? Yes the base is our current range of guidance for this year of $2.58 to $2.70.
Grow the top end of that by 7 grow the bottom of that by 4.
And that over the next 3 years would describe the growth in earnings range that we see as possible within the model.
With the change in CapEx remember that that would probably only affect some AFUDC during the 3-year time frame so we still see it as possible with a strong economy with supportive weather.
And with Southern Power having the opportunity to do more as well we still see that range as being reflective of possibilities for earnings growth.
If I'll just add to that the change in CapEx through this 3-year period you almost can't see the difference.
It's -- over time you'll start to see more but in the near term it -- the ones don't hardly matter.
And remember we're not going to be issuing -- we'll be issuing less equity as we have less CapEx so that kind of offset some of the effects.
We're very comfortable with the range.
Got it.
And then just the load embedded in those ranges? Talk about growth in sales? Yes.
Yes that remains unchanged.
That was the original forecast we put together.
And we update that.
We'll update you in January of next year about 2013.
And we're still good with our 1 3 estimate this year.
Right.
Okay excellent.
Just on the Kemper County issue the NPSC they then filed is it a brief asking the Supreme Court to rule faster? Or what was the I guess their last filing in that case? The Public Service Commission basically argued against the base -- I mean the rates under bond just to reject the interim issue.
All they're doing -- and it was very brief there wasn't any kind of associated testimony or underlying facts or whatever.
It was really just kind of restating the conclusion that they reached when they decided to defer the inclusion of CWIP rates until the state Supreme Court issue related to certification was settled.
It was just that they didn't feel like they should put in CWIP until the issue with the Supreme Court was resolved.
Got it.
Does that create any -- I guess if you guys continue along the path and the say the Supreme Court doesn't rule for call it 220 days or something you guys are already collecting does that create any issues for the NPSC? I mean they're supportive of the plant anyway but why would they -- or I guess why would they oppose to the automatic collection? I can't speak as to what was in their minds.
We were surprised by this vote because if you think about it when the plan was originally certified in the new order it all contemplated having CWIP.
The legislation that was passed in Mississippi contemplated CWIP.
We think CWIP is warranted for a project of this magnitude.
The next question will come from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
I kind of want to follow up on that last question by John and your answer there.
I mean do you think that they're concerned about what the ultimate decision will be in the Supreme Court? Or because I mean like you said it was a little bit of a surprise and I mean it would suggest I don't know again -- me without -- not knowing all the legal intricacies that maybe there's some issue there or is there? What -- can you elaborate a little bit on that? Well okay so this is my opinion.
I don't believe there's an issue there at all.
I think when you look back at the testimony when we decided to go forward with this plant a lot of what Mississippi was concerned with was fuel diversity.
If they had not built this plant they would have been relying much more on natural gas.
And we all know that that is a higher beta energy policy if you will.
We've already seen some volatility in natural gas prices.
Even though they're historically low they're now creeping to about $3 per million BTU.
And it's interesting there since I've been out there in the weekend interview on The Wall Street Journal and some of the other speeches I've been giving lately I think more and more people are realizing that while it's a wonderful circumstance we find ourselves in to have cheap natural gas it's not hard to come up with data.
I would argue that -- and if you want me to I'll go through this but I'll save it if you don't.
It's not hard to say that you could go from an average daily consumption of natural gas in the United States from say a 67 million Bcf -- I mean 67 Bcf per day to something well over 100.
It's not far a put to get there.
Well I think -- no I don't want you to get into a lot of details.
Just was -- I mean I hear what you're saying.
I just -- it just is sort of a little bit of a surprise I guess...
Well it was a surprise to us.
Right.
Okay.
And then just finally the DOE loan guarantees I mean so what is the hang-up there? And I know you guys feel that you can finance it either way and I just -- it seems like it's going on a long time now and I just was wondering if there's any sort of -- if you can give us sort of just a feeling as to what the specific issue is? And would it make an impact I guess -- the financing numbers that you guys have I assume I guess you don't have the loan guarantees in there correct? Correct.
Right.
So any deal you'd come up with would be even a lower deal for customers I would assume.
So could you just sort of give us a little bit of a flavor for what's going on there? Yes Paul this is Art.
As Tom kind of explained in the script ever since Solyndra occurred the DOE has gotten much more deliberate in its negotiations around terms and conditions of these loans.
The conditional agreement that we had with them was around a corporate finance perspective and where they are going is more towards a project finance-oriented terms and conditions.
And some of the requirements that they have outlined for us are things that may increase cost to customers.
And we're simply saying that at -- the bottom line for us here will be value to customers.
We're not going to do anything to jeopardize the value of those elements that we represent.
So that's kind of the bottom line that we'll use to measure as to whether or not we pursue these to final resolution or whether we bypass them and just go the credit markets for the capital.
And let me just add my own color here too.
And Art said deliberate.
I would add it's not just deliberate in terms of slow and pedantic in style it is new and that really goes to these notions of project finance on a corporate finance deal that doesn't make sense and unnecessarily burdens our financial integrity and financial flexibility.
We are making good progress.
We are working through and we're very hopeful that we can get all this done but time will tell.
Okay.
And then on the tax the income tax I noticed that that's been going well for the last couple of quarters here.
Is there anything in particular that's causing it to be -- is that kind of unusual? Or do you think that that's pretty much the run rate we should be expecting here at34% rate? And just the $0.01 at parent other than the nonmarket benefit of parent is a guess what I'm talking about what was that? I'm sorry Paul.
Your question on taxes was around the $0.02 in the second quarter? The $0.02 in the second quarter right just -- and just -- it looks like it's been good the last couple of quarters so just -- is that just the sort of the run rate we're thinking about here or there's -- were there any sort of special sort of settlement gig or there's something that [indiscernible]...
There were some ongoing normal routine kind of adjustments through some reserves but these are normal recurring kind of things.
Sometimes they move positive sometimes they move negative.
Our effective tax rate was 34% so it's pretty stable as well in the second quarter.
Okay.
And then just the parent benefit at $0.01? That was lower financing cost at the parent year-over-year.
Next question will come from the line of Andy Levi with Avon Capital.
Just a quick question and I guess you've kind of touched on it as far as your long-term growth rate in the 5% to 7% range but I guess kind of just playing with some numbers changing some of the CapEx numbers and then obviously just understand -- on the common stock so you're not going to issue any next year right and in fact I guess you'll be buying back stock for your various plants right in the open market is that correct? That's correct.
Right so you'll basically have flat shares next year.
And I guess this $872 million number you had on the second quarter that'll probably be pretty close to what you have for the year this year and then I guess you start issuing stock again in 2014.
But kind of looking at that and looking at also what you've done as far as your financing plan on the debt side would it be fair to say -- now I don't want to put words in your mouth but just kind of the numbers I'm looking at that you'd probably be closer to the 6% to 7% earnings growth rate everything else equal versus being down to the 5% range is that kind of fair? Well Andy there's lots of moving parts in there.
As I mentioned earlier it's going to take weather it's going to take a strong economy it's going to depend on the O&amp;M flexibility we have within those same time frames.
So yes it's difficult to isolate one variable and make a -- and give you an answer on that.
Your next question will come from the line of Ashar Khan from Visium.
Can I just ask the third quarter guidance what are the things that kind of like help in the third quarter versus last year positives and negatives? Yes Ashar hold on a sec I got something here to help me.
We look at the revenue effects that you saw through the second quarter those will continue into the third quarter at -- that's at Georgia Alabama and Gulf.
You should have some additional help from Southern Power as they picked up some new contracts this year around Nacogdoches and with Cleveland County.
And they should be additive in the second half of the year.
We continue to have O&amp;M initiatives which we think may add as well.
And I think growth may be an add or dependent upon how our commercial and residential numbers look in the third and fourth quarter.
Okay.
And then can I just ask as you stand at the midpoint of the year based on what you have earned it seems like -- is the midpoint the better point where you can end up for the year as we are still trailing on an LTM basis? Or is there still a chance that you can end up at the higher end upper end of the guidance? Yes you could still end up there.
There's lots of moving parts...
What we always do is we'll update you at end of the third quarter.
You know the third quarter is so important to our earnings profile.
And so far we have reasonable weather in July.
The one thing I would just point you to is that kind of interesting data profile I gave you for the first 6 months and that is when you look at customers and usage and also the revenue changes we've had in some of our jurisdictions that was up $0.13 in the first 6 months.
Now year-over-year comparisons we were down $0.14.
So so far for the first 6 months the adverse comparisons on weather have basically wiped away the other positive earnings profiles that we've been able to show.
So far if you look at the last 6 months of the year if weather is the same -- and actually we had a mild fourth quarter in 2011 but if weather is the same for the next 6 months and you'll see the power of these new earnings profiles new customers usage et cetera come to bear.
So obviously we'll update this later but I think that's kind of interesting profiles including what Art told you.
Your next question will come from the line of Dan Jenkins with State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
I had a couple of questions first related to your update to the financing plan and first focusing on 2012 that's up quite a bit from what you issued earlier.
And I was curious how much of that is just let's say additional refinancing or callable debt that you did versus new net issuance versus the original plan.
Let's see here.
You originally had like 35.50 for 2012 and that's 42.59 now.
So...
So let's see.
We're at about $300 million ahead so I would estimate that $300 million is probably some refinancing opportunities that we took advantage of.
So you haven't increased your net debt issuance plan for 2012 it's all just out? We still have a number of other issues that are candidates possible candidates potential candidates for refunding.
But what we've outlined to you is either maturities or new money needed to finance the ongoing needs of the construction program in our business.
Any refinancing wouldn't add to the net issuance that would only -- because what you retired would subtract and what you issued would add and then it would net up to 0.
So I guess -- so is that the entire reason for the increase in 2012 versus the 35.50 that you...
Yes I believe it's just refinancing opportunities.
Now if it can reduce CapEx you may see some reduction in the second half so we'll see.
Okay.
And then I also had a question related to the industrial you've shown some industrial highlights on Page 10 of the presentation.
And overall industrial was flat.
So I was curious kind of 2 things: One what were the areas that were negative that kind of offset the positive highlights you showed.
And then of the positive highlights that you showed how many of those or what portion of that was related to say new plants or new pipelines that would be -- that continue in later quarters versus just expanded capacity here at existing facilities? The segments that were down for us the biggest one that -- I don't have it in front of me but it is paper and that I believe we covered that in our information around self-generation.
They've opted to self-generate with the low price of natural gas.
The others -- hold on just a second.
Paper was down.
The military bases were down.
That may be somewhat weather-related there.
And textiles which is really housing-related is down about 10%.
So those are the biggest elements of the negatives amongst the industrial segments.
And in line with the maintenance outages right? That's correct.
But that was in chemicals.
Chemicals were basically flat year-over-year.
But it was a great big one.
Yes.
So for the ones that were up though how much of that do you expect to continue going forward? Is that for mostly new facilities and so forth? Yes if you look at transportation auto production they've added new ships to their production lines so it depends upon how that demand relates to that.
The pipelines there was a new pipeline customer in Gulf in our Florida Panhandle so that would be an additive customer that would help that number to be positive through the rest of this year.
And then you go to the economic development thing as you start to build out Airbus and a variety of other things Caterpillar.
Okay.
Further out further out.
[indiscernible] in the near term.
And then just to follow up on -- earlier on your -- when you were asked about the marginal cost versus the all-in costs for those new facilities I'd be interested in that information as well.
You bet we'll give it to you.
At this time there are no further questions.
Sir are there any closing remarks? I just want to say thank you all so much for joining us here this afternoon.
It's always a pleasure to chat about the business.
And we see a bright future ahead for the rest of this year and look forward to chatting with you about it in the months to come.
Thanks for joining us.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the Southern Company Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Laurel and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Southern Company Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] After the speaker's remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dan Tucker Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Planning.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Welcome to Southern Company's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
Joining me this morning are Tom Fanning Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Company; and Art Beattie Chief Financial Officer.
Let me remind you that we will make forward-looking statements today in addition to providing historical information.
There are various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements including those discussed in our Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
In addition we will present non-GAAP financial information on this call.
Reconciliations to the applicable GAAP measure are included in the financial information we released this morning.
We'll also be including slides as part of today's conference call.
These slides provide details on the information that will be discussed on this call.
You can access the slides on our Investor Relations website at www.southerncompany.com if you want to follow along during the presentation.
In addition we are now making those slides immediately available for download on our website.
Now at this time I'll turn the call over to Tom Fanning Southern Company's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before we begin I'd like to take a moment to acknowledge those of you that have been directly affected by Hurricane Sandy.
Our hearts go out to you and your loved ones during this difficult time and we are doing all we can to help.
Our industry's response has been unprecedented with virtually all EEI member companies contributing resources to this enormous effort.
Our own operating companies have dispatched more than 2 400 workers to help restore power.
These workers and all the other responders have left their own loved ones and are working long hours under challenging and often dangerous conditions to get -- these folks are some of the real heroes of this disaster.
The affected areas are beginning to show signs of recovery and we expect that the process to continue.
In the meantime please stay safe and know that everything is being done to restore electric service to your area as safely and as quickly as possible.
Now let's turn to a review of our operational performance including our recent progress on several important initiatives.
The most important operational metric as you know is safety.
In 2012 we are having one of our safest years ever with one of the lowest recordable incident rates in our history.
It is a testament to our continuing commitment to do every job safely every day.
We also continue to excel in executing our business model which as you know is based on putting customers at the center of everything we do.
The best evidence of this [Audio Gap] our most recent customer benchmark survey which shows all 4 of our traditional operating companies in the top quartile for customer satisfaction among U.S.
utilities.
A key driver of our success is system reliability where we continue to distinguish ourselves as being among the best in the industry.
In this effort our generation transmission and distribution operational areas we have performed exceptionally well.
I'm especially proud of our team for these achievements and their ability to maintain focus on these priorities.
I'm also pleased to announce that earlier this month we achieved under budget and ahead of schedule the milestone of 4.4 million Smart Meters installed completing our installations in Alabama Georgia and Florida.
This exciting new technology will help improve reliability lower costs and minimize our environmental footprint.
For example we have already avoided approximately 40 million miles of driving by meter readers since the program began.
Our customers have also seen benefits from the new system in the form of faster outage response time.
And during major storms the technology has proven to be an invaluable tool for coordinating restoration activities.
Smart Meters are just one more great example of Southern Company's commitment to driving and leveraging energy innovation all for the benefit of the customers we serve.
We continue to make progress on our major construction projects including Vogtle 3 and 4.
In fact we are now halfway through our project schedule and more than 1/3 of the way through construction.
We recently achieved a major milestone of more than 10 million work hours recorded on the construction site where our success continues to be driven by our uncompromising focus on safety and quality.
Recent progress include the installation of approximately 480 tons of rebar in the Unit 3 Nuclear Island and completion of the Unit 3 turbine building foundation which includes approximately 1 100 tons of rebar and 8 600 cubic yards of concrete.
Extensive progress has also been made on the cooling towers for both units.
Assembly of the Unit 3 containment vessels bottom head is complete and the Unit 4 bottom head is more than halfway finished.
The structural steel cradle upon which Unit 3 containment vessel bottom head will be set is also complete.
We continue to highlight the quality assurance and oversight processes associated with this project.
A  significant recent example of our focus on quality is the concrete pour we completed on 1 000 cubic yard Nuclear Island mockup structure.
The event lasted approximately 9 continuous hours and simulated the first Nuclear Island concrete pour which will entail approximately 50 continuous hours of work.
The mockup pour was a success and the lessons learned will benefit all of the participants in the upcoming basemat pours.
Major upcoming milestones include the arrival of the Unit 3 reactor pressure vessel and the pouring of the Unit 3 Nuclear Island basemat.
Both are expected to occur around the end of this year.
The achievement of recent licensing amendment requests discussed in prior earnings calls has helped to clear the way for pouring the Nuclear Island basemat concrete.
The nuclear regulatory commission approved 2 license amendment requests also known as LARs one associated with the rebar design and the other with basemat thickness.
These approvals demonstrate that the new licensing process works as it was intended.
Since the last earnings call the Georgia Public Service Commission approved another $292 million in expenditures.
This means approximately $2 billion has been approved through December 2011.
On August 31 2012 Georgia Power filed the seventh Vogtle construction monitoring or VCM report.
This fully unredacted and publicly available report highlights the EPC contract has contributed to stable capital costs how the projected cost of completing the nuclear facility are still less than the original certified amount and how up to $2 billion of potential additional savings for customers has been identified since the original certification.
Also highlighted in the reporting process is the disclosure of cost disputes between the project owners and the contractors.
Our EPC agreement stipulates a specific path for dispute resolution.
The required steps are in order: negotiation mediation and finally depending on the size of the dispute either binding arbitration or litigation.
The most significant dispute is Georgia Power's potential $425 million share of a claim related to the delay of securing approval of the design control document or DCD.
Late last week the mediation phase of this dispute ended and both parties filed lawsuits associated with the claim.
We continue to assert that the EPC contract is clear as to which party is responsible for certain costs and that Georgia Power and the other owners had no obligation for the cost in question.
At this very early stage there is no definitive timeline for resolution of this plan but we will continue to keep you posted on its progress.
We do not anticipate that the litigation will have any negative impact on the continuing work at the site.
At Plant Ratcliffe in Kemper County Mississippi construction remains on schedule to begin commercial operation in May of 2014.
Cost projections remain on target to finish at or below $2.88 billion.
We continue to actively manage ongoing pressures on costs and schedule which are typical for a project of this scale.
Installation of the gasifiers and assembly is proceeding exceptionally well and the carbon dioxide absorbers are all in place.
Natural gas and effluent water pipelines as well as critical transmission upgrades have all been completed on time or ahead of schedule.
Contracts for the sale of final byproducts of the gasification process had been finalized which combined with the expected savings from financing and factoring in current capital estimates are projected to provide approximately $500 million more in value to Mississippi Power customers than was originally projected.
Over the next few months and early into 2013 the remaining gasifier lift will be completed.
Other major elements such as the water plant and air compressor are scheduled to be completed in the spring.
Start-up activity begins next year as well with the first fire of the gas turbines scheduled for the second quarter of 2013.
Heat-up of the gasifiers is scheduled for late '13 and reliable flows of SIM gas are expected to begin in early 2014.
Once the plant is finished and operational customers in Mississippi will enjoy the benefits of a clean cost-effective cutting edge energy for decades to come.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Art for a review of our third quarter performance and the economic outlook for the remainder of the year.
Thanks Tom.
In the third quarter of 2012 we reported earnings of $1.11 per share compared to earnings of $1.07 per share during the third quarter of 2011 an increase of $0.04 per share.
Earnings as reported for the first 9 months of 2012 were $2.26 per share compared with $2.27 per share for the same period in 2011 a decrease of $0.01 per share.
This includes a previously announced $21 million net benefit during the second quarter of 2012 for an insurance recovery that resulted in earnings of $0.02 per share associated with the 2009 Mirant bankruptcy settlement.
Excluding this item year-to-date 2012 earnings were $2.24 per share compared with $2.27 per share for the same period in 2011 a decrease of $0.03 per share.
Let's turn now to the major factors that drove our numbers for the third quarter of 2012 compared to the third quarter of 2011.
First the negative factors.
Usage and economic growth decreased earnings by $0.03 a share during the third quarter of 2012 compared with the third quarter of 2011.
Weather effects reduced our earnings by $0.07 a share during the third quarter of 2012 compared with the third quarter of 2011.
Weather was $0.04 below normal during the third quarter of 2012 whereas weather was $0.03 above normal during the third quarter of 2011.
An increase in depreciation and amortization representative of our growing rate base decreased earnings by $0.01 a share during the third quarter of 2012 compared to the third quarter of 2011.
An increase in interest expense reduced our earnings by $0.01 a share during the third quarter of 2012 compared with the third quarter of 2011.
Finally an increase in the number of shares outstanding reduced our earnings by $0.02 a share during the third quarter of 2012 compared with the third quarter of 2011.
Now the positive factors.
Retail revenue effects in our traditional business added $0.09 a share to our earnings for the third quarter of 2012 compared to the third quarter of 2011.
Decreases in nonfuel expenses for our traditional operating companies increased earnings by $0.07 a share in the third quarter of 2012 compared with the third quarter of 2011.
As we have shared in previous calls we typically build flexibility to respond to weather and other revenue variances into the second half of the year.
A reduction in income tax expense increased earnings $0.01 a share during the third quarter of 2012 compared with the third quarter of 2011.
Finally Southern Power added $0.01 a share to earnings during the third quarter of 2012 compared to the third quarter of 2011.
In conclusion we had $0.14 of negative items compared with $0.18 of positive items or a positive change of $0.04 a share.
Moving now to a discussion of our third quarter sales and the economic outlook for the remainder of 2012.
On a weather-normalized basis total retail sales decreased 1.4% during the third quarter of 2012.
Year-to-date weather-normalized retail sales are essentially flat.
Our industrial class showed mixed results with some pockets of strength and some pockets of weakness.
A slowing in export volume seems to be consistent with slowing demand among certain global markets.
However industrial sales on a year-to-date basis remains at approximately 95% of prerecession levels.
As for bright spots we continue to see strength in transportation and fabricated metals related to the continued growth of auto production in the region.
Other customer expansions and pipelines in lumber drove strong gains of 7% and 5% respectively.
The last quarterly sales trend -- the latest quarterly sales trend reflects a slowing of economic activity which we believe is driven by uncertainty around upcoming elections the fiscal cliff and the global economy.
Many of our industrial customers appear to be waiting until these issues have been addressed before taking any further steps such as hiring new workers opening new facilities or expanding existing ones.
The best evidence of this can be seen in the U.S.
economic uncertainty index which shows economic policy uncertainty at an all-time high.
In fact since 2008 economic policy uncertainty has averaged about twice the level of the preceding 23-year period.
As further evidence that businesses are waiting to make decisions can be seen in the tremendous backlog of active economic development projects in our region.
Our economic development pipeline currently features more than 300 projects representing more than 43 000 jobs and $15 billion in capital investment.
Announcements in the third quarter alone represented -- represent 3 700 jobs a 36% increase over the same period in 2011.
Those same projects represent $1.5 billion in capital investment a 155% increase over the same period in 2011.
These projects should begin to impact our sales over the next few years.
Examples include Mando an auto parts manufacturer bringing 660 jobs to Georgia; and Huntington Ingalls Industries which was awarded a $1.5 billion Navy contract to design and build amphibious vessels that could provide up to 2 000 jobs along the Gulf Coast.
Also last quarter Home Depot opened their previously announced call center that's expected to add 700 jobs in Georgia.
We continue to monitor events and economic activity as we develop our forecast for next year.
As always we'll share our outlook during the fourth quarter call in January.
Now I'd like to share our earnings estimate range for the fourth quarter of 2012.
Our earnings estimate range for the fourth quarter of 2012 is $0.38 to $0.40 per share which puts us in the middle of our annual guidance range.
Now I'd like to hand it back to Tom for his closing comments.
Thanks Art.
In closing I'd like to share with you some exciting news we had just last week.
As I've said many times a critical component of any common sense national energy policy is pursuing energy innovation through investments in research and development.
Southern Company continues to lead in this area particularly with our development of 21st century coal technology which is already being implemented in China and it's scheduled to make its debut in the United States in 2014 at Plant Ratcliffe in Kemper County Mississippi.
This proprietary technology known as TRIG or transport integrated gasification is now ready to be offered all around the globe allowing for low-carbon generation using an affordable abundant resource.
Toward that end we have announced an alliance with KBR to market TRIG technology worldwide.
More than 1/2 of the world's existing coal reserves consists of low-rank coal such as lignite and sub-bituminous coal the very types of fuel that TRIG was developed to utilize.
While leveraging this technology we can preserve coal as an energy resource and ensure that more customers have access to clean safe reliable and affordable electricity.
It's just one of the more -- it's just one more example of Southern Company's long standing industry-leading commitment to energy innovation which continues to reap benefits for customers and shareholders alike.
At this point we are ready to take your questions.
So operator we'll now take the first question.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Daniel Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Listen Tom just on the economic outlook and a little more pessimism in your voice than probably I've heard in a little while do you think it's one of these issues that we get through the election into the fourth quarter that '13 is looking better when you talk to your guys? Or is this something that could linger longer in the doldrums as you talk to folks? Well that's really it Dan.
I mean I think we've tried to call it as we see it.
We started out the year like gangbusters.
We're meeting many of our annual goals in the first half of the year and then we started seeing things start to slow down.
And we've kind of changed our tone from being cautiously optimistic to being just plain cautious.
It does appear -- and this is not a Southern Company issue -- this appears to be a United States economy issue.
That during the third quarter largely because of uncertainty we're just seeing the economy kind of come to a halt.
This morning on Bloomberg there was an analyst from BlackRock who called this out.
We just saw from NAM the National Association of Manufacturers they said the #1 issue facing manufacturers today is uncertainty in the economic climate.
That's why we wanted to show you this kind of uncertainty index.
It's a fascinating issue.
When you look at the number and magnitude of issues that need to be resolved it's really unprecedented in this nation's recent history.
It is my firm belief that for the good of America the policymakers in Washington will address these issues in a timely manner.
And no matter who's elected these are not Republican issues or Democrat issues these are American issues.
For the good of America I believe that will happen.
When you look at the quality of our backlog so when we try and look through the numbers to find out what's out there the quality of the backlog is as good as it's ever been.
And so if we can just break through the logjam of resolving be the uncertainty I believe the economic future and the continued recovery of the United States could occur.
Research Division</strong> And then Tom on the residential side you have had some customer growth this year so are you seeing kind of efficiency taking hold? Or is it just more of a psychological impact that's causing usage to be flat to down versus prior years when the economy hasn't been particularly great either? So we pride ourselves Dan on kind of providing lagniappe for these calls.
We've done our own research on what's going on with efficiency and everything else.
A trend that we have called out in the past has continued and we are seeing actually the economy at least here in the Southeast get more and more electrified.
And in fact there is a small amount of energy efficiency weighing against the growth of electricity sales.
And what we're seeing if you strip out kind of exogenous factors we're actually seeing per capita use of electricity grow.
Now when you look at the number -- this is why you got to peel back and get information around the data -- we have seen frankly some -- and maybe we should cover this on the post call but there have been some details that involve really accruals for unbilled revenue and unbilled sales around what were before typically estimated unbilled revenue compared to now as we switch over to this new digital age and the AMI meters we're seeing a different process in estimating unbilled revenues.
We think that may be largely responsible for the slight downward performance you see in residential.
We believe that the real performance in residential sales is roughly flat.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess one last one Tom.
O&amp;M has been a pretty good success story as managing against demand.
If we were to look to next year some sort of normalization what kind of inflation do you guys think you're going to have on the O&amp;M line based on kind of the surplus you've been able to accumulate in the last couple of years? Well so we kind of build the budget assuming kind of 2 things for O&amp;M.
One is that we have normal inflation associated with the economy wages et cetera.
The other associates a growth in O&amp;M associated with an increase in rate base an increase in assets that must be maintenanced if you will.
Here again when you peel the onion back on O&amp;M for this year I think the companies have done a beautiful job kind of managing performance relative to exogenous factors.
If you just think about it for a minute look at year-to-date weather this year versus last year.
We're down $0.21.
This has been one of the mildest years on record for Southern Company a mild winter a mild summer.
Even for the third quarter year-over-year we're down $0.07 on weather.
Now when we look forward on O&amp;M growth you would expect to see something like 3% to 3.5% growth for the reasons I mentioned.
And I think when you look year-over-year on O&amp;M we're essentially flat.
So we've eaten up not only inflation but also O&amp;M associated with new assets.
We will continue to monitor that of course.
We'll get into our earnings projections for 2013 in the January call.
And your next question comes from the line of Angie Storozynski with Macquarie.
I have 2 questions.
Could you comment about your long-term earnings growth projections now in light of the slower load growth? And as you said your ability to control cost is largely absorbed at this point and so how should we think about the EPS growth going forward? Well Angie we'll cover that in the January call.
That's what we always do.
So key update long-term earnings guidance once a year and we'll do that in January.
Just one comment on your statement.
It is -- and I've tried to convey this so far on this call and really even in our remarks but there is more uncertainty in the economic climate than we've seen in a while.
Now uncertainty is reflected in the uncertainty index and all the fiscal policy issues that need to be dealt with.
Depending on how those get dealt with obviously we'll be able to be much more precise in our view of the economy.
What we're trying to reflect right now is with the election with the fiscal cliff we have some challenges around the worldwide economy.
It is less clear more than ever.
Hopefully by January we'll get some sense as to how that is being resolved.
And with respect to O&amp;M we'll just see.
I wouldn't conclude as you have that perhaps we've used up our flexibility.
Okay.
And secondly about your IGCC we're pushing another IGCC project with some cost of runs and some issues with the gasifier.
You mentioned that your gasifier's going to be installed or heated up on the late 2013.
How can you be comfortable with the performance of the gasifier before it's actually being installed? Perfect.
It's funny we love our earnings calls and we love preparing for them.
I remember Jim von Riesemann asked me a question about why we were different than Edwardsport and I went off on a soliloquy for 20 minutes.
I'll resist the temptation to do that but let me give you some headlines as to why we're different.
Number one this is our technology.
We're not buying from a third party.
Number two you know that we are the only one in the industry with an engineering and construction services group of 1 600 people.
We're able to self build this effort along with several main subcontractors but this is our effort.
And when you look at the fact that we've deployed I guess by the end of '13 $13 billion of the environmental equipment we know how to build stuff.
We think we're going to do likewise a great job here.
Thirdly remember that we're the only company engaged in proprietary research and development in a robust way in the industry and the heartbeat of that effort is in our Wilsonville facility.
We call it the PSDF Power Systems Development Facility.
We grew this technology and it really -- it evolved into some R&amp;D that we started way back in the '60s with liquefaction.
It is now gasification.
We've run that thing for like I forget how many man-hours 50 000 man-hours or some enormous -- we have enormous experience running this technology with this fuel at that.
So we actually imported fuel from that site to run through our PSDF facility.
So for a variety of reasons we think we're going to be in very good shape to fulfill the promise of this for the benefit of the customers in Mississippi Power.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> My question is could you remind us in Georgia what level of sales growth is embedded in the current rate plan sort of part 1.
And then on this kind of O&amp;M management and sales outlook if I remember rightly there was a facility in that plan to go in for an interim increase if you thought you were going to underearn your ROE.
Is that something you could envisage absent a reacceleration in the economy triggering and maybe just remind us how that works? I'll deal with the second part of your question first.
There is a mechanism and I can't remember the acronym for it but that would be applicable to the 2013.
And it would foresee some event in the economy whereby you didn't find to the bottom end of your range.
I think it's called the ICR provision and you would go back in for some kind of accelerated hearing process whereby you might be able to come to some solution of that by year end or allow them to get inside the bottom end of their range.
The actual increase in sales embedded into their plan is -- I have to say Jonathan I don't have the exact numbers on me but somewhere in the neighborhood of 2%.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I apologize I came on the call a little bit late.
When is the -- when do you guys actually file the next Vogtle VCM? And is it your expectation that you'll ask for a certification of an increase? Well so we just filed once so we do it every 6 months right? And so the next one will be February yes.
So you'll see then.
All the numbers look really good right now and we've been helped by some good luck.
I mean let's be clear.
When we think about this $2 billion of additional benefit that our customers are getting relative to what was originally estimated this has been a dynamite environment in which to finance big CapEx projects.
I forget Art what is our number across the system? It's like $3.5 billion of debt financed at about 3%.
About 3% for an average term of 19 years.
Yes.
I mean just think about -- and I think the estimates when we started this project were more like 6% and 7%.
Yes yes.
So we are developing a tremendous amount of value.
And when I look at just the EPC part of it forget what we're doing on capital costs we're actually under budget but we're doing great.
Research Division</strong> Yes I mean you guys had certified this at almost $6.5 billion and I know right now you're at $6.1 billion.
So even if you went back up towards the original certification it would still be a win.
I'm just wondering whether -- because you already had a current estimate of $6.2 billion if there are other things that may cause that to drift higher.
Well the big factor that would cause it to move around I think is probably schedule.
The construction is going very well.
Greg you also had the claims issue too that's still pending.
So we are waiting until that was resolved before we went back to commission with any kind of requests for an increase in the certified amount.
And recall the issues around the claim really deal with schedule.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike (sic) [Mark Barnett] with MorningStar Financial.
Research Division</strong> It's Mark.
Just a couple of quick minor details here.
Obviously the proprietary TRIG technology as you've already discussed a little bit on the call it goes back a long way.
The inclusion of the slide here I'm wondering is this going to presage maybe some further details given that you've got this partnership on the potential for this technology in terms of external revenues? Well so here's what I would think about that.
We've been very consistent we're going to remain consistent until we have a reason not to be.
But basically we think there is a terrific market for this worldwide; so does KBR.
That's why we entered into this relationship.
You just think about megawatts of need.
In the not-too-distant future China needs to add 300 000 megawatts of generation; India 100 000 megawatts of generation.
Both India and China lend themselves to the kind of low-grade coal that is perfect as a fuel resource for our TRIG technology.
Now we're not going to get all that.
We're going to get some segment out of it we believe and we look forward to that.
Until the revenues and profitability of our licensing effort become clearer we just will not have it associated with any of our projections.
So if anything shows up it will be upside number one.
And the other thing I will just remind you.
You know that Southern Company is a conservative company.
We're very proud of the fact that we along with our partners develop this technology and we think it's going to work great.
We think it'll be a solution not only for America but for the world to take advantage of this excellent fuel resource.
We are going to stick to the business we know the best.
And therefore we thought it was better to give via this contract KBR than worldwide marketing rights.
We'll still pay attention as with our research and development facility as with our engineering and construction services group the engineering oversight and further developments on the technology.
So we'll not be engaging ourselves in worldwide marketing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One more quick thing.
When we get the Q might there be any kind of reserve or something along those lines for the lawsuits that have been filed or is it still way too early? Way too early and please understand we've been very clear I think in all of this that while you cannot determine the outcome we believe that the facts are very much in our favor.
That's why we did not sell and that's why we did not -- that's why we've taken the step of filing litigation.
We've done this in a very transparent way with the independent monitor with the commission with the staff.
We feel like we are representing the interest of Georgia's customers by taking this step.
Please also understand that filing the litigation we think is a normal part of the dispute resolution process.
And that going forward we can still settle or go to some other kind of dispute resolution like arbitration if we feel like that's prudent in the future.
So this is -- people should view this as just another step in the process.
Work continues; we don't believe there'll be any material slowdown as we progress the thing.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So just a couple of questions.
First if we think about -- I don't know if Art had seen any kind of sensitivity on sales either for this year or thinking about it in the future 1% change and how that sensitivity is impacted in terms of like customer classes? Yes Steve.
Roughly if it's spread across all of our classes it's about $100 million.
If you do a 1% change in industrial sales obviously it's less about $17 million.
If it's a 1% change in your residential class it's more about $45 million.
So you spread it across them all you get obviously a bigger impact.
But that doesn't assume that you're going to also manage your expense side of the equation.
So you don't want to be just making assumptions that those kind of results and changes in sales will not directly lead to changes in net income.
Research Division</strong> Sure okay.
And just if things do remain weak I recall during the crisis you guys were able to work with your regulators on the Georgia kind of mechanism that you had as well as I recall you did something in Alabama.
Do you have some of those things that you could work on to kind of help mitigate a weaker economy if you think about it? Sure.
In fact just as you recall we put in place this mechanism that Art referred to earlier that takes into account a big change as a result of an economic slowdown or whatever else to get Georgia Power back to a place where it can operate effectively.
So we've already contemplated that we've made the adjustment in Georgia.
Because remember that's typically been a 3-year accounting order process.
If you go elsewhere across the system RSC kind of operates every year anyway; it's a formulaic approach.
Mississippi operates annually; it's a formulaic approach.
The only one that doesn't have these kinds of features will be Gulf Power.
And remember Gulf Power has a traditional kind of rate-making approach.
They filed for a rate increase last year.
They have something like a great deal of their sales -- of their profits associated -- I'm sorry revenues associated with clauses.
It's like 65% -- 60% 65%.
So it's kind of a smaller issue to Gulf Power and they're kind of small anyway.
Steve we also had the COR issue at Georgia back in 2009 that -- where we amortized some of that back to help mitigate some of the impacts that Georgia was feeling.
And I think the COR impact is as Art points out is a great example of how we worked constructively with regulators to do the right thing all the time.
So we always have an ongoing dialogue.
People should know it is not a discrete relationship.
It is a continuous relationship.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then one last question.
Just any update on the Plant Ratcliffe kind of Supreme Court reviews and timing of that? Everything is still pending.
The Sierra Club's appeal of the most recent certification order is still pending.
It's a chance to re-court.
We expect to hear from that any week now so we already expected to hear from it but just haven't heard anything yet.
Everything else our appeal to the Supreme Court is still pending.
We don't -- that particular issue is around our ability to bill the cash CWIP the order the commission gave us denying that request.
That won't be heard until sometime in mid-March.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Listen I wanted to just be clear on your comments around the economy and the uncertainty et cetera.
If I'm hearing you right you're talking more short term in nature and I believe elections et cetera should remove some of that uncertainty.
Or are there other secular issues efficiencies et cetera that you may be alluding to as well that may be causing the low-growth outlook to be slow or slower on the longer-term basis? How should I be interpreting your comments there? No I think you nailed it in your question.
Look I think what we're seeing right now is a pause in the economy and I think the economy is waiting for the uncertainty to be resolved.
Obviously the big issue facing us kind of post the election is the fiscal cliff and what's the United States going to do to get its financial integrity in order.
I think the kind of more secular change -- and I just don't know where this is -- is what's going to happen with the European Union what's going to happen with the long-term growth rate in China Brazil and other formerly growth-oriented economy.
I think those are the issues both for my work at the Federal Reserve plus the work our economists do here.
The economic uncertainty is just at an all-time high.
And I think these issues whether you believe you should cut costs or raise taxes it is clear to me that what we've got to do is adopt as a fiscal matter policies that promote growth in the economy.
I think if we do that when you look at the quality of the economic development backlog that we have I think we're poised to resume a really attractive growth rate.
But the proof will be in the pudding.
Let's see how Congress the policymakers around the United States resolve the issues related to the uncertainty and let's move forward.
Believe me we will be active in those discussions.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Separate question coming back to Mississippi for a second.
Are you comfortable there with the overall regulatory paradigm? I mean you were mentioning earlier of course we've got the CWIP issue but separately they had this ROE focus and discussion as well.
Comfortable with what's going on there and any concerns we should be aware of? Well I think you're aware of the concerns that we've had.
I think historically Mississippi has been a constructive environment in which to do business; it has been for a long time.
We were all surprised by the decision to defer the recovery of CWIP pending the resolution of the Supreme Court matters related to the certification of the project.
Now listen we're confident we believe the certificate -- the certification process of the plant once now amended will go through.
So we're very confident of that.
That surprised us.
That's frankly quite about the only negative that I can put there.
I think the folks in Mississippi the policymakers are working hard to create a way forward that will work for both Mississippi Power and its customers.
I spoke recently at Governor Bryant's Energy Summit.
And Governor Bryant I think is doing a terrific job casting as a primary economic development strategy the State of Mississippi as an energy hub.
I think he is spot on frankly and not only carrying forward but extending the good work of Haley Barbour.
Kemper County is so important to the state's future.
And I think when you think about the low-cost energy similar to a nuclear plant in terms of its reliability and costs I think it will serve Mississippi well for decades to come.
So my sense is we'll get through this rough spot and we'll move forward in a constructive way.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And last question.
Southern Power historically you guys have been telling us either $150 million to $160 million annual net income kind of business; it's clearly been running ahead of that.
I think third quarter was probably ahead as well ahead of that.
So any changes in the paradigm there or do you think that the move up in gas prices in the future that may bring it back down? How are you looking at that sort of going forward now? That's a very interesting question.
It's one we have a lot of conversation about here in Atlanta and around.
Look the earnings have been better.
My sense is they'll be better again this year as the kind of year-to-date numbers would suggest.
So they continue to do a great job.
Recall one of the big projects that was kind of a centerpiece this year has been the biomass facility at Nacogdoches Texas.
Brought that in under budget on time.
It's the world's largest bubbling bed technology North America's largest biomass facility I could go on.
But it's just a great project.
And then we've done some of these solar projects none of which are all that big.
We've put in place a kind of an appetite for us on solar about 300 megawatts over 5 years and we're just kind of being very faithful to that level of participation.
We don't want to go overboard on that.
One of the interesting ideas though that we've had is you know that our ethos as a company our business model is to put customers in the middle of everything we do and to provide clean safe reliable affordable electricity to those customers.
And that has served us so well in our integrated regulated businesses.
Likewise it has served us very well with Southern Power.
And I can tell you when I was down there for the groundbreaking of Nacogdoches we had lots of interested people from co-ops and munis in the area come to me and understand how favorable this has been to the city of Austin and wondered could we do more business.
Frankly we get that wherever we do business whether it's the Carolinas whether it's New Mexico Nevada.
And so one of the things we're thinking about is "Are there limited circumstances where we could use exactly the same model? And perhaps instead of turning down business do some business with some other co-ops and munis particularly and maybe some other IOUs." If we do let me assure you that we will follow exactly the same conservative model.
That is: long-term bilateral contracts -- contracts really in 2 segments one of which we earn a return of them return on capital on brick-and-mortar investment; the other one earning essentially a pass-through on our energy cost which is largely fuel.
So we don't believe we want to take fuel risks we won't take transmission risk and we want to have creditworthy counter-parties.
So we are thinking about maybe doing some business in some of the other areas of critical mass that we seem to be developing.
We'll see.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim von Riesemann with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on a couple of the questions that Steve and Greg and Jonathan were asking.
I know this question may be premature but can you discuss how you're thinking about the upcoming Georgia Power rate case? What the key objectives might be how the case is going to align with the IRP plan that needs to be filed in 2013? And maybe a little bit about what the regulatory strategy is there for permanent rates from Vogtle and how all the timing is aligned? Okay so let's kind of think about that in some bites.
First of all though Vogtle was progressing very well and you may note recently that Georgia as I said it just did another fuel decrease to its customers.
I think it was about 1.7-or-so percent decrease in total builds.
Recall we did a fuel decrease earlier that was roughly 6% 19% to fuel 6% of total sales so we produced fuel decreases that in fact will largely speak for a lot of the price increases we see for Vogtle.
So if you think about price increases for Vogtle you're typically in the range of about 1% a year that's already pretty well spoken for through the processes that exist in the state.
Now we will file an IRP.
Recall in I guess it's February of next year -- January -- recall too this is a very collaborative process that we follow with the commission whereby we and the staff the commission in essence will evaluate trends in demand we will jointly agree on that.
We will jointly agree on the resources necessary to meet that demand and then we will jointly agree on how best to supply those resources whether it is self-build or third-party contracts.
That has been an exceedingly effective way to think about providing the resources for Georgia in the upcoming years.
If you think about it we're building Vogtle 3 and 4 we've just finished the last of the McDonough units that we've converted from coal to gas.
Now we're over 2 550 megawatts of new gas supply.
And right here in the Atlanta area and those units are behaving beautifully.
In fact they're producing capacity greater than their nameplate rating.
We've also announced some initiatives in the solar arena in Georgia.
And my sense is when you combine that plus some other power purchase agreements we will have spoken for the capacity needs of Georgia probably through the end of the decade would be my guess.
We'll find that out in the IRP going forward.
With respect of the rate case that we will file right around the beginning of July it's way too early to say but it would argue that having spoken for Vogtle having spoken already for McDonough it would seem that the issues in the upcoming case will be similar to the issues in the last case.
That is the normal O&amp;M and CapEx associated with building the best electric system in the United States here in Georgia or in the Southeast really.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> What was weather compared to normal? $0.04 negative for the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And year-to-date? It's about $0.08 for the year-to-date period.
And it was $0.08 for the year-to-date and 13 -- we were $0.13 positive year-to-date so $0.21 negative year-over-year $0.08 versus normal.
Research Division</strong> And Art you gave an answer to Steve's question about 1%.
Were those pretax numbers were those revenue? Yes yes yes they were.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> The couple just -- I want to think about risks around authorized ROEs.
You have the Georgia Power rate case next year so authorized returns will get set during that normal TRC process.
Can you talk a little bit about how the process in Mississippi will work in terms of the ROE dock that they have kind of looking at the methodology for reviewing ROEs there? And can then you also touch on in Alabama when do they -- in the RSC process do they actually even look at authorized rates of return in that annual process or does that not happen until some other process down the road? Well I'm going to let Art.
Art was for many years the CFO of Alabama I'll let him handle that one.
Mississippi is really just an informational hearing as I understand it and it's not at all clear how that's going to go forward.
You do know that by the structure of the test mechanism they in essence go through a theoretical cost of capital calculation by the mechanism.
And then that mechanism is adjusted by a performance and Mississippi has always performed well with respect to safety customer satisfaction operational excellence et cetera.
So they've always -- they historically anyway have earned a premium to the theoretical cost of capital that it calculates so it's interesting to see how that will work together but it is not has been set it is all not clear.
Art Alabama? Yes Mike as you know when we chatted before about this the discrete conversation in Alabama occurred constantly.
There's not a specific date for review of those but those conversations take place between the staff and management on a continuing basis.
But I'll remind you in Alabama their equity ratios are lower than the industry average.
If you look at their return on invested capital it's more in the second and third quartile compared to peers rather than the top of the quartile.
So the amount of return reflected in price is not near severe when you lower the balance of equity in the equation.
And I'll also point out that Alabama ranks in the top quartile when it comes to customer satisfaction.
So it's not a one-element issue.
It's a multifaceted issue that has lots of elements to it.
And the other thing that people should just understand too this model that we have been very faithful in following -- that is to provide the highest level of financial integrity in running our business -- has served our customers exceedingly well.
And I know we've shown you in many times in the past this kind of efficient horizon curve -- where you look at cost of debt by the average life of maturities of the debt portfolios of us versus our competitors -- and frankly Southern Company all of the operating companies look terrific on that basis.
At the end of the day when you look at the decisions that our regulators make in a generally speaking a constructive business climate part of the United States there is no reason for any of our commissions to take punitive action against the company.
We are performing well in customer satisfaction and reliability in any notable measure.
And so we think we'll continue on in that vein for years to come.
Your next question comes from the line of Leslie Rich with JPMorgan.
Inc.</strong> Just wanted to ask you about Slide 16 and your coal gas comparison in the third quarter.
It looks like you continued to burn more coal than -- I mean burn more gas than coal with the gas plants continuing to run at higher capacity factors.
I'm wondering sort of as you look forward over the next 12 months sort of how you view that because you obviously dispatched on a very economical basis.
And just are you sort of maxed out on coal gas switching? Or do you think now that gas prices have come up a bit that it's -- you're going to be burning more PRB sort of how are you thinking about that and also inventory levels? Listen I think we can -- I have to look back at some prior data.
I'm going to go from memory here so hopefully I'm not wrong as I say this but we have still a great deal of optionality in our fuel mix.
So let's go through that for example.
If gas prices are cheap and coal prices are expensive we in the future -- and I think this is a 2015 number -- could take our gas-fired energy generation up to around 55% and back our coal down to around 25% is my guess round number.
If the reverse happens if for some reason gas gets very expensive and coal gets cheap I think we can take our coal up to about 45% or so and back our gas down to around 35%.
That's kind of the broad range of optionality we have going forward.
One way to think about that is to think about kind of where are the breakeven dispatch curves going forward.
So gas at $1.25 per million btu it has to fall below that before dispatch is ahead of nuclear and frankly Kemper County.
Kemper County is going to be in that same neighborhood.
When we think about PRB you kind of have gas in the range of $3 to $4 call it $3.50 somewhere in that range for gas to dispatch ahead of PRB.
So that would be sheer Miller [ph] the big units there.
And then the Central App coal.
Now one of the things that you will see is that we've been moving transitioning away from Central App to Illinois basin.
Some of that depends on how we unfold.
In the years ahead we signed a HashMac and a variety of other things.
But in fact those numbers have come down just a bit with the move more to Illinois coal.
We used to say Central App coal was kind of $6 $6.50 now with Illinois being a more important part of our future as we conform with MACT that number looks more like $5 to $6 somewhere in there per million btu.
Does that cover it for you? Inc.</strong> Well so that would sort of imply looking forward to 2013 that you'd continue to run your gas plants really hard? Yes.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then secondly just to circle back to the lower nonfuel expenses the $0.07 a share year-over-year I mean that's a really big swing.
Could you give me just a couple of examples of the kinds of things that you've been doing or do you sort of budget for normal weather? And then if it's not normal weather there's less sort of maintenance that needs to be done? To everyone's dismay at Southern I could talk about this for hours.
I'll try and be economical here.
We go through what we call a flexible budgeting system whereby we identify a financial plan based on a level of O&amp;M.
We already planned for certain normal variances of weather above and below.
So we basically find ourselves with a slug of O&amp;M that we kind of keep in reserve pending the results of third quarter weather.
We call those approved but not budgeted -- I mean they're budgeted but not approved.
I'm sorry I said that backwards.
So in other words we keep that powder dry if you will.
And so as we see weather become either mild or the other way then we turn on or off that flexible budgeting part of our program.
The other thing that's interesting about our budgeting process right now really goes to where we've gone with the generating fleet.
So recall the O&amp;M associated with the coal fleet is bigger than say with the gas fleet.
I think people would mostly get that.
So when we think about the MACT issue recall we had about 20 000 megawatts of coal.
It appears that we will maintain I don't know 12 000 to 13 000 megawatts of coal in the future.
Some of that will be through fuel switching like from -- I'm sorry from Central App to Illinois basin.
So for the remaining say 7 000 or 8 000 some of that is fuel switched to gas some of that is just retired.
As we evaluate the plants that are subject to be retired obviously we have opportunities to scale back while maintaining safety scale back some of the O&amp;M that we otherwise would dedicate to those plants but we will let their EFOR statistics rise up whereas otherwise in the past we would really be very hawkish about keeping those in perfect condition.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just to go over sales growth again what's your current projection? I think it was 1.3% at the end of the first half of the year.
That's right.
Where are we now and where do you think it's going to be for 2012 now weather-adjusted? I don't know man.
It could be somewhere between 0.5% and 1% somewhere in there 0.5%.
It just depends.
We've had some strange things happen in the third quarter -- I mean strange.
They happen regularly but like DuPont we had a major facility undergo a prolonged outage in order to retool.
Art? That's correct.
Silicon manufacturer -- silicon metal manufacturer in Alabama was down a lot in the third quarter.
They came back in the fourth and we expect them to operate in the fourth.
And another major issue that nobody thinks about anymore after Hurricane Sandy was the effects of Hurricane Isaac.
Hurricane Isaac shut down a lot of our large industrial load on the coast for periods of a week or more.
OLB [ph] and our biggest industrial customer was down for a while along with Chevron and some other major consumers of electricity.
We don't normally weather-normalize our industrial loads so you see those effects impacting some of the sales loads in the third quarter.
And some of that weather effects where they couldn't get railcars and product in.
That's correct.
It was things like that with the railroad problem as opposed to the [indiscernible] problem.
Let's look beyond industrial though.
I mean if we look at leap year the leap year impact not too many around 0.37% 0.4% approximately.
And we add that into these numbers it looks like residential commercial industrial roughly down about 1/2 -- leave industrial out but 0.5% down.
And I mean I'm just trying to get a sense as to what GDP growth has been at least what you guys are now looking at being.
You mentioned that there was some concern on the industrials.
But leaving the industrials because that's going to evolve through all the reasons you mentioned.
How should we think about what's going on here? Well Paul this a great question.
Listen we've got as much uncertainty as everybody.
I always feel like we do more homework than anybody else that I know of in terms of understanding economy and holding these customer groups.
There is -- one of the trends out of this call will be that there is a general heightened level of uncertainty in the economy.
At this point there is a tremendous amount of pent-up economic activity pending the resolution of some of these really important issues.
It is clear to me that while the year started out great it started to slow and now it has really slowed in the third quarter.
There are all of the kind of chemicals in the sea if you will for economic growth to resume.
But we've got to deal with those issues.
If we look at GDP for the third quarter I'm thinking at least my recollection is around 2%.
It came in a little bit stronger than what people had expected.
I mean is it different in the Southeast or are you talking about something that just isn't being picked up by regular GDP numbers if you follow me.
I mean I guess one of the concerns I guess that I have at least is that on the natural gas side we saw for many many many years a reduction in absolute sales growth due to basically efficiencies.
And I'm wondering whether or not we're beginning to see this on the electric side because you guys are relatively thought of as being relatively strong economically compared to the rest of the country.
In other parts of the country we've seen in some cases negative sales growth weather-adjusted for 3 years.
Yes look what we've done and in fact we ought to share this with you being interested in the call after the call the blurb we call it here but we've done a lot of research on kind of looking at really diving deeply into this notion of what's really going on with existing home sales.
In other words if you strip out all the noise on housing or who was the customer before and who is the customer now what we're finding is that from existing premises year-over-year actually it goes back something like 5 years we have found that absent kind of 2009 we have seen a continued increase in per capita usage.
Now we know that there is some small effect of energy efficiency and everything else but we think that is getting washed out by a greater electrification of the economy.
Now the ratio that we have found as a rule of thumb still works and that is electricity sales will probably be around 50% of GDP so if -- you tell me what GDP is going to do hit it by 60% that's what electricity sales will do.
Okay.
But GDP was 2% in the third quarter right? And for some reason it's not translating -- leaving out the industrial it's not translating that way for the other guys.
That's why I guess that's what I'm missing.
Paul Tom mentioned this earlier but there's lots of stuff going on that makes us believe that the third quarter numbers especially for residential are far worse than what we actually experienced.
Far better.
Well yes far better.
Excuse me.
I misspoke.
But the first issue I want to talk is weather normalization which I've always talked about as more of an art than a science.
And so when you compare quarter-over-quarter to that you're going to get some noise.
And more importantly the second issue is what Tom mentioned earlier is the fact that we're now using to estimate our kilowatt hours yet to be billed or unbilled kilowatt hours we're using our new digital platform our new metering system to provide those estimates for us which are much more accurate than our prior methods.
They can cause noise year-over-year when comparing to a year that did not utilize that.
We think this is a abnormal reflection of what's actually going on in the residential market.
But Paul I mean even as you suggest even if residential is flat and not down for the quarter there is still some really interesting issues and we'll just see how they evolve.
When we peel the onion on the effect we think there is still reasonably there will be economic growth.
And I would tend not to get distracted with quarter-over-quarter results.
When you do the kind of analysis you're thinking about which is exceedingly valid you're better off using long-term trends and I would rather focus on year-to-date results rather than a quarter-to-quarter conclusion.
Okay.
I don't want to belabor this.
I appreciate your guys' input and would love to talk to you guys further about it off the call.
But just finally on the Georgia PSC election any thoughts I mean we should see here or anything you want to share with us you being there on Ground Zero? Well look we have 2 commissioners up for reelection Stan Wise and Chuck Eaton.
We'll see.
The whole Georgia Commission has been I think very tough but very fair.
And we'll see what happens.
Your next question comes from the line of Andy Levi with Avon Capital.
Just a question actually on the storm and just kind of -- I guess you said you allocated 2 200 workers? Over 2 400.
Over 24.
How is that allocation set? Are the power companies here in this region do they kind of contract beforehand or how does that work? And also where did your -- the majority of your people go? Okay so there's a -- let me start real quick.
There's a process where for example we're part of SEE Southeast Electric Exchange mutual assurance group.
There other mutual assurance groups in the United States.
Of course there are in the Northeast New York et cetera.
Before it even hits land we plan well in advance and then what we do is start to deploy before the storm hits the resources necessary to effectuate the restoration.
I know that before Sandy hit the Northeast we had deployed something like 2 000 personnel from Southern.
Then the storm hits.
One of the things that people must understand and I've tried to be very public about this in all my Sandy -- Bloomberg and CNN and all the other stuff I've done is that assessment process is so critical when you consider what you all had faced.
And it's been very challenging snow wind rain flooding.
Some of the areas that had been impacted had been inaccessible.
And therefore without an assessment it's been very challenging to deploy in the most optimal way.
So there's been some time associated with that.
Then they are deployed to the region to fix and then there's an iteration that goes forward.
When you think about the total resources that we committed it started at around 2 000 and now around 2 400.
Our resources were deployed to Philadelphia Baltimore Washington D.C.
And pretty quickly they moved some resources up to Atlantic City.
In this iteration that I described where they fix reassess fix reassess our folks are all over the Northeast right now.
So when I get a report every morning they are in every affected area you can imagine.
I know one of the big issues our folks came in after the initial damage were an underground crews in the Con Edison area particularly in Manhattan.
So they're all over the place right now.
And do the companies up here kind of need to -- I don't need know if the word is contract but I understand the assessment aspect.
But do they have to kind of make arrangements with Southern Company beforehand that these assets will be allocated to them? Yes.
Hey I'm sorry I should have answered that one.
Yes so what happens is every -- like the Southeastern Electric Exchange mutual assurance group has essentially a contract in place that exactly calls for the reimbursement and the safety conditions and a variety of other things conditions under which people will affect the restoration.
So among the different mutual assurance groups they basically adopt the same process so that anyone requesting help will pay for the help that they receive and that work will be undertaken in the manner in which we are used to providing it.
So basically you need to be part of these mutual system programs.
Well but everybody is.
And then the mutual assistance programs work with each other when the damage occurs outside.
There's been plenty of SEE resources that have been put into non-SEE regions.
And I'm just trying to understand why your men didn't come further north at first.
That was the original deployment and I can assure you they went north as soon as they were needed.
When the reassessments were done.
Remember that assessment is the big issue.
And once the assessments were performed and the re-prioritization of the areas of critical need were performed people were moved in in the most effective safest manner possible.
And is there a cost to the utilities up here to be part of these mutual assistance programs? Nothing more than overhead costs people associated with the administering the group.
Your next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan with Visium.
Can I just -- I have 2 kind of like things I want your comments one on the macro one more towards Southern Company.
Can I just ask you -- this my opinion -- I think so the utilities have shortcut themselves by going to these programs where you share employees and they have cut their own resources of employees.
And hence I feel that the U.S.
is I guess getting more hurricanes and things and all that.
But the amount of interruptions we have versus a #1 you can call it or Tier 1 country is horrible at least versus other Tier 1 countries.
And I don't know I think so this is my just feeling.
I think that the EEI has to think of some way to get this thing up.
It's just occurring -- so much reoccurring and we lose so much output because of this.
And the service is -- the breakouts for the time period that they're out is just not acceptable for a country like U.S.
I don't know what it is.
Either the infrastructures is really bad or you guys have cut through so many people that they can't respond in a manner that it takes 2 weeks for service to come back.
To me in a country like U.S.
that's just not acceptable under any scenario.
Yes Ashar look I absolutely get the fact that a lot of people in the Northeast -- I'm originally from New Jersey myself -- are really disadvantaged and really going through a lot of pain right now.
I completely understand that.
The -- I would just dispute the notion about the state of our electric network.
The electric network in the United States is the best in the world and the data supports it.
We have to continue to focus on that and we have to deal with different regulatory models frankly that deal with it.
We in the Southeast at least I can speak from Southern we spend nearly $1 billion year on these issues.
And our reliability the statistics are SAIDI and SAIFI that one deals with duration of outages and one deals with frequency of outages.
We're on now more than a decade-long track record of performance and the system works great down here.
We get buffeted with storms and I think what we're dealing with right now in the Northeast and I know it's really hard being in the middle of it.
And please understand I certainly understand what you guys are going through having gone through it a lot down here.
It's just that that storm the misnomer of the perfect storm level 1 hurricane being hit with a cold front that produced snow wind rain flooding and an unprecedented amount of damage in a very highly concentrated area of population has just produced some unique circumstances.
It is worthy always in evaluating lessons learned from these circumstances and understanding how we can serve customers better; that is always something we should do.
But please understand you're dealing with an immense storm unique circumstance unusual part of the United States.
We'll get through it.
And when we learn something new we will apply it in the future.
Tom I get that.
It's very unusual but I'd still think that the workforce cuts in this mutual assistance programs in which the utilities have tried to shuttle this this is just not working okay? This is I think so what's hurting us the customers.
It's that you have these programs where you have kind of people coming in from all over the thing and not local people.
Like I have a truck coming in from KCP&amp;L.
How does a KCP&amp;L truck guy know about Manhattan? I think that's like waste of resources and efficiencies okay? He cannot have a good view of how the underground network at KCPL truck knows about what they would do in Manhattan.
I mean it's just like you throw these guys around and then okay whether they have the resources to get them back on will just tackle with time.
Just going to the second question.
Based on what you gave us for the fourth quarter what are we -- or is Southern Georgia Power going to earn in 2012 can you share with us? Southern Power will earn...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Georgia Power Georgia Power.
GP.
Okay.
Well we outlined a range of $0.38 to $0.40.
So Southern Company will be $2.62 to $2.64 within that range from our annual guidance.
About 12.5%.
Yes.
And for Georgia Power it's roughly 12.5% -- excuse me from a Southern perspective and about 12.5% ROE.
It's both.
It's 12.5% for both Georgia and Southern.
Southern.
And then Tom just to remind us when does that mechanism hit or when can we -- is it like at 9.5% or 10.5% that we can go and get help under that mechanism? 10.25% is the bottom of the range.
So 10.25%.
So if you can go below 10.25% we can go and ask for help? Yes.
Okay so we have about 2 percentage points based on -- right now of cushion right now that we have? We gave you a corporate return there.
So remember that Georgia corporate return is different than the allowed range.
That's 10.25% to 12.5% with a midpoint -- I think they reset the midpoint at 11.15% last time.
Okay.
So the difference between the corporate and the retail is what like 150 basis points or something? Yes more like 100.
More like 100.
So it's more like 11% than 10%? Yes.
And your next question comes from the line of Vedula Murti with CDP.
Let's see I apologize if you addressed this earlier but going back to Plant Ratcliffe.
If you don't get the interim increase next year and then you have to put the full plant into rates in 2014 from I think previous meetings with you guys I want to make sure that I'm clear about this is is that unlike in the past where you would take a plant like that and maybe be able to do a couple-of-year phase-in with deferrals and things of that nature that the accounting rules no longer permit that such that you would under that scenario need to put the full plant into rate base or ask for rates in one fell swoop and that to the extent that rates would be -- that it would be considered excessive that you'd have to -- possibly have to come back again as opposed to having the deferral mechanism and that type of thing.
Am I correct about that? So yes.
So Vedula part of it is and part of it isn't.
In general you're correct let me say that.
Now the part that I would agree with is I think Vogtle 1 and 2 may have been the last ones under the old accounting rules that you can do phase-in accounting essentially if that's what you're referring to.
There may be other ways to attack the problem.
In fact Art and I met recently with Moses Feagin -- he's the CFO of Mississippi Power -- Ed Day; they're regulatory people.
We meet regularly on this project.
We always call this kind of a "What's in the house" The "what" are building the plant and houses how we're working with the regulators and with customers and all that.
And in fact I just went down and talked to the customer group of Mississippi about some of these things.
I think we have some constructive approaches that we will work with the commission in which to be able to handle this plus all the other issues at Mississippi and we're evaluating those options as we speak.
I'd rather not speculate on those because it's just premature number one and we really want to kind of handle that in a very fulsome way with our regulators before we say too much about it in public.
Okay and then secondarily given that you're in front of the Supreme Court for CWIP can you just remind me what the issue is there why it's in court and kind of at this point in time kind of like your level of confidence that CWIP would be permitted such that would help alleviate some of the issues in '14 or are you like maybe not expecting that to come through? Sure.
So the Supreme Court is dealing with -- actually it's in the Chancery Court now.
It's dealing with an issue related to the certification.
It's not dealing with CWIP.
It's dealing with certification of the project.
We believe what's going to happen -- I mean I believe so write this down or whatever.
For whatever it's worth I believe we're going to be upheld at the Chancery Court.
If we are the Sierra Club could appeal to the Supreme Court.
Now the issue related to CWIP has not been contested as a legal matter right now.
The commission voted to defer putting CWIP in place until the matters related to the certification of the plant were concluded okay? It's at the Chancery Court we've got a good decision there.
It goes to the Supreme Court.
If we get a good decision there we put CWIP in place at least that's what the regulators say.
That's where we are.
As a practical matter you must understand that by the timing of whatever is going on with the Chancery Court and then it would have to be resolved in the Supreme Court we're going to be in service we believe May of 2014.
So as a matter of prudence we are planning for the potential of not even having CWIP for Mississippi Power Plant Ratcliffe.
But when we think about 2013 though irrespective of whether you have CWIP or not it will not be an earnings issue for 2013 because you'll simply capitalize otherwise.
So simply it's a cash issue but not an earnings issue? Precisely.
We are booking AFUDC.
And we have been very clear -- in fact the commission has been very clear I should say about their support for the project.
I mean I think we've read on maybe the last earnings call specific language out of press releases that 2 of the 3 commissioners gave.
And I've even spoken to one of the commissioners there.
They remain resolute in their support of the project.
They just didn't feel that it was appropriate to put CWIP in place while matters relating to the certificate were still being considered.
But it sounds like though that they are very supportive of CWIP also as a means of managing the rate trajectories while that they have a very clear understanding of that.
Yes I think so.
I absolutely say so.
But if we defer putting CWIP in place until we resolve all the matters relating to certificate we may have an in-service plant before those matters are concluded.
And your next question comes from the line of Dan Jenkins with the State of Wisconsin.
Just first a couple of follow-ups related to the demand -- customer demand issues.
I was wondering what the customer growth is you're seeing? Is that in line with what you expected or is there -- or has that been slower as well? Yes Dan.
We thought we'd get about 19 000 new customers this year.
And so far through the first half we got all of those.
We didn't add any great amounts in the third quarter but we still retain those.
So we're ahead of where we thought we'd be from a customer perspective.
Okay.
And then on the industrial side what sectors or what indicators are you kind of looking at to see if that's more persistent or have you talked -- I know you occasionally have a roundtable of manufacturers and so forth that you talk to.
Have you done that? Yes we didn't do that this quarter.
We do it every 6 months but this is the off quarter for that.
But automotive is doing very strong and it has continued -- expected to be strong.
And obviously the suppliers and other industries that fabricated metals that support that so we expect that strength to continue and that's on the fact that the age of existing inventory is so old.
I think the average age of automobiles today is like 11 years.
So that is expected to continue.
The ISM Indexes are positive.
They had been negative slightly in the second quarter but now they've turned slightly positive.
So that is a good indicator and we've seen some indicators lately that there's more strength in the economy.
Housing is beginning to come off the bottom but it's not -- it's coming off such a low level it's not really going to make a whole lot of difference in the numbers that we're looking at.
Really it's the export-related industries like chemicals and primary metals that have been impacted the most.
And we think as we look around what's going on in the export markets it's the global economy that's beginning to slow a bit.
Hey Dan one more thing.
Art mentioned this is our off quarter for doing the customer touches.
Every operating company this quarter I think held a customer convocation where they bring 100 of their top customers whatever end [ph] and I know I visited all of Gulf Mississippi and Georgia.
I know Alabama did one also.
So we stay in touch with our customers on a real-time basis all the time.
Okay.
Then I had a couple of questions just on your Slide 17 which is the financing plan.
And are those primarily add issuances or does that include your equity issuance for those projections? What year are you talking about Dan? Well for both -- for all 3 '12 '13 '14? Well we talked about equity issuances and the fact that we're actually repurchasing shares there so we don't expect to issue any new equity this year or in 2013.
We do plan on raising about $700 million of new equity in 2014 again to support the capital program that we have in play.
We've got about roughly $800 million of additional refinancing opportunities in the fourth quarter that we're hopeful to take advantage of.
And then you can see the debt issuances in '13 and '14 I think they're roughly equally distributed about $3 billion each.
And then on your note there at the bottom about potential DOE Loans is that over '13 through '15 or does -- because it says over the next 3 years I just want to clarify? Well we're still negotiating those particular terms and conditions on the loans.
And as soon as we're able to close those we would begin to draw on the loan guarantees.
But I wouldn't look for anything in 2012.
I think 20 -- early 2013 would be a better date for the likelihood of that.
Okay.
And then the last thing I was curious about is you also have a note there that you're evaluating some callable debt for refunding and I think you could give a little more color on what acute problems are on those and what the criteria would be for you to call that.
Yes Dan I don't have those.
We can get back to you with that information as to specific issues.
But roughly it's about $800 million in issuances at Alabama Georgia and Mississippi.
At this time there are no further questions.
Sir are there any closing remarks? Yes just briefly.
Look thank you so much for being with us.
I know this was a long call.
A lot of interesting topics to talk about.
And please understand too as a matter of empathy I know you are all going through a lot of hardship right now.
Our hearts go out to you.
I guarantee you the industry is working as hard as it can to get the power back safely and as efficiently as possible.
We'll continue that effort until every last one person has their power back.
Thanks very much.
Enjoying being with you today.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the Southern Company Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Kimita and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Southern Company Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
(Operator Instructions).
After the speaker's remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.<br><br>I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dan Tucker Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Planning.
Please go ahead Kimita.
Welcome to the Southern Company Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
Joining me this morning are Tom Fanning Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Company; and Art Beattie Chief Financial Officer.<br><br>Let me remind you that we will make forward-looking statements today in addition to providing historical information.
There are various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements including those discussed in our Form 10-K and subsequent filings.<br><br>In addition we will present non-GAAP financial information on this call.
Reconciliations to the applicable GAAP measure are included in the financial information we released this morning as well as the slides for this conference call.
To follow along during the call you can access the slides on our Investor Relations website at www.southerncompany.com.
In addition these slides are now available to download or to print.<br><br>We plan to cover a lot on today’s call.
Tom will provide an update on the Company’s five strategic priorities along with a few highlights of our 2012 operations.
Art will then provide an overview of our 2012 financial results an economic outlook on our 2013 sales forecast highlights of our latest capital expenditure and financing plans and finally our earnings guidance and dividend objectives.
After closing remarks from Tom we’ll move to Q&amp;A.
As always our goal will be to engage in a full and open discussion but we also want to be respectful of your time therefore based on feedback we’ve received from many of you 2012 was an outstanding year for Southern Company.
As we move into 2013 and beyond I’d like to provide you with an update of our five strategic priorities.
The first priority is excel at the fundamentals.
First and foremost I want to commend our employees for one of our safest years on record.
Nothing is more important than the wellbeing of our employees which requires constant focus and an unwavering commitment that we will return each one of them home to their families in good health at the end of each workday.
While we were not perfect in this regard in 2012 I’m very proud of our employee’s commitment to our target zero safety philosophy.<br><br>We also recorded another year of outstanding operational results.
The peak season equivalent forced outage rate for our fossil hydro generation fleet has been the leader in the industry for six years running and eight of the last nine.
We have also continued our superior performance in transmission and distribution reliability and our customers continue to benefit from our trend of improvement over the last decade.<br><br>We continued the ongoing transformation in our generation mix generating more energy from natural gas than coal for the first time in our history largely as a result of our diverse portfolio and the ability to respond to low gas prices.
Our customers benefited from approximately $1 billion in fuel savings as compared with 2011.<br><br>Operational performance along with our strong commitment to service resulted in top quartile rankings for customer satisfaction for all four of our regulated utilities in 2012.
All of these operational accomplishments are evidence of Southern Company excelling at the fundamental.
But this priority is a broader objective and indicated by any of these metrics.
In fact each of the other four priorities I’ll discuss is an extension of this first priority.<br><br>The second priority is achieving success with our major construction projects specifically Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 and The Kemper Project both of which are continuing to progress in an outstanding manner.
While projects of this scale and magnitude always face unforeseen challenges we continue to demonstrate our ability to constructively manage those issues and achieve a favorable outcome.
Since our receipt of the first ever combined construction and operating licenses from the NRC in February 2012 significant progress has been made on both the units with construction now approximately one-thirds complete.<br><br>Specific accomplishments include a completing of the unit 3 containment vessel bottom head.
40% completion of the unit 3 cooling tower and 90% completion of the unit 4 containment vessel bottom head.
We have also begun [assembly] of the unit four condenser.
In addition on Tuesday the NRC issued no objection letter in response to our preliminary amendment request.
This enables final work to be completed prior to the pouring of basemat concrete.
We intend to pour concrete following the expected issuance of the license amendments later this quarter.<br><br>We are anticipating the Georgia Public Service Commission response to the seventh Vogtle construction monitoring report on February 19 and expect to file the eighth construction monitoring report in late February.
Meanwhile the Kemper project is now 35% complete and remains on track for its May 2014 commercial operation date.
To date approximately $2.5 billion have been spent on the project.
The plant is scheduled to begin to start up activities this summer with first fire going to the [CTs] in June and the first gasifier heat up taking place in December.
Reliable SIM gas is expected to began flowing into the CTs in February 2014.<br><br>As many of you are aware Mississippi Power signed an agreement with the Mississippi Public Service Commission last week that includes a procedural schedule and framework for cost recovery for the Kemper project.
This settlement demonstrates once again our long standing practice of engaging with regulators to achieve constructive dilution and provides a greater level of transparency on cost recovery for this project.
We held a separate analyst call regarding this settlement last Friday.
A replay and related documents can be found on our investor relations website.<br><br>As an update since that call Mississippi made its first filing under the settlement agreement this part Friday.
The company asked for $172 million in rate relief which represents a 21% increase in customer bills.
If approved we expect those rates to be implemented as early as April 2013.
Also the legislation permitting securitization and multiyear rate stabilization has been sponsored by the chairs of the house of public utilities committee and the senate energy committee.
Both bills have been referred and passed out of their respective committees earlier today.
We look forward to monitoring their progress over the next few weeks.<br><br>Overall we continue to anticipate that Vogtle units 3 and 4 and the Kemper project will benefit our customers with clean safe reliable and affordable energy for decades to come.
The third priority involves promoting sensible national energy policy.
This is an area that is especially important right now with the fiscal issues the country is facing and the potential for economic recovery on the horizon.
We have seen some progress in this area recently with the December passage of a bill that preserved a rational approach for dividend and capital gains taxes.
A discussion in which we were particularly active.<br><br>This development should help maintain our ability to attract capital for future energy infrastructure investments but more work remains to be accomplished.
And we will continue to have an active voice in those debates.
We will continue to argue for a balanced approach to energy resources an emphasis on energy innovation through proprietary research and development and the importance of restoring America’s financial integrity.
All for the benefit of the customers we serve.
The fourth priority is promoting smart energy.
As you know we achieved a major milestone in 2012 the completion of 4.4 million smart meter installations in Georgia Alabama and Florida.
We believe however that the concept of smart energy involves more than just the building of a smart grid.
It’s a much broader concept that also includes generation transmission distribution and the beyond the meter uses of electro technologies.
In fact it’s really more than all of that.
It’s really about energy innovation in the ways in which we can use technology to help drive better service and reliably for our customers.
We will continue to dedicate ourselves towards achieving that outcome.<br><br>The fifth priority and it’s really the foundation of our business is about valuing and developing our people.
We will continue to drive performance and accountability in 2013 while also continuing our emphasis on succession planning and cross training.
Over the past two years we have transferred some 700 employees across system lines we had strong 2012 results for both the fourth quarter and the full year.
For the fourth quarter of 2012 we earned $0.44 per share compared to $0.30 per share in the fourth quarter of 2011.
For the full year 2012 we earned $2.70 per share compared to $2.57 per share in 2011.
Our full year 2012 results include a $21 million net benefit or $0.02 per share recorded during the second quarter of 2012 for an insurance recovery associated with the 2009 Mirant bankruptcy settlement.
Excluding this item full year 2012 earnings were $2.68 compared with $2.57 per share for 2011.<br><br>As a reminder our earnings per share guidance for 2012 was $2.58 to $2.70 and our adjusted results were in the top end of that range.
Several factors affected our year-over-year results for 2012.
Two of the most significant drivers were the weather and our ability to respond to it as reflected in our successful effort to improve operating efficiencies in our business units.<br><br>Weather in 2012 for our service territory was milder than normal across most of the year which had a negative impact of $0.11 per share.
Weather in 2011 was quite the opposite driving a positive $0.09 per share impact.
This means that weather had a negative $0.20 per share impact year-over-year.
Largely offsetting this impact was reduced nonfuel O&amp;M for our traditional operating companies which drove a positive $0.11 per share contribution for 2012 as compared to 2011.<br><br>The other significant driver for 2012 as compared to 2011 was retail revenue effects for our traditional operating companies which contributed a positive $0.22 per share.
In our slides we have provided a summary of all the year-over-year EPS drivers for 2012.
We have also included drivers for the fourth quarter in the appendix for your reference.<br><br>Turning now to a discussion of our retail sales results for 2012.
Total weather normal retail sales for the full year grew 0.4% over 2011 and 1.7% for the fourth quarter.
Industrial sales grew at 0.2% for the full year 2012.
After a weak third quarter fourth quarter industrial sales grew 1.2% over the fourth quarter of 2011.
During the fourth quarter of 2012 six of our top seven industrial segments reflected energy sales growth over the same period in 2011.
Chemicals our largest segment grew 2% for the quarter.<br><br>Other highlights for the fourth quarter include automotive manufacturing with energy sales growth of 7% petroleum refining with 6% and lumber with 9%.
This expansion in fourth quarter energy usage was supported by 3% year-over-year growth in manufacturing jobs twice the national rate and 1.4% growth in total employment in our geographic footprint.
We ended 2012 with 23 000 additional residential customers.
This helped drive weather-normal growth of 1.1% in residential sales our strongest annual growth in that sector since the recession began.<br><br>While our fourth quarter numbers reflect the benefit of additional customers they also reflect the expect reversal of the year-over-year revenue anomalies to which we alluded in our last earnings call.
As a reminder we explained that Georgia Power has refined its methodology for calculating unbilled sales using smart meter data.
Which provides greater accuracy compared to previous years in which the process required more estimates.<br><br>As we peel back the numbers and look across our operating companies we are very encouraged by what we see in the residential sector with overall growth of 1.1% in 2012 about half of which is accounted by customer growth and the rest of increases in usage indicative of a strengthening economy.
Despite promising trends in industrial residential sales -- in industrial and residential sales our commercial sales had remained essentially flat on a weather-normal basis.
From an economic development standpoint the potential project pipeline in our service territories remained robust.<br><br>The current projection includes more than 300 potential projects represents up to 40 000 jobs and $9 billion in capital investment.
The recent announcement of General Motors adding more than 1000 highly skilled IT jobs in Atlanta for its new IT service center is evidence of the type of projects our jurisdictions pursue.
This announcement adds to a string of 1000 plus job announcement in 2012 that included major companies like Airbus Caterpillar Ingalls Shipbuilding and Baxter International.
In fact since the fourth quarter of 2010 we have seen a total of ten such announcements representing nearly $6 billion in capital expenditures.<br><br>However many companies continue to delay final decisions on expansions and relocations until Congress further resolves looming fiscal issues.
These conditions which were noted during our last earnings call continue to persist despite congressional action in December on income dividend and capital gains taxes.
Earlier this month we re-engaged with our economic round table participants.
As a reminder this group consists of several regional economists and executives from a handful of our largest customers.
The round table participants help to validate the observations we glean from our fourth quarter sales results and the assumptions we made in our 2013 forecast which includes forecasted GDP growth of approximately 2%.<br><br>Most of the economists believe that most of this growth will be driven by the higher than 2% growth in the second half of 2013 offsetting what is likely to be a slow start for 2013 while Congress contemplates its fiscal issues.
Most outlooks include an assumption for an improved global economy in 2013 which could positively affect exports out of our region.
Industrial production is seen as improving with an emphasis on business oriented goods.
Participants also observed that housing markets in the region are continuing to rebound with foreclosures decreasing and inventories of developed lots falling towards replacement levels.<br><br>These trends along with continued positive migration into the region bode well for continued residential customer growth in our markets.
Finally our round table participants were cautious in their outlook for the commercial sector but do see growth emerging particularly in the private sector.
That brings us to a forecast of total retail sales for 2013 which we are projecting at 1%.
This forecast is usually the midpoint of a range of potential economic scenarios that result in sales growth of between 0.7% and 1.3%.<br><br>Industrial sales growth is projected to be 2% for 2013.
This growth rate is reflective of previously announced industrial expansions as well as a continuation of some of the increased activity we saw in the fourth quarter of 2012.<br><br>Commercial sales growth is projected to be 0.5% while residential sales are expected to grow at 0.6%.
Our residential customer growth assumptions for 2013 are consistent with our 2012 results of 23 000 new customers.<br><br>Now I’d like to update you on our latest capital expenditure forecast and our financing plan.
Our three year forecast for capital expenditures total $16.5 billion.
As in previous years the largest component of our forecast is maintenance which totals $4.2 billion for the three year period.
Environmental compliance spending including our capital cost to comply with the MATS rule is also significant at $3.6 billion.<br><br>Of the $2.4 billion three year total CapEx for Southern Power approximately $2 billion is allocated as placeholders for potential acquisitions for new self-built projects that fit Southern Power’s rigid investment criteria including a requirement for long term contracts with credit-worthy counterparties.<br><br>These placeholders contemplate additional solo projects primarily in the southwestern United States and efficient natural gas generation projects which are a prominent part of Southern Power’s portfolio.<br><br>As mentioned in our last earnings call we are exploring opportunities to apply our low risk business model in other regions of the country where co-ops municipals and perhaps even other investor owned utilities would benefit from securing long term capacity through bilateral agreements.<br><br>Moving now to our financing plans our forecast assumes long term security issuances of $9 billion for 2013 to 2015.
This financing plan does not assume any refunding or refinancing of existing securities something we have done extensively over the past few years to lower the average cost of our portfolio to 3.8% while lengthening the average maturity to 15 years.<br><br>We continue to target a consolidated equity ratio of approximately 44%.
Based on the capital expenditure forecast of our traditional operating companies alone we do not anticipate any equity needs for the three year period.
To the extent Southern Power finds projects that meet its rigorous investment criteria we could need as much as $300 million in any one year.<br><br>Now I’d like to share our earnings guidance for 2013.
For 2013 we are establishing an annual guidance range of $2.68 to $2.80 which represents a growth rate of approximately 4% over our 2012 EPS guidance range and encompasses numerous planning scenarios for normal variances in weather the economy and operating expenses.
Our long term earnings growth rate is 4% to 6% represented by a range extrapolated from the top and bottom of our 2013 annual guidance.<br><br>This slight revision in our long term growth rate is consistent with the significant reduction we’ve seen in environmental compliance capital which has been further reduced in our latest update to reflect the longer compliance horizon for potential coal ash and water rules and the cumulative effect of slow economic growth over the past few years.<br><br>One final note on our earnings outlook.
Our first quarter 2013 earnings per share estimate is $0.51.
As most Southern Company investors know our common dividend has been a key component of our value proposition for decades.
2012 marked the 11th year in a row that our dividend was increased a practice that continued even during the difficult economic times of just a few years ago.<br><br>We have always taken the long term view of dividends and recognized that the informational content of our policy around dividends and actions is important.
Supported by the earnings growth assumed in our guidance Art.
I am always proud and almost never surprised by our ability to deliver superior results.
For more than a decade now Southern Company has maintained a singular steadfast commitment to a low risk customer focused business model that in turn has resulted in an outstanding track record of operational and financial performance.<br><br>Our ability to sustainably deliver clean safe reliable and affordable electricity continues to be the foundation for our success.
We maintain that same focus for Southern Power remaining committed to a low risk business model that deliver exceptional value to shareholders.
As we do with our traditional operating companies we keep it very simple with Southern Power.
In short we require Southern Power to first sign long-term bilateral contract second partner with creditworthy counterparties primarily co-ops and municipals and third take no or minimal fuel or transmission risk.<br><br>Sticking to this model has produced solid results for Southern Power since it was formed in 2001 and has kept that business unit poised to deliver continued value and growth going forward.
Our ultimate objective is to deliver superior risk adjusted total shareholder return.
Over the last decade this has been driven by strong earned returns for our traditional operating companies steadily growing cash flow and earnings at Southern Power stable earnings per share growth and finally a sustainable growing dividend.<br><br>All of this while maintaining the best overall financial integrity and credit ratings in the industry.
In today's uncertain world none of in this industry know what challenges may lie ahead.
Southern Company has demonstrated a track record of anticipating future challenges and managing them successfully for the benefit of our customers and our investors.
We appreciate your interest in Southern Company and we take seriously our obligation to build successfully for the future.<br><br>We are now ready to take your questions.
So operator we will now take the first question.
I guess when I look at your earnings growth forecast for the next several years as articulated by the growth rate your growth rate you know the high end is [plenty lower] you are at 4% to 6% versus what you thought you could do on a multiyear basis off of last year’s base starting which was 4% to 7%.
And I know a lot of stuff moves around in your CapEx forecast where you are spending money how you are financing it.
But if you could summarize what are the key factors that have caused you to reduce the high-end of the growth rate for us it was simple.
What we said last year -- I know we got a lot of questions before that how do you hit 7% growth year-over-year-over-year.
And it really dealt with the outcome on the MATS compliance.
Remember last year and even the year’s before we were projecting with the proposed MATS rule something like 17 bag houses.
As a result of the final rule recall there were like 11 major segments of comments that were filed by the EEI that we were influential in.
One of those dealt with schedule ten of them dealt with some technical issues that were critically important.
And as a result of the resolution of it at least four of those ten it’s caused us not to build 17 baghouses but 4.<br><br>There were other corresponding changes but the net effect is that CapEx over the three year period is less than what we have projected.
The other thing that is in our CapEx that you will notice is that we have pushed out CapEx associated with ash and water.
So we’ll see how that resolves itself probably five years let me deal with your O&amp;M question first.
If you look over the last three or four years including Southern Power net income.
You may note that in 2012 we had our best year ever earning net income at $175 million.
We did have one downturn that was in ’10 and that was really associated with the downturn in the economy.
So that explains that.
Yeah we are bullish for Southern Power.
They have this wonderful I think business model that we’ve replicated to have a risk profile similar to our traditional operating companies whereby we have a long term bilateral contract credit-worthy counterparties little or no fewer transmission risks.
I think that works wonderfully.<br><br>We think frankly we’ve been turning down business kind of outside the Southeast and think that we’re willing to consider some projects outside the southeast but which meet our rigorous business model.
Frankly we think this is a gap that we can help fill in some of the deregulated markets particularly in the near term Texas and MISO.
So let’s just see what happens there.
Otherwise we’ve been reasonably active in the renewable space.
So you’ve noticed our announcements on solo projects.
We’ve done the biomass deal Paul Inc.</strong><br><br>When I look at your again going back to your ’13 guidance if I look at 2012 you reported 268 and then you told us that weather versus normal hurt you by about $0.11.
So on a weather-normalized basis you would have been around 279 if my math is right.
So your ’13 guidance 268 to 280 gets at best you are flat and it could be down if you take the midpoint or lower.
I know Art talked about O&amp;M but is there anything else that’s causing assuming normalized weather Ali again we talked a lot in the last call about the uncertainty around the economic outcomes in ’13 and we are still allowing for I guess some of that downside effect.
Because there is still a lot of unknowns out there.
There is still a lot of people on the sidelines waiting for signals to move ahead.
And that has nothing to do with you have added back weather to the number without considering what we would have done with O&amp;M.
And that facts are we cut a drastic amount of O&amp;M in 2012 in order to offset that weather impact.
And so you can't make the single assumption that your earnings would have been if weather had been normal think about it.
We improved earnings by $0.11 an we had headwinds of year-over-year weather of $0.20.
So we have kind of been through this before I think.
We do manage our O&amp;M based on the strength of the system based on weather.
Also with the advent of weather related revenue we take advantage too in essence fix the roof while the sun is out.
And actually [add to] our maintenance.
The evidence that this all works is borne by the fact that our operational performance in terms of our generation fleet in terms of our transmission distribution in terms of our customer satisfaction numbers Inc.</strong><br><br>Okay.
And Tom if I go and take it a little bit further does in your assumptions you have assumed 1% weather-normalized sales growth kind of mid-point for ’13.
Now as I recall the old equation that equates to about $0.08 or $0.09 of earnings incrementally in ’13.
So it looks to me that it’s all coming back to the cost side going back Art you talked quite about the comparisons.
Is that fair I mean because you are getting the weather-normalized sales growth in there and yet again be they economic be they weather be whatever.
This notion of value on counting Southern as one of the handful of companies they follow is having an earnings predictability score of 100%.
But we can never predict the future.
We have been able to provide for earnings per share growth over the years that is regular predictable sustainable.
And that strategy has enabled us to have a dividend policy that likewise is regular I think there is another element there as well.
I mean you think about economic growth we certainly didn’t get the weather-normal sales growth we expected in ’12.
So you are starting from a lower base there.
And our growth rate around the economy and our sales growth continues to be less than historical levels.
So until we get back all of our segments back into the full engagement Inc.</strong><br><br>Understood.
Tom I wish you guys could see how we obsessively prepare for these calls and we really work on our language and try – we really struggled with what our language should be about our expectations and I forget what we said we were optimistically cautious this time.
Listen we are seeing signs of recovery here.
While we did he see a flattening in the last half of '12 of industrial sales when we look at our economic development backlog and we have – think about this only 0.3% of manufacturing facilities employ 1 000 people or more but Southeast over the last two years has gotten 10 of those and in fact we've gotten five recently and some of those could be significant.<br><br>Airbus has 1 000 people direct employees but we think 4 000 indirect.
You add on top of that Caterpillar and Baxter and Ingalls and a variety of other things GM IT workers and we're starting to see I think in the residential and the customer growth numbers the fact that we are adding jobs in the Southeast.
Look we could be conservative here.
I'll admit that.
But let me give you one more comment on the fiscal side.
When we gave you the comment in October on that call I have to compliment our economic forecasting guys and the marketing people at Southern that are very close to their customers.
I think we were right on the money with what happened in the economy in the Southeast and I feel good kind of about where we are now.
I think the issues – remember we talked about uncertainty related to fiscal issues and the fiscal cliff and all that.
We did avoid the fiscal cliff in a so-called way but I would argue what we really did was a tax patch.
It was helpful and certainly helpful to our industry and any dividend related investment but we still have fiscal issues to deal with.<br><br>The constructive kind of evolution of that discussion really goes to the notion I think that Congress will not use the national debt ceiling as hostage in these deliberations.
Rather moving to a more constructive approach of proposing solutions for example that are sensible like requiring the Senate to come up with a budget.
So we still have big issues but I think the issues are being handled in a more constructive manner.
And I think therefore our kind of color on where we believe the economy is headed is slightly more bullish than we were say the near term – the Greg Gordon answer was exactly the right answer.
How we got to 7% before was building a lot of bag houses with 17.
It was that kind of CapEx environment because we were successful in arguing some of the technical issues on HAP MACT for the benefit of our customers.
We're not going to spend as much CapEx complying with MATS and therefore because we're deploying less capital the growth rate drops on the top side from 7 to 6 but the fundamentals of our business remain strong.
Who knows what happens outside the three-year period? And recall the CapEx associated with ash and with 316B and a variety of those issues are really out of this three-year period.
So the presumption as you're making it are in the next three-year period.
We'll only comment on the three year period we see ahead.
Look I think the fundamentals for our business are exceedingly strong.
And I think the cards we have while we all have challenges but I mean it is a little slower.
When you think about kind of our focus is one either renewables and that has been where the renewables are desert Southwest largely a little bit in Texas otherwise gas-fired generation.
When you look at I think some of the flaws of the deregulated markets the so called organized markets they have not been able to build within those market structures long-term capacity commitments.
We think we have demonstrated success in a business model which permits those kinds of investments to occur.
So we see some attractive markets available.<br><br>Southern Power has brought some of those deals back to us and we have kind of said no we like where we are.
The question we have been asking ourselves over the past year or so is kind of a little closer view of what types of projects you would be looking at what regions Kit it would be similar to what we have been doing.
Southern Power’s capacity is something like 95% gas-fired.
So it’s going to be combined cycles maybe some CT.
And the other thing I would just add to you when we think about the Southern Power strategy this is not a significant contributor in the next year or two or three.
Rather our strategy here positions us well a long term.
To say it another way Mark it’s obviously going to be beyond the three-year window.
Does that mean that you are not currently participating in any RFPs I don’t want to comment on anything they are doing from a commercial standpoint.
I mean in terms of participating with RFPs and everything else if you just look at the trajectory of net income in the package that we have given you I would follow if I were doing planning assumptions guys.
I apologize if I missed this but the – I noticed that your growth – I was wondering whether that 0.6% sales growth for GDP was still the case with your 2013 sales growth forecast and if I am – if it is let me add one thing.
It’s just kind of interesting (inaudible).
There's been great interest in net of energy efficiency are we still seeing consumption growth and in fact we are.
We've done more science on that work that we showed a lot of you all in October or I guess it was November the financial conference.
And in fact what we're seeing is for the Southeast anyway energy efficiency has almost no influence on the consumption of our customers.
88% or so of usage can be explained by either the income growth of our customers the price of our product and weather.
If you account for those three things we see a growth in square footage per person with the residential sales growth does seem very strong in the fourth quarter and I'm sorry if I missed this again why was it so strong in the fourth quarter? Was it because of the employment figures you were talking about? I wasn't clear on that exactly for residential sales it was like negative 2.1%.
In the fourth quarter it was positive around 5% the percentages aren't alike but they shouldn't be because you're moving kilowatt hours out of a very heavy quarter of usage into a quarter of usage which is rather light obviously you're pretty close with a number of the key opinion makers in Congress and on Capitol Hill.
With regards to this thought that the executive branch could try to resuscitate carbon regulation on carbon tax I think there's very little chance of anything like that getting through Congress.
So you're right to kind of look at will EPA be able to put something in place that will advance that cause.
So right now we know that EPA is evaluating or has made a proposal on new sources.
Interestingly Southern is the only company still committed to robust proprietary research and development.
We have developed our own technology.
The Kemper County plant actually meets and exceeds the proposed new standards for carbon for new generation.
So that's kind of interesting.
We'll see how that goes.
There are lots of comments going in and we'll wait eagerly to see what the final rule looks like.<br><br>But it is pretty clear that if the proposed rule is anything like I mean the final rule is anything like the proposed rule conventional coal generation is just not doable.
So they are really making an energy policy statement there.
One of the things that I have been pretty vocal about here lately and that is this energy policy issue.
I've been very clear that energy policy is the purview of Congress.
Congress has the portfolio really as we do in thinking broadly about the ramifications of such policy mechanisms.
For example we say we need clean safe reliable affordable energy.
EPA will tend to focus on clean without taking into account perhaps all the other issues that are so important to balance for our customers' wealth there.<br><br>I go back to the families we serve 48% of which make 40 000 or less those folks make tough kitchen-table economic decisions every day.
Their demand for energy is relatively inelastic and so anything the EPA does which adds cost to energy tends to slow down our economic recovery and causes them to make choices for things like housing healthcare food unrelated to each other.
First question can you talk a bit about Vogtle just in terms of there was testimony in the seventh monitoring report.
Regarding just potential delays especially if the concrete pour didn't occur in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Just kind of give a broad update in terms of just where you are versus the schedule and how the schedule may or may not move.
And then second when you think about Southern Power there are more infrastructure funds and various energy funds out there than there probably are projects and you have what is a collection of very good assets that many of which are contracted for very a long time.
Just curious if you've thought about monetizing that business in terms of so I'm going to hit that last one first.
We've kind of chatted about that for years.
Wait a minute we are EVA driven here.
In other words we always kind of look at what is the return on invested capital versus our cost of capital and if we can beat our cost of capital we create value for shareholders with every dollar we invest.
So that's kind of how we think about Southern Power and from time to time there do kind of develop in the market opportunities to monetize those assets.
We certainly consider that.
You remember one time it got pretty high.
My caution to you there would be that we remain customer focused and many of our customers are co-ops and municipals who had entrusted us with full requirements obligations for long periods of time.
We want to honor the relationship we have with those customers.
That's why we get the business.
And so we're not going to just transact to get the next dollar.
We want to be very careful to take a long-term view on developing the customer base and growing as much value in a sensible way as possible.
With respect to Vogtle we've talked a lot about that in the past and I'm going to kind of point here to the VCM 8 that you're very aware of in terms of VCM 7 testimony that you obviously are very aware of and there was a lot of discussion back and forth about that.<br><br>And recall that we were reluctant to kind of weigh in in a very specific way in the VCM-7 discussion it was clear that our contractors were operating on mid-17 mid-18 schedule.
There was a schedule that our contractors were following.
We had not agreed to that schedule.
Recall that the commercial dispute we have with our contractors deals with delays that came from the licensing from the DCD to the COL and how that may manifest itself in the project.
What I would do I think most constructively here is point you to our filing in VCM-8 I cut myself off.
Tom make sure I'm answering this right is a longer term GDP expectations and we think that our electricity sales will migrate upwards into say a 1.4 yeah correct.
So I'm sorry so just to be clear but it's 1% this year and beyond this year 1.4 going forward.
But the bigger indicator I think is watch CapEx.
If you look at rate based growth based on the CapEx we're showing roughly $5.5 billion a year augmented by whatever Southern Power does opportunistically Tom.
And then I'd also ask on Vogtle and there have been this press reports about the vessel being stranded in the port and issues with the Rail Corp.
Can you give us your version of what's going on with that your story how big an issue is it but I don't think it's particularly important.
We'll be able to manage that little bump in the road excuse the pun I guess Anthony this is Art.
There are a couple of issues at Supreme Court who is really kind of muted by the company and the commission agreeing to the settlement agreement in front of the Supreme Court.
Those folks have basically put that issue in advance.
Our expectation is ultimately that piece will be dismissed.
So of the three pieces one has kind of been muted by the settlement agreement we think it will be dismissed in the future.
The second is an individual from Hattiesburg on the other side is the Attorney General of Mississippi and then the third is just the Sierra Club appealing the second amended certificate Angie there was a number of things that influenced the fourth quarter.
One of those was -- you hit it right on the head was our sending some were there for up to two weeks.
So you had the benefit of lower fuel expense.
You had mild weather.
You had personal income growth associated with the economy.
So as essentially disposable income went up maybe a little more.
I won't go into that detail but we also had lower O&amp;M than expected.
We kind of back ended our activities on O&amp;M to the third and fourth quarter.
So what was it our eastern coal units had a capacity factor in the high 20.
So they just weren't stressed very much.
The other thing is along with Smart Grid along with our smart meters along with a variety of other initiatives that we have in place the system is just operating more efficiently.
We make systematic improvements in our business practices.
We create optionality in our expenses and I think our 26 the share buyback in the fourth quarter I might have missed that in previous quarters we were trying to match our equity with what was going on in our construction program.
And we target approximately 44% equity ratio.
So in order to get there we had talked about I guess two quarters ago two calls ago about buying back some of that equity that was being issued to keep us at a certain target.
We ended up the year at a 43.7% equity ratio which is kind of where we like to see it.
So that's true we put $445 million into our pension this year we really take advantage of the good performance.
Sorry the load growth assumptions.
I heard your views on energy efficiency.
When you look at the EIA so the Department of Energy's expectations of load growth even they expect about 1% or even slightly below 1%.
So your 1.4% assumption if EIA dials down their national projections for the southeast and then you account for weather the assumption would be from EIA that growth is low.
But when we do it when we strip all the stuff out and we can get very granular I apologize.
Southern Power's profile of earnings starting from what you reported in '12 you tend to get more of a near-term pop.
If you're dealing with the gas combined cycle but let me ask you wouldn't you be more inclined to like – even my home utility over here in New York has gone into solar.
Isn't like solar near term getting that something more on your wish list versus building or getting we really like long-term results.
We are always cautious as a matter of corporate dogma not to invest in tax-advantaged investments as a primary strategy because that tends to be addictive behavior.
In order to provide a long-term growth trajectory you have near-term pops and you've got to double it for the next year and double it for the next year and double it for the next year and they you'll find yourself on the air because of storm activity or a variety of other things in tax carry forward positions.
And therefore your tax benefits aren't worth what you thought they might be.
I don't like particularly – tax-advantaged investing is a long-term good corporate growth strategy.
The other thing is it could disappear into the hands of Congress at any time right? We know that we're in a revenue-hungry Congress and how long can Congress afford to hand out preferential treatment to the renewables industry? So there will be some tax-advantaged investing in the form of solar investment I get that I guess there was this cooperation that you guys did with Turner what is the ratio 90 to 10? So we invest 90% you talked a little bit about what's going on but you've also announced a number of plant retirements they are factored into our plan.
They'll disappear as we move through time but those units probably have capacity factors that are well below the number Tom mentioned a moment ago.
So their O&amp;M levels and operation levels aren't very high to begin with.
So we are Dan.
Tom already mentioned I think in some of his remarks we'll begin to finish up the rebar under these preliminary amendment requests that we have been approved by the NRC.
We plan to pour our first nuclear concrete sometime in March.
And after that we can set the cradle which will hold the bottom head and those are expected to be done in the second quarter of the year.
So that will move things within the nuclear island along a good bit.
So I think the pictures that we showed you on some of the slides do more justice than any of the specific descriptions because you can see just by the pictures alone year-over-year that plant has come a long long way.
We've got specific work on the gasifiers going on.
That's going to be completed sometime within the next quarter and that is a critical piece of it.
We still have piping that is being installed as well.
So operator.
I just want to thank everybody on the phone and I appreciate everybody's kind of economy in their questions.
We love to engage you in a very transparent way.
We hope we've done that on this call.
Certainly if there is any follow-up Dan Tucker Art myself Jimmy Stewart others are glad to engage you on any issues you want to follow up on.
Thank you for following our company sir.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the Southern Company fourth quarter 2012 earnings call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen good afternoon.
My name is Elaine and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Southern Company First Quarter Earnings Call.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday April 24 2013.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dan Tucker Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Planning.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Elaine.
Welcome everyone to Southern Company’s First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
Joining me this afternoon are Tom Fanning Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Company; and Art Beattie Chief Financial Officer.
Let me remind you that we will make forward-looking statements today in addition to providing historical information.
Various important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements including those discussed in our Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
In addition we will present non-GAAP financial information on this call.
Reconciliations to the applicable GAAP measure are included in the financial information we released this morning as well as the slides for this conference call.
Please note that today’s call and webcast are audio only which means we will not be displaying slides during the presentation.
You can follow along by accessing the slides posted on our Investor Relations website at www.southerncompany.com.
Tom will open today’s call with an update on Plant Vogtle and the Kemper project and Art will then provide an overview of our first quarter financial results as well as a discussion on sales and the economy.
After closing remarks from Tom we’ll move to Q&amp;A.
At this time and I’ll turn the call over to Tom Fanning.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
During the first quarter of 2013 Southern Company continued to fulfill our primary mission of providing clean safe reliable and affordable energy and doing what’s best for customers in the communities we serve.
An important component of this work is the progress we’re making with our major construction projects.
At Plant Vogtle Unit 3 we’ve recently completed the placement of basemat structural concrete for the nuclear island pouring approximately 7 000 cubic yards of concrete in 41 hours.
At Unit 4 the nuclear island foundation is now complete and column setting is underway.
The full outlines of both nuclear islands have been completed to grade level and overall construction on the units is more than 40% complete.
As you can see on the slide over the next quarter we expect to install rebar for Unit 3 auxiliary building walls and also set the containment vessel bottom head and structural steel for Unit 3.
We further expect to complete installation of the upper mud MATS and begin nuclear island rebar for Unit 4.
Georgia Power also received unanimous approval from the Georgia PSC on its seventh construction monitoring report and recently filed a date report which included the following: a request that the PSC verify and approve all costs totaling $209 million incurred between July 1 and December 31 of 2012.
I requested the PSC amend the existing certificate to reflect revised commercial operation dates the fourth quarter of 2017 and 2018 for Units 3 and 4 respectively.
And a request that the PSC amend the existing certificate to reflect an increase in the projected total capital cost from $4.4 billion to $4.8 billion with the associated increase largely driven by schedule related costs as opposed to brick-and-mortar costs which remained stable.
A projection of total impact on customer rates of between 6% and 8% once the units are in service.
And finally a determination that the extended construction schedule will not increase costs to customers.
Meanwhile progress continues at the Kemper project in Mississippi as we continue with startup activities.
Last month consistent with the settlement agreement we reached in January the Mississippi Public Service Commission approved a two-step rate increase associated with the Kemper project.
The settlement agreement contemplated a seven year plan with no further changes to base rates for Kemper project through 2020.
And Mississippi Power recently made its necessary filings with the Commission.
This rate mitigation plan is expected to be addressed by the Commission this fall.
We continue to make tremendous progress at the Kemper site.
With most of the major components in place the combined cycles gasifiers massive gas absorbers and Ignite dome as well as the 75-acre reservoir the facility’s appearance reflects our progress with start-up activities which are now 40% complete.
With the final engineering almost complete the activities leading up to commercial operation include the very meticulous work of bringing the installed components together through sophisticated piping cabling and control equipment.
Our current cost estimates for the project has increased based primarily on matters related to piping.
We’ve improved the quality and increased the quantity of the pipe and increased the amount of labor needed to achieve our in-service dates.
Art will speak to the financial implications of the current estimate in a few minutes.
While disappointed with the estimated cost increases we remain accountable to customers.
In light of our agreements with the Mississippi Public Service Commission we will not seek recovery of these increased costs which exceed the $2.88 billion cost cap established in the Commission’s 2012 certification order net of the DOE grants and cost cap exceptions included in that order.
Our current plan is only to seek recovery of the capital and variable cost components already reflected in the seven year rate plan recently filed with the PSC.
The revised construction cost estimate reflects the company’s current analysis of the cost to complete the Kemper project.
We continue to believe that the scheduled in-service date is achievable.
As with any project of this magnitude and complexity we will continue to evaluate the estimated project cost and schedule as we proceed towards completion over the next year.
We are proud of the trig technology being implemented at the Kemper project.
This facility is expected to produce energy with a variable cost approaching the cost of nuclear and with a carbon footprint less than a similarly sized natural gas plant.
We remain focused on bringing this 21st century coal project to successful completion for the long-term benefit of our Mississippi customers.
We will keep you posted as startup activities continue.
Meanwhile we continue to expand our use of renewable energy sources with two major announcements taking place just this week.
The first of these is the acquisition by Southern Power and Turner Renewable Energy of our largest solar installation to date the 139-megawatt Campo Verde Solar Project the partnership’s fifth solar acquisition and its first in California Campo Verde more than doubles the Southern Company’s system solar capacity.
The project will be built operated and maintained by First Solar a leading global provider of thin film photovoltaic systems and is expected to begin operation this fall.
The second is an announcement by Georgia Power that it has entered into an agreement to purchase energy from two wind farms in Southwest Oklahoma with capacity totaling 250 megawatts beginning in 2016.
All of these projects represent key elements in our ongoing effort to build a truly diversified generation portfolio all for the benefit of the customers and communities we serve.
I’ll now turn the call over to Art for our financial and economic review.
Thanks Tom.
For the first quarter of 2013 we earned $0.09 per share compared to $0.42 per share in the first quarter of 2012 a decrease of $0.33 per share.
Included in these results is after-tax charge against earnings of $333 million or $0.38 per share related to the current cost estimate for the Kemper project.
As Tom mentioned Mississippi Power will not seek recovery of these estimated costs to complete the facility above the $2.88 billion cost cap net of DOE grants and exceptions to the cost cap.
Also included is an after-tax charge of $16 million or $0.02 per share for the restructuring of a leveraged lease investment.
Excluding these items we earned $0.49 per share compared to $0.42 per share in the first quarter of 2012 an increase of $0.07 per share.
Earnings drivers for the first quarter of 2013 can be viewed in detail on this slide.
However two factors in particular influenced our year-over-year adjusted earnings.
Weather and retail revenue effects at some of our traditional operating companies.
Weather in the first quarter of 2013 added $0.05 per share to our earnings compared with the first quarter of 2012.
Weather is actually $0.01 per share below normal for the first quarter of 2013 but that was compared with $0.06 below normal for the first quarter of 2012.
Heating degree days during the first quarter of 2013 were 54% higher than the first quarter of 2012.
The other significant driver for the first quarter of 2013 was retail revenue effects at several of our traditional operating companies which contributed $0.04 per share as compared to the first quarter of 2012.
Turning now to a discussion of our retail sales results for the first quarter of 2013.
Total weather normal retail sales for the first quarter of 2013 decreased 0.9% compared to the first quarter of 2012.
Weather in normal residential sales decreased 0.9% weather normal commercial sales increased 0.
4% and industrial sales decreased 2.1% compared with the first quarter of 2012.
If total weather normal retail sales were adjusted to reflect one less day in the first quarter of 2013 due to the leap year in 2012 overall retail sales growth would have been closer to flat.
If applied to each of the respective customer classes residential sales growth was essentially flat commercial sales growth was more positive than reported and industrial sales growth was roughly half as negative as the reported results.
Residential sales were affected positively by 13 000 new customers added in the first quarter of 2013.
About half of those new customers were new connects further evidence of a rebounding housing market and a strengthening economy across our four state service territory.
Our economists have produced a recent analysis suggesting that 88% of any shift in residential usage is accounted for by three factors: weather the price of electricity and changes in personal income.
In the first quarter we saw a weakness in personal income and we believe the biggest contributor to that may have been the increase in federal payroll taxes.
We believe this factor could have limited growth in our first quarter usage per customer metrics.
The increase in commercial sales represents the strongest growth in this customer class in a number of years and yet another signal that the economic recovery continues.
This is also consistent with retail expansion activity in the region.
As previously noted industrial sales declined in the first quarter of 2013 compared with the first quarter of 2012.
This result is consistent with reports indicating that exports from the region declined in the first quarter of 2013.
However a number of declines in sales resulted from temporary outages associated with new plant investment as well as unplanned maintenance and other short-term factors.
Some customers have indicated to us that they expect to return to normal operating levels of production for the remainder of the year.
The outlook for future industrial sales and growth in the industrial economy are supported by a number of factors.
For instance manufacturing employment in the Southeast thus far in 2013 has grown at almost twice the national rate and regional indices of manufacturing activity are much stronger than they were just a quarter ago.
Additionally our pipeline of economic development projects remains robust.
Recent job announcements of greater than 1 000 jobs include Home Depot which is creating 2 200 customer service jobs in Kennesaw Georgia.
General Motors which is creating more than 1 000 high-paying IT jobs in Roswell Georgia.
The Navy Federal Credit Union which is adding 1 500 back-office jobs in Pensacola Florida and Medium which is building a new $90 million movie studio in Savannah Georgia that will employ more than 1 200 workers.
Sales results for the first quarter of 2013 were consistent with our expectation that GDP growth in 2013 would be 2% and would occur primarily during the second half of the year.
Despite the headwinds we’ve mentioned earlier we continue to see positive signs of emerging economic growth such as increased expansion of retail stores continued renovation and expansion of food service locations and continued growth in sales tax collections.
However the uncertainty in the overall economic outlook continues.
Turning again to company financial news our Board of Directors voted earlier this month to increase Southern Company’s common dividend to an annual rate of $2.03 per share.
This marks the 12th consecutive year that our dividend has increased.
In fact since 2002 our dividend has increased total of 51%.
This 12-year trend is a direct reflection of the positive outlook we continue to maintain for our business and the region that it serves.
We remain steadfastly confident that the business fundamentals of the Southeast provide a solid foundation for a promising future and Southern Company is proud to be a part of it.
Finally I’d like to share with you our earnings per share estimate for the second quarter of 2013 which will be $0.68 per share.
As a final note in light of the Kemper charge we remain committed to our annual guidance range and our long-term EPS growth target.
I’ll now turn the call back over to Tom for his closing remarks.
Thanks Art.
In closing I’d like to talk for moment about our nation’s economy and the great opportunity our industry has to help make things better.
As you know Southern Company’s business is all about doing what’s best for our customers.
It’s a philosophy that goes all the way back to our founding and it’s an area in which we continue to excel.
In fact Southern Company was just named the top-ranked major electric utility in the 2013 American Customer Satisfaction Index.
Down through the generations Southern Company employees have always focused on making life better for the families and communities we serve.
Our customers deserve that commitment.
It’s central to our legacy and it’s an especially crucial role for us today given the difficult economic climate faced by many of our customers.
By now everyone knows the issues with the economy.
Low sustained growth and unacceptably high unemployment.
The problem isn’t solely tied up with reduced spending or higher taxes the real solution lies in promoting sustainable economic growth that will support more job creations and personal income growth and make American lives better.
Our industry is uniquely suited to support that outcome.
In fact since 1970 nearly 80% of the growth in energy consumption has been driven by the electrification of the American economy.
Energy producers are central to the economy and central to the lives of American families.
In short energy is growth capital and we need to do everything we can as a nation to ensure a clean safe reliable and affordable supply.
With that in mind we have been promoting in industry initiative across the energy complex which includes oil natural gas and electricity to address the issue of North American energy security.
The goal is to develop and market our vast supply of energy resources so that by the end of this decade North America can become a net energy exporter and perhaps later the largest producer of energy worldwide.
Think about it.
Our current energy policy is predicated on the concept of scarcity.
In fact we can turn that premise to one of abundance.
Southern Company is committed to playing a leadership role to help North America and particularly the United States achieve that aspiration.
I will keep you apprised of our progress.
In the meantime Southern Company will continue to excel at the fundamentals of our business finding the best ways to serve our customers in the Southeast while building better communities in a better country.
We are now ready to take your questions so operator we’ll now take the first question.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hello Dan.
Hey.
Listen I guess this is going to be the topic of the day for little while but just on Kemper can we discuss a little bit more what caused the 20% increase effectively in project costs from where you guys most recently thought it was going to be to where you are today? Just maybe explore what’s driving that a little more than just a piping comment? Yeah sure.
So as we approach these last 12 months essentially we were looking over our estimates of what it is going to take to complete and to make the in-service date.
There were kind of a number of different issues we outlined broadly but with respect to the piping we made the decision to essentially improve the quality of it improve the thickness improve the metallurgy.
We think that will provide the best long-run answer to the reliability of the plant and serve Mississippi customers for decades to come.
So we improved that.
Secondly we miss-estimated the amount of piping that we would need so we increased the amount of piping that was associated with this project.
And then I guess finally we have added another shift essentially an overnight shift to getting the work done by the in-service date.
So it really is kind of a function of more labor and a revision of our labor productivity estimate.
And Tom when you think about I guess the first question on that is there any ability for money to come back from the E&amp;C guys so you’re not going to take the full tab on this? Or is this kind of thing to sit on your cost level? Well this is our best estimate of what it’s going to take in order to complete by the in-service date.
To the extent we under-run then yeah there would be an adjustment at the end of the process.
Likewise if it takes more there would be another adjustment over but that is our best estimate currently.
But I guess you know with Vogtle there’s some debate over whether the E&amp;C providers are responsible for some of the cost overruns and delays.
Is there a similar recourse ordebate of recourse with Kemper that you guys could try and get some of the $500-ish million covered by your E&amp;C guys rather than you guys paying for it? Well remember Kemper and Vogtle are completely different right so let’s think about Kemper.
Remember this is our technology our design our construction effort certainly have subcontractors but this is our responsibility.
And recall we already have a settlement agreement in place with the Mississippi commission that provides for in total about a 19% net increase.
When you look at Vogtle we have a completely different arrangement.
That is we have a turnkey contract with the consortium that’s Toshiba Westinghouse and Chicago Bridge and Iron.
And while we have made modifications to that contract over time to the benefit of our customers we feel that it is a completely different relationship than in Kemper where we are solely responsible for executing on the project.
We are responsible for Vogtle but we have commercial relationship with the consortium.
Further when you consider the cost impacts on Vogtle it’s pretty clear it’s a different matter.
When we originally certified the plant we thought it would be 12% increase.
Now with the additional cost but moreover the overwhelming additional benefits we think that price increase now is reduced to somewhere between 6% and 8%.
And while in VCM 8 we did increase the schedule there will be no costs that will show up in rates to customers associated with that change in schedule.
And further when we think about the remaining price increases associated with completing Vogtle to in-service we believe those price increases are somewhere less than 1% per year.
So it’s a totally different ballgame.
Kemper we already have a settlement agreement Vogtle we have a process in place at the VCM hearings and a variety of other things a different commercial arrangement a different price impact.
We just think they’re completely different.
Okay.
Thank you for clarifying that.
I guess one last question on Vell and I’ll let somebody else talk but Art on the – with the charge do you guys need to change your equity proceed expectations for this year and next year just to balance out your balance sheet? Yeah we’ve – we kind of outlined on the last call that we had plans for $0 to $300 million but that was kind of contingent upon Southern Power’s projects.
Let me say first off that we’re committed to the credit quality that our customers enjoy the benefits of.
We will support Mississippi Power in their – getting their cap structure in a shape that it was contemplated in the seven year rate plan that they filed.
So how we finance that how we downstream cash to Mississippi Power is a function of what we – how we do it at Southern.
And our intention is to address that over a period of time such that we’re not going to issue a slug of equity immediately to make up that delta.
And when you look at Southern Company’s ratio it would drive our ratio down a little bit below 43% so we’re not that far away from the target ratios that we established for Southern Company.
So we’ll get back to that over a period of time.
And even the ongoing net impact of additional shares whenever we decide to issue shares is really pretty minor.
I think the sustaining cents per share impact is like $0.03 per share associated with this if we sold all the amount of shares right away which we don’t intend to do right away.
So – and just recall last year we had negative $0.11 of weather.
I think when Art says that we’re committed to our annual guidance and our long-term growth aspirations I think we can manage this circumstance quite well.
Got it.
Thank you guys.
You bet.
Thank you.
And now our next question over the phone lines is from Steve Fleishman with Wolfe Trahan.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hello Steve.
Hi.
Hey Tom.
How are you? Great.
So just same topic just in the event that Kemper comes on after May of 2014 is there any issue if it doesn’t mean it’s targeted start-up with your settlement or anything like that? Yes Steve.
This is Art.
There are yeah certainly the issue around investment tax credits is time sensitive.
So that represents roughly $133 million and it’s contemplated in our 7-year rate plan that has been filed with the Mississippi commission.
There may also be some issues around the AFUDC especially with the certainly the portion that would exceed the $2.88 billion where we would not continue to accrue AC/DC on that portion but then a question about the remaining balance of AFUDC and whether or not you’d be able to continue to accrue on that balance as well.
Okay.
And this is just any time after May of 2014 these questions come up or is it a certain time after that? No.
We think would be that.
In other words the structure that we have crack AFUFC be up to $2.88 billion.
Beyond $2.88 billion given the higher cost increase that could occur earlier than say May.
So you could see that effect going on.
As Art mentioned the ITC effect would be something you would see ratably over the 7-year period and within that structure there’s a true provision and a variety of other things so we’ll just have to see how that would work out.
Okay.
And just...
Hey Steve.
The ITC would be reflected over 30 years so there would be the annual effect of that over the 30 years so we think it would be kind of small.
Okay.
And then in terms of the remaining risks in terms of the current budget is there certain area that we should be most watchful of where there still could be risk of cost pressure in these last 12 months? Well recall this is a first of its kind technology although we’re confident of our ability to deploy it.
What we have said before probably the larger risk in front of us right now goes to the instrumentation and control equipment.
Harmonizing the operation of the plant from the fuel intake of lignite to the gasification to the stripping out of the CO2 to the remaining synthesis gas going on to the combined cycle units and producing electricity.
Harmonizing the operation of the plant I think is probably what we are most focused on.
Now we have put in place for some time now a simulator where we have modeled how this is supposed to work.
We mentioned before that we’re already 40% through start up activities.
Those start up activities have been mostly focused on the combined cycle units some of the other ancillary areas around the plant so the big effort is going to be start up around the gasifier and the carbon capture equipment.
It’d be those issues.
I would say instrumentation and control would be the biggest single issue.
Okay.
And then one last question just on the variable cost of the plant in the future based on any of these changes does that affect whatever you expected the variable cost of the plant to be in the future? Either good or bad...
No we think on a GAAP equivalent basis you’re going to be somewhere between $1 and $1.25 per million BTU.
High capital cost but cheap energy and recall the energy is influenced by the value of the CO2 which is indexed the price of oil which pays for substantial portions of the lignite fuel.
The net effect is a very promising energy cost for decades to come for Mississippi’s customers and we have great certainty.
We don’t think there’s going to be much volatility at all in the fuel price because we own the mine and it’s right there.
This is essentially a mine now operation.
So low volatility...
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
You bet.
Thank you.
And now our next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hey Greg.
Greg? Greg are you there? Yeah I’m here.
Sorry about that.
No problem.
I had two questions but you answered the first one on the financing cost of the write-down.
The second one is just looking at the Appendix when you show your generation portfolio past through factors in mix.
Yes.
Natural gas prices have run-up quite a bit in the first quarter.
Yes.
I’m surprised to see that you saw such a dramatic increase in Powder River basin coal burn.
I’m not necessarily surprised that your non-CRB coal burn is about the same.
Can you talk about what the dynamics were in the quarter that led to that and then maybe extrapolate out into the next quarter – the rest of the year based on where gas and coal prices are now? Yeah sure.
Look me and Art will tag team this one.
The way to think about kind of our coal to gas energy is really this.
PRB is going to come in to dispatch somewhere in the $3 range $3 to $4.
SO at $4.25 spot gas you’re running PRB in a sense right? So that’s Shearer that’s Miller.
And interestingly as we evaluate other kind of mixing of PRB in with regular coal that will happen.
Now the other thing is we’re moving away from Central App coal more to Illinois basin coal.
When you look at those units the Illinois basin coal they’re going to start dispatching at about the $5 range.
Central App will still be kind of in the $6 range.
So that would be the spread in which you should look to see coal and gas switching.
Art do you have anything to add to that? Yeah I’ll just point out Greg that at right at the end of the month if you look at our dispatch curve all the Miller units and at least three of the Shearer units were ahead of our most efficient gas unit.
So that gives you an idea about how sensitive those PRB units are to the gas price in the marketplace.
And the everything is – go ahead Greg.
I’m sorry.
I was going to ask how you’re coal piles in relation to finishing up the answer to this question.
How you’re coal piles look? I mean how flexible are your contracts such that you can have the facts to be able to look at this cycle as these prices move against each other? Yeah well they’re higher than we want but we have plans in place to work them down by certainly 2014 and into 2015.
We have plans in place.
We’ve done all sorts of different things to manage this situation.
Normally we would be about kind of a 40-day supply right now and we’re kind of in the mid-60’s.
It varies by plant to plant to plant but we have plans to get it all down and placed by the right time.
I would guess where it is now that’s going to bring your PRB pile down pretty fast right? It sure will.
It’ll help us manage them faster that’s for sure relative to where they were last year.
Hey interesting data interesting data.
In the first quarter of 2012 average gas price was $2.50.
In the first quarter of 2013 average gas price was $3.50 spot price $4.25.
Remember our cautionary kind statements about gas and while we’ve made the big bet to gas we remain convicted that it was more volatile than other fuel sources.
I think the data just bears that out.
And one of the things I was going to add was one of the other blessings we have by the people who came before us was deploying a lot of combined cycle technology so that we have great flexibility in being able to move between coal and gas in a short amount of time.
When we think about it we could go as high as something like 57% gas and 22% coal and as high as oh I don’t know 30% 45% wait a minute 45% coal 35% gas if coal gets cheap relative to gas.
So we can swing significantly here.
Thank you guys.
You bet.
And now our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi Jonathan.
Hi.
Good afternoon guys.
My first question on demand.
I know you’ve been saying that you anticipated the first half of the year would be slower than the back half.
But the 2% decline you saw in industrial having seen an up quarter I guess in the fourth quarter.
Was that sort of kind of what you had in mind? Or more severe less good than the outlook you gave 3 months ago? I’ll answer you first and then Art fill in.
Look 2% I think adjusting for leap year is 1%.
If you just the outages that we saw with variety of kind of big guys like Mercedes-Benz like Chevron like others we were probably nearly flat on industrial which is not far off of what we thought.
Yeah that’s true.
There were some other impacts we had with cogeneration going on at some of our large paper customers.
So that has an impact year-over-year as well.
And that’s still a function of gas price and where that goes.
The other thing I would say is going back to this kind of economic development and the new announcements those are really the headlights on kind of where we see our industrial sales going.
That’s awfully bullish.
Gee whiz.
Four projects at 6 000 new employees good jobs.
When you look at our manufacturing employment being 1.8% versus the national average of 1% it looks bullish to us.
So I would just say look adjusting for all these things it’s generally in line with our expectations and we look forward to seeing how it unfolds.
If I had to say is there a weakness? I would watch out for the global economy in exporting.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you Tom.
You bet.
And then just on the way you presented the numbers generally you obviously have this item you excluded on a leveraged lease.
Can you just talk us through why you’re pulling that out? I mean in the past you’ve – typically there’s been a pretty high bar for Southern Co.
to exclude a one-time item from numbers.
Well that was.
I’m sorry Jonathan.
That was a – go ahead.
No.
You go on I’ve stated the question.
Okay.
That was a leveraged lease that we were the equity and tax owner of.
We entered into that lease back in 2002.
The lessee had significant operating performance problems with the plant and was unable to get cash flows high enough to make the debt payments.
So we had disclosed this in the 10-K I think as long as a year ago describing our options here.
We could’ve written off the entire investment at about $90 million or get the bondholders to agree to a restructuring which is what we’ve done.
We’re actually going to put some additional investment into the plant.
We are going to act as a general contractor to the new lessee and we believe that the accounting rules required us to book a restructuring charge of – after-tax of $16 million or so and that’s basically the long and short of it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Guys sorry one more issue? Yes.
Absolutely.
Of the – on – there was a – I think there was talk before of some securitization angle around Kemper.
Is that...
Yes.
Still something you’re contemplating? And could you just remind us what was going to happen there? Yeah sure.
That was part of the regulatory settlement we reached earlier this spring so in essence additions to rate base are $2.4 billion of the plant the mine and the CO2 pipe.
Beyond the $2.4 billion of the plant up to $2.88 billion of the plant is plus AFUDC and some other items goes to securitization.
And we have estimated that amount to be between $700 million and $800 million.
Recall we had legislation provided for an amount of about $1 billion so we currently contemplate using somewhere between $700 million and $800 million of the $1 billion securitization available to us.
Right.
And then obviously as you’re eating everything above $2.88 billion on the plant that’s not part of that discussion.
That’s right.
We’re very clear though that there are exceptions to the cap which remain in place.
And remember those are force measure change in law beneficial capital or project development allowances is essentially actions we take on the plant site while we’re building it to improve its performance.
Those things remain exceptions to the cap.
So you’ve talked about in the answers to what’s going on at Kemper that some of these things were improvements designed to enhance performance so how much – can you give us a number of what the exception piece is likely to be your view of it? Well we don’t – anything that we’ve talked about so far it does not apply to the regulatory agreement that we struck so far.
So when we struck that settlement agreement remember there was a settlement agreement and there were two pieces of legislation passed through the Mississippi House and Senate and there was a vote by the commission to approve all of that.
And then we have remaining in front of us the approval of the seven-year plan as well as prudence hearings.
Given all of that work when we came up with the increased estimate we’ve felt bound by the settlement agreement we reached and all the agreements we reached with the parties involved and elected ourselves not to charge customers for any of these cost increases.
Okay.
So even if they could technically fall under the exception you’re choosing not to.
Not with these.
These costs we’re talking about don’t fall under any of those exceptions.
To the extent something arises in the future conceivably they could but not the cost were talking about today.
Right.
Thank you Tom.
Sorry to be slow on that.
Oh no no no no no.
Thank you.
And now our next question comes from the line of Julian Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hey Julian.
Hello? Hello? Hello? Hey.
It’s Julian here.
Can you hear me? Oh absolutely.
There we go.
So I wanted to ask you guys about coal ash here and what your expectations are as far as it goes with respect to the latest that came out of D.C.? So you know we’ll see.
There’s still a lot of work to go.
Our expectation is that at the end of the day they’ll find it nonhazardous would be my simple answer and that the kind of effective period in which will be able to adjust to whatever new regulations we’ll have some time to do that well into the future.
You know there are some significant capital costs associated with whatever EPA has us do with coal ash.
At one time that was in our three-year budget.
Our sense is now that there won’t be any significant capital in the three-year period that we disclose in our estimates to you guys.
In the aggregate however depending on how these rules come out and we’re going to be as engaged as we always are these could easily result in compliance costs that exceed our incremental cost from that.
We just believe these costs including coal ash effluents and 316-B will likely be outside the three-year estimate period now.
Great.
And then does the – what came out here on the effluent side does that change what you’re talking about at all? And just in terms of the time when you talk about three years in what kind of timeframe are we ultimately talking here? Well it’s way early to assess kind of where we are.
We’re still evaluating all that stuff.
We think we have something that is workable and it’s a 400 page rule and we’re going to just dive through it as we do here at Southern and we’ll respond back to EPA in due course.
Great.
Thank you very much.
You bet.
And now our next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Yeah hey there.
Hey Paul.
I just had a question kind of what’s still open at Kemper? And if there were further escalation where could we see that happen? It’s kind of what we chatted about already.
The regulatory process I described still in front of us is approval of the seven-year rate plan which was contemplated in the settlement.
And the other thing still in front of us are prudence questions okay.
Okay.
So we’ll do a prudence review of building the plant.
I guess I was asking what engineering is not done? I mean could you – are there like other piping issues that could arise? I really think the issue there goes to kind of what I described before.
It’s going to go to as we complete startup activities recall we’re 40% complete right now so what startup remains goes to the I&amp;C question instrumentation and controls; and then recall one of the big cost drivers going forward here that gave rise to our new estimate had to do with labor and productivity and meeting our in-service dates.
So we’ve got to hit our productivity levels.
Okay.
With regards to the ITC when does the plant have to be up to qualify for that? Well there are several phases of ITC involved here.
Phase I is a time sensitive phase and it has to be in service by I think May of 2014 in order to qualify for those.
The second phase relates to the amount of carbon capture that we’re successful with and those I think expire some time in 2016 April of 2016.
We have also Paul applied for some additional Phase III credits but that would require that we exceed 70% carbon capture and we’re just not sure that we’re going to qualify for those particular credits but we have applied for them.
And then can you just talk you gave second quarter guidance kind of the drivers to think about the ins and outs of what’s going to happen between the two quarters? Well if you think about just the revenue effects you’ll see more revenue effects in the first quarter than you will in the second because you had some increases in the second quarter of last year related to McDonough primarily and some issues I think at Gulf Power.
So those will probably reduce somewhat.
It’s mostly based on our low growth and our experience around what we expect on the O&amp;M side.
That’d be the drivers that I can think of off the top of my head.
What was weather like last year do you recall? I think weather was $0.01 positive in the second quarter of last year.
But of course the second quarter is not a big weather month anyway.
No.
And the weather’s been sort of screwy.
We actually had more revenue in March than we did in January for the first time in anybody’s memory around here.
It was really weird looking.
Our 80-degree days January was warmer than February which was about equal to March.
It was a very strange quarter even though in the aggregate it was normal probably.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
You bet.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Michael how are you? Hey guys.
Just a quick update if you don’t mind.
I remember last year there was some litigation or I think mediation regarding the contractors the Shaw/Westinghouse Consortium...
Oh sure.
Right.
And Vogtle.
Can you just give an update where that stands in the resolution process and kind of what investors should be looking out for that going forward? Yeah and I’m afraid it’s going to be a short answer.
I would give you more here I just can’t update it a whole lot.
I would argue that there has been positive developments and I think one of the positive developments has been that within the consortium right so the Consortium is to Toshiba Westinghouse and it was formerly Shaw now Chicago Bridge and Iron has essentially bought Shaw.
We think that is marginally a positive development in working through the commercial issues related to this.
We’ve looked at a variety of different things.
We went through mediation.
And after mediation we go through litigation.
We’ve filed lawsuits.
We still haven’t determined venue whether that is Washington D.C.
or Augusta Georgia so that remains in front of us.
But look we’ve met with management of both Westinghouse/Shaw and Toshiba all of them and we have a great relationship.
And so we’ll see how it goes.
I can’t update you with any specificity as to when we’re going to resolve it or whether we’ll go to litigation or whatever but that’s where we are.
Okay.
And one follow-up totally unrelated to Vogtle.
When you look around the system I mean you’ve got Kemper coming online next year you’ve got Vogtle coming online in the back end of the decade.
But when you look across the system whether it’s Alabama Georgia Mississippi et cetera when do you start seeing a need for new gas-fired generation? Yeah that’s a great question.
I’m going to guess – what do you think Art? About 2023? That’s what our models would say.
Of course a lot of that depends on economic growth and a variety of other things.
But assuming kind of what 2% GDP growth 1.3% electricity sales growth you get a number like 2023.
Got it.
So in other words the McDonough plants as well as the Vogtle and Kemper plants kind of meet your really your base load and intermediate load supply needs for a better part of a decade.
And throw on there I think it’s easy to forget about but Alabama brought in from wholesale sales out of its Miller units which is one of the most efficient coal units in the United States and is now using those units to serve retail in Alabama.
So I would argue you’ve got Vogtle.
You’ve got McDonough.
Georgia has procured some PPAs from competitive generation providers.
We have Miller.
We have Kemper.
We have some megawatts out of a solar initiative in Georgia.
I think that will all speak to our needs through the end of this decade and perhaps into very early the 2020s.
Got it.3 Okay.
Thank you Tom.
Must appreciated.
You bet.
And now our next question comes from the line of Carrie Saint Louis with Fidelity.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Hey Carrie.
Hi.
How are you? Not bad.
How are you? Good.
Good.
I just I had a couple of questions to go through.
First of all I didn’t see in the slides any updated CapEx numbers and with the higher costs at Kemper County and some of the activity at Southern Power I was just wondering if you could address that.
Yeah Carrie.
This is Art.
We did not update that slide.
We’re still evaluating the timeframe around which those dollars will be spent so we will probably address that in Form 10-Q and you’ll see some more detailed information there.
And in terms of Southern Power you had a number of $900 million.
Do think that is going to be higher than that this year? Or is that still a good number for all of 2013? I think that is still a good number.
It contemplated some placeholders and we’ve announced the acquisition of the Campo Verde project.
So there’s also some other elements in there from a capital perspective around maintenance capital and things like that.
So I’d still stick with that number.
Okay.
Great.
And then I was just wondering if you had spoken to the rating agencies with respect to the Kemper County overruns and had any updated views from them? We have spoken to all three of the rating agencies.
We have reviewed the situation with them and they’ve given us a response of concern but again our commitment to the Mississippi to maintain their ratings and we’ll address the southern ratio over time as we spoke a few moments ago.
And you know that’s part of our Southern Company financial dogma.
We believe that financial integrity is as important as return.
That’s what really drives value.
We’ll maintain that posture.
Well just so I could follow up.
So I believe that Mississippi power is A3 negative outlook at Moody’s.
Do you maintain – I don’t know if I’ve ever had asked this before but kind of a limit on how low you would like the OpEx to be rated? Like would you like them kind of all on the A category? Or you’re indifferent? Just how should we think about your credit quality commitment for the operating companies? Yeah we’d like for them all to be in the single A category.
So A3 is kind of as low as we want to go with Moody’s.
Okay.
And so just so I understood that commitment so your discussion is the parent will push funds down into Mississippi Power to get back up to its regulatory capital structure? Yeah.
So as Art described earlier we’ll make a capital contribution to preserve their financial integrity.
How we do that at the Southern we’ll see over time.
Yeah okay.
So do you envision doing the infusion down in the Mississippi Power sometime sooner this year? How have you thought about that? Well that’s a function of the CapEx and when they spend it.
So that will over the next – by the time it goes into service we’ll be back to a closer level.
Okay.
What is their allowed equity structure down at Mississippi Power? It’s basically a 50-50 and that’s consistent with what they filed for in their 7-year plan.
Okay.
Great.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Nice talking to.
And now our next question comes from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Ali how are you? Good.
Good afternoon.
How are you? Super.
Good.
Hey Tom.
as you look at Kemper County today as an investment given the cost overruns and where the budget is coming out versus where you thought it would when you went in how do you see the economics of this project? Yeah absolutely.
Thanks.
It still is terrific.
Now obviously we’re disappointed.
Nobody wanted to have this overrun and certainly for our account.
We take that very seriously and we’re disappointed with that.
That being said it is so important to serve the long-term interest of our customers to provide a balanced portfolio of generation resources.
Failing to do Kemper would have put a much bigger bet in natural gas for the account of Mississippi’s customers and that doesn’t make sense.
When you think about the energy production profile of Mississippi Power going forward with Kemper they are about a third coal a third Kemper a third natural gas.
And we call the energy equivalent dollar-per-million BTU of Kemper is going to be somewhere between $1 and $1.25 per million BTU with very low volatility.
Unlike natural gas and we pointed out before a quarter ago $2.50 per million BTUs first quarter $3.50 per BTU and spot $4.25.
And if any of you live in the Northeast especially New England you can see how volatile gas can be still.
Now I sale that to say we’ve already made a big bet in natural gas.
We have great optionality to swing between coal and natural gas.
We are very bullish on natural gas.
But that does not mean that we put all our eggs in that basket.
Economic dispatch Kemper looks like a nuclear plant.
High capital cost cheap energy.
We think it makes sense.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Second question I wanted to clarify – I know for planning purposes you talked about 2% GDP growth 1.3% or so weather normalized demand growth.
Wanted to be clear – is that what you’re assuming in your 2013 guidance as well – that demand growth number? Yes.
Okay.
And my last question and you talked a little bit about some of the additional projects that are coming in within the certain power footprint renewables et cetera but also I thought Tom you talked about expanding the Southern Power business model.
Maybe I thought you were talking also about more Greenfield projects outside the Southern footprint.
Can you just give us an update on your thinking on Southern Power’s model for us? Yeah it is where it was.
I would just pick at just a couple of words.
We’re not expanding the business model per se.
The business model for us would be essentially long-term bilateral contracts credit-worthy counterparties little or no fuel or transmission risk.
We earn our money based on the brick-and-mortar investment that we get in a capacity price that we put in our contracts – a second contract typically we associate would be essentially energy which is mostly fuel and there’s some upside in those contracts but very little downside.
That’s the way we structure Southern Power so that it has a risk profile similar to our retail regulated business and we’ve been awfully successful.
So the idea was we’ve been able to do that in the Southeast.
The Southeast is pretty well flush with capacity and we have been approached by other people.
We’ve gone outside the Southeast really in order to do renewables right? The biomass fuel in Nacogdoches the solar deals we’ve done now in New Mexico and Nevada and now California.
So those are the reasons why we ventured outside the Southeast.
We have maintained the same business model.
Along the way we have been approached by people particularly our target customers which I would say are particularly focused on munis and co-ops and maybe other large IOUs outside the Southeast to do other business.
So far we’ve been turning that business down.
What we have suggested in prior calls is that maybe that’s some business we could do effectively.
We would keep the same business model in place in pursuing anything if it’s outside the Southeast.
And to the extent at the expiration of the contract recall that we tried to do these long-term contracts.
I don’t know specifically with the latest average tenure is – 12 to 14 years for Southern Power but I would say that if you’re taking risk on re-upping a contract that the expiration of a long-term contract we would probably price in a risk premium to the return to make sure that we were covered on that risk.
But that’s our thinking.
It remains.
Okay.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
Yes sir.
And now our next question comes from the line of Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hello Mark.
Good morning.
Hey.
How are you? Great.
Just a couple of quick questions.
I know it’s a little bit early and you can’t get too in detail about it but with the Georgia filing – the rate case filing that you’ll be doing a little later are there any big structural changes that you might be looking at? Maybe a change from the 3-year cycle in that filing? Or is it too early to comment? Yeah it’s really very early to comment.
Until we file we’re not going to have a whole lot to say about that.
But what we’ve done in the past – we typically file a traditional one-year rate filing and then we’ve been under since 1995 a series of three year accounting orders which generally have a much more fluid structure.
So what we’ve had with the Georgia regulatory process – the Georgia commission particularly is a constructive relationship in which we can evaluate and manage regulatory structures to accommodate the needs of the day.
And I think that has served Georgia Power’s customers so well for so long.
So we’ll file a traditional rate case and we’ll file probably some other alternatives to that and we’ll see what makes sense for George’s customers.
Okay.
And just one quick question on the Bowing explosion.
I saw that you had a filing to close one of the units there.
Is that related to the generator incident? Or are you going to be fully repairing? I mean I just wanted to get little clarity around what’s happening around that Unit? So we don’t have any filings associated with the Bowing problem there.
The filing that was made was the sale of a Certain associated with Unit 6.
Here’s the issue.
We’re really not prepared to talk very much about Bowing yet.
Any event like that we do what’s called a root cause analysis.
That root cause analysis has not yet been completed and we’re very careful even internally talking about that until we see with the facts are.
There is a very disciplined rigorous process that we follow.
And so once we see that we’ll evaluate what to do now in terms of returning Units 3 and 4 to in-service Unit 1 and what to do about repairs associated with Unit 2.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
Yeah I had seen that filing and I just didn’t open it.
Just wanted to make sure it wasn’t related.
No.
It’s really a minor issue and really doesn’t apply to Bowing 1 through 4.
Thanks.
You bet.
And now our next question comes from the line of Andy Levi with Avon Capital.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Hey Andy.
Hey.
How are you guys? Great.
I don’t really have any I guess I have one or two questions left.
Just a clarification I guess if you asked this to IR but just on these sales growth forecasts that you gave could that that you gave on the fourth quarter call you gave guidance.
Does that include the effects of the leap year or didn’t include? I’m just not sure on that? It contemplated the leap year effect.
Okay.
So the sales that you’re showing here for the quarter are really versus your guidance and we wouldn’t strip? No they’re actual to actual.
The way I would think of it it’s year-over-year so Right.
Right.
But we compare it to your guidance not stripping out the leap year going back to flat? Right so? Well we’re just give you color on the year-over-year comparison is all we’ve done.
Yeah and Andy when you think about it so the leap year effect really occurs in the first quarter then it diminishes as the year goes on.
So you have essentially 190 which is about 1.1% difference.
You know afterwards once you get to 360 the leap year effect almost washes out on any year-to-date comparison.
So it kind of washes out by the year.
That’s why you’ve got to kind of account for it in the first quarter.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then is there a way to get a breakdown on Kemper as far as the $550 million how much was for piping how much was for labor productivity whatever.
No we don’t have that.
Well we have it but that’s for our account.
Got it.
Okay.
I guess that’s it.
Thank you.
Thanks Andy.
And now our next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan with Visium.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hey Ashar.
How are you? Pretty good Tom.
How are you doing? I’m sorry I was off a little bit I don’t know this question got addressed or not.
The announcement that was made yesterday on buying the solar facility is there any more information regarding the purchase price attributable to Southern? And if I’m right the plant comes into operation if I’m right end of this year so there is going to be some kind of ITCs that are going to be recognized as part of earnings? Sir I don’t know if you discussed this already or not is there anything you can provide? Ashar this is Art.
You’ll see more information on that in our 10-Q.
We have an agreement with in the purchase agreement where we’ve agreed not to disclose the purchase price until we have an obligation to do so and that’s when we’ll do it in the 10-Q.
So we’re going to honor that agreement.
But there are ITCs associated with it that that will be recognized and our guidance contemplated the projects.
This is one of those placeholders I was referring to.
It fills one of the placeholders.
Okay.
And the plant does come into operation right? At the end of the year? Yes sir.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
You bet.
Nice talking to you.
And now our next question comes from the line of Dan Jenkins with State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Big Dan how are you? Good.
How about you? Great.
You mentioned that you’ll provide more info on the revised CapEx in the Q but I was – would it would be the same for the financing? Can you give us any color on how financing plans would change given the higher Kemper costs and so forth? Well the financing cost we talked about this earlier Mississippi’s additional cost to – for the $540 million will be financed with a mix of capital.
We’ll then load some capital from Southern to support the equity side and then issue more debt to support some other expenditures.
In terms of how we handle that at Southern again is something that we’ll deal with over time.
For Southern it’s a much less – much smaller impact on the Southern level that it is at Mississippi.
So we’ll deal with that equity issue over time.
How about on the debt side though so you’d expect more debt issuance on – for Mississippi Power I would assume? Well it depends on the timing of the expenditures and right now we’re – we don’t have a feel for exactly when they’re going to spend that money so we can update you later on that.
Okay and then going back to your Appendix ratio the capacity factors and generation mix just wondering if you could give us what the capacity factors were for the nuclear in 2012 and 2013? What Q1...
Yeah can you hold on just a second? I’m going to have to look that one up.
Sure.
And then somewhat related to that just the generation mix the decline in nuclear I assume that’s related to additional outages.
Is that correct in line with...
That’s correct.
What would that be in each quarter do you know? I don’t have the outage.
Will get that for you.
That’ll be factored in; 2012 I think it was first quarter was 93 and 2013 was 85.
Okay.
Thank you.
That’s all I had.
All right Dan.
Thank you.
And now our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
All right Paul.
Hey.
How are you doing? Can you hear me? Yes.
Yeah sure.
Pretty quick just there’s this footnote that says also reflects reclassification of January 2012 kilowatt hours so among customer classes with – consistent with actual advanced meter data and the use of the advanced meter data I guess is implemented in the first quarter of 2012.
What does that mean? Does that have any impact on any of this data or anything that we should know about? No it’s merely a way to make the data more comparable and more meaningful.
Basically it’s an improvement in the reporting results.
At the end of 2011 we were using a much more rough estimate of what the allocation of unbilled would be between classes whereas at the end of the – end of last – end of the first quarter last year we were using a much more accurate – using the AMI meters to calculate which was a much more accurate.
So we didn’t want that to do – disrupt the reporting numbers so we normalized for those effects.
And that didn’t have – did that have an impact on the year-over-year of what are normalized numbers? Well it did have an impact but it normalized them in a way that we think is more meaningful.
Okay.
So I guess it’s more meaningful but I guess – in that it’s more accurate but I mean does it – would the numbers be substantially different I guess if that hadn’t happened? Let me say it this way the total number that we reported the 0.9% for total retail sales would have stayed the same the allocation between the classes would have altered.
Gotcha.
Okay? Okay.
And then in terms of just if I understood the thing the GDP forecast and sales force caps and everything hasn’t changed from last quarter.
Is that correct? That’s correct.
Okay.
And then just I guess at Kemper it does seem that – I mean I’m just wondering is there some specific design issue at IGCC that we should know about? Or that you guys have – I mean it just seems that this thing is – especially if you guys I mean you had a problem as well with the cost overruns and what have you.
I’m just sort of trying to get a sense as to what you guys have learned in this process as to what’s going on.
Paul I would argue that our circumstance is completely different than what Duke has experienced.
Duke is buying a very different kind of gasifier.
They’re buying it with that contractual relationship.
This is our own technology.
The gasifier behaves differently.
You may remember I went through a protracted explanation as to why we were different than Duke.
Look when we do the feed study the final engineering and economic design of Kemper County for everything that we did the feed steady on which is all the kind of electricity side and the proprietary technology the gasifier the fuel handling and all that stuff? We are right on the money in terms of that estimate.
Where we missed it just to be clear is on the piping.
And you think about the piping associated with a plant like this it really is a pretty big effort.
Because remember we’re taking gas off of the gasifier we have all these byproducts including CO2 and a variety of other chemicals and by improving the quality quantity and then by adding more labor including adjustments to productivity on the site to deploying that piping that’s what’s given rise to the big increase.
That’s a different situation than what Duke raised and probably has nothing to do really with the technology associated with the IGCC itself.
It’s the piping coming out of the IGCC.
Okay.
Just with respect to – you guys mentioned that you thought that the cost this is your best estimate at this time.
And obviously that could change.
But it would seem to me that as you guys get closer there should be less variation.
I mean I know that you’re obviously being cautious.
But can you give us any sense I mean you mentioned that there were several other steps that still have to be taking place.
Is there a potential for another big – is there something significant potentially that could happen here with this? I mean in other words could we see another write off like this potentially? I certainly hope not.
Listen you know how conservative we are.
This is our best estimate with everything that we know right now.
So that’s what we’re doing.
The ITC that you were talking about with Paul Ridzon that would mean that the plant would have to be available by 2014? If for some reason it wasn’t available in commercial operation by 2014 what kind of exposure would we be talking about it? Well with ITC there would be ratably given to customers over 30 years.
So what would say $133 million over 30 years that would be the annual affect? The other thing that Art mentioned just to add back is that additional ITC that’s associated with a 70% capture we can’t guarantee we’re going to get there or not but if we got that that would be additional $90 million.
So that could serve to offset if we missed some of the other.
So we’ll see.
And that goes to customers.
Is that right? Yeah ratably over time.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
And all of that is in our plan that we filed.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And at this time there are no further questions over the phone lines.
Sir are there any closing remarks? Well let me just close out by saying I appreciate everyone’s participation on the phone today.
Look this Kemper situation is something that we’re disappointed in.
I do want to say to you all and also to the thousands of employees that are involved in this this is not representative of the kind of performance The Southern Company delivers year in and year out.
When you think about our engineering and construction services group we have engineered constructed and put into service well over $20 billion of a gas generation fleet and an environmental control fleet under budget on time and better functionality than what we expected.
This is unusual performance for us and it’s something that we’re going to work very hard not to repeat.
So I just want to say to you all we’ve got our heads down.
We are focused on this and we’re going to do everything we can to improve performance going forward.
Thank you very much for your attention this afternoon.
We appreciate it.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude The Southern Company’s First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon.
My name is [Kamika] your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Southern Company Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Wednesday July 31 2013.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dan Tucker Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Planning.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you [Kamika] and welcome to Southern Company's second quarter 2013 earnings call.
Joining me this afternoon are Tom Fanning Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Company; and Art Beattie Chief Financial Officer.
Let me remind you that we will make forward-looking statements today in addition to providing historical information.
Various important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements including those discussed in our Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
In addition we will present non-GAAP financial information on this call.
Reconciliations to the applicable GAAP measure are included in the financial information we released this morning as well as the slides for this conference call.
To follow along during the call you can access these slides on our Investor Relations website at www.southerncompany.com.
Tom will open today's call with an update on regulatory activities as well as the latest on the construction on Plant Vogtle Unit 3 and 4 and Kemper County IGCC project.
Art will then provide an overview of our second quarter financial results as well as the discussion on sales and the economy and a brief update of our financing plans.
After closing remarks from Tom we will move to Q&amp;A.
At this time I’ll turn the call over to Tom Fanning.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
Our company continues to excel this longstanding mission of providing clean safe reliable and affordable energy to the customers and communities we serve and our 26 000 employees remain committed to the customer focus velocity that has been the firm foundation of our company’s FERC 100 years.
Throughout our business we are developing innovative solutions to the energy challenges that can fund our region and our nation.
We also continue through our traditional operating companies to engage constructively with elected and appointed officials at all levels of government.
In fact all of our operating companies have significant state regulatory activity in progress during 2013.
[In summer] Alabama Power completed a series of informal hearings two weeks ago to review the Rate Stabilization and Equalization or RSE rate setting process.
These hearings included constructive engagement by the public service commissioners staff interveners and the public.
We believe that Alabama Power demonstrated that its return on total invested capital is fair and reasonable and serve its customers’ long-term interest.
We expect to learn and results of this review later this summer.
Georgia Power has arguably the busiest calendar for the year with three major regulatory filings.
First Georgia Power filed an integrated resource plan in February which was recently approved by the Public Service Commission.
It was an important step forward in affirming Georgia Power plant for complying with the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards or MATS rule included in the PSC ruling was the decertification of approximately 2100 megawatts of older coal generation unit and fuel switching for another 1400 megawatts.
Second Georgia Power founded eighth Vogtle Construction Monitoring or VCM report in February and is currently in hearing regarding its request.
Georgia Power is seeking approval for actual cost of $209 million incurred from July through December of 2012.
As yet another demonstration of our constructive regulatory environment Georgia Power entered into a stipulation with the PSC staff today to weigh the requirement to amend the certified cost during construction.
This agreement which is subject to PSC approval recognizes that the VCM process already addresses the verification and approval of actual expenditures every six months.
This stipulation also will board the debating of the issues that maybe pertinent to Georgia Powers ongoing commercial dispute with the Vogtle 3 and four contractors.
The decision which will now only address actual cost through December 2012 is scheduled for October 15.
Third Georgia power has proposed a three-year rate plan and has asked to increase state rate by $482 million of the one-time increase in January 2014.
Hearing to the schedule to be held in October and November with the decision by the Georgia PSC scheduled for December 17.
Meanwhile Gulf Power has filed for a base rate increase of $74 million.
These rates will become effective in April of 2014.
We currently expect hearings to conclude in December with the decision in the first quarter of 2014.
Finally at Mississippi Power our hearing has been scheduled for October 1 to address the seven-year rate plan for Kemper County IGCC.
As a reminder this rate plan will cover the cost of the facility for the first seven years of operation consistent with the settlement agreement we reached with the Mississippi PSC in January of this year.
Finally I would like to give you an update on our Vogtle and Kemper County projects.
First plant Vogtle.
Our progress at plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 remained strong with more than 50% of construction now complete.
Since our last earnings call the Unit 3 containment vessel bottom head has been set and wall structures have taken shape throughout the nuclear island.
The Unit 3 containment vessel lower rank is more than 75% complete and the middle rank is more than 40% complete.
Meanwhile at Unit 4 the nuclear island waterproofing and mudmat activities were completed and the installation of basemat rebar is progressing well applying lessons learned from the same activity conducted for Unit 3.
Assembly of the Unit 4 containment vessel bottom head is also complete.
Aside the nuclear island work is proceeding on the turbine building foundation cooling tower structures and water intake structure and modifications are being made to existing switchyard and transmission equipment.
Upcoming major milestones are expected to be completed in the fourth quarter include the setting of the Unit 3 auxiliary building module also known as CA-20 and the placement of the first nuclear concrete in the Unit 4 nuclear island.
Vogtle remains a great value to Georgia Power customers.
We call that our regional estimate was for 12% rate increase for capital costs related to Vogtle plant 4 however taking into account all the benefits that have been realized since certification.
That estimate has been reduced to a range between 6% and 8% as well the remaining annual increases are expected to be less than 1% per year.
Meanwhile construction at the Kemper County energy facility is also progressing well.
Since our last earnings call the lignite mine has been placed into service and the final heavy lift as well as a significant portion of the start-up activity for the combined cycling unit have been completed.
Recognizing that piping is a key area of focus at this stage of the project it’s important to note that 90% of the piping has been fabricated and almost half is installed.
And then we have been achieving our key installation targets for steel [went high].
Looking ahead for the remainder of 2013 start-up activities include the first fire of the first combustion turbine in late August syncing the steam turbine to the grid in our service and heating up the first gasifier by year end.
Our May 14 in service state to which our construction start-up plans are tied remains achievable.
Yesterday afternoon Mississippi Power filed its latest project updates with the Mississippi Public Service Commission.
This update reflects the results of the most recent review of project activity and costs which included input from additional industry construction specialists.
The result of this review is an increase of $450 million to the project completion estimate which is reflected in the financial results we released this morning.
About half of this increase is for expected cost to achieve this schedule which is centered on two-key days the first gasifier heat up in late December and the in service date of May 2014.
About 30% of the increase is related to the changes in material and the remaining 20% is related to additional project contingency.
As a reminder we are ordering our commitments to Mississippi Power’s customers and regulators and are not seeking recovery of plant cost above the $2.88 billion cost cut net of the OE grants and exception to the cost cuts.
While productivity start-up and systems integration remain the most significant risk to the cost estimate and schedule the Kemper project team remains focused on executing our plans and safely completing this facility to provide Mississippi Power’s customers a clean safe reliable and affordable generation resource for decades to come.
I’ll now turn the call over to Art for a financial and economic overview.
Thanks Tom.
For the second quarter of 2013 we earned $0.34 per share compared to $0.71 per share in the second quarter of 2012 a decrease of $0.37 per share.
For the six months ended June 30 2013 we earned $0.43 per share compared to $1.14 per share for the same period in 2012 a decrease of $0.71 per share.
Our results for the second quarter 2013 include an after-tax charge against earnings of $278 million or $0.32 per share related to the increased cost estimates for construction of the Kemper project.
Recall that for the first quarter of 2013 we announced a similar after-tax charge of $333 million or $0.38 per share.
This brings the total of after-tax charges related to the Kemper project to $611 million or $0.70 per share for the six months ended June 30 2013.
As explained previously Mississippi Power will not seek recovery of estimated cost to complete the facility above the $2.88 billion cost cap net of DOE grants and exceptions to the cost cap.
Year-to-date 2013 also included an after-tax charge of $16 million or $0.02 per share for the restructuring of a leveraged leased investment recorded in the first quarter of 2013.
Also affecting year-over-year comparisons is a $21 million or $0.02 per share of an insurance recovery related to the 2009 litigation settlement with MC Asset Recovery LLC recorded during the second quarter of 2012.
Excluding these items earnings for the second quarter of 2013 were $0.66 per share compared with $0.69 per share for the second quarter of 2012 a decrease of $0.03 per share.
Earnings for the six months ended June 30 2013 excluding these items were a $1.15 per share compared with $1.12 per share for the same period in 2012 an increase of $0.03 per share.
The primary driver for our second quarter results was milder than expected weather resulting in a decrease of $0.04 per share on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
Weather was actually $0.03 per share below normal compared with $0.01 per share above normal for the same period a year ago.
As a point of interest the second quarter of 2013 featured the seventh highest level of rainfall in the past 50 years across all of Georgia and Alabama.
While this lower temperatures and contributed negatively to our earnings it also enabled us to increase hydroelectric generation by more than 400% compared to the second quarter of 2012.
Including the results of the first quarter this has resulted in fuel cost savings for customers of approximately $70 million this year further evidence of the significant value provided to our customers by a truly diverse generation portfolio.
A more detailed summary of our quarter-over-quarter drivers is included in the slide deck.
Turning now to a discussion of our economic outlook for the remainder of the year earlier this month we reengaged with our economic roundtable participants.
As a reminder this group consists of several regional economists and executives from a handful of our largest customers.
The group agreed that the national economic recovery is advancing but at a very slow pace.
GDP in the first quarter grew at 1.8% and estimates indicate that growth in the second quarter was likely less than 1.5%.
GDP growth in the second half of 2013 meanwhile is expected to be in the 1.5% to 2% range becoming slightly higher than that in 2014.
Economic uncertainty continues to hinder the recovery with businesses focusing on issues such as global economic health costs associated with the Affordable Care Act and U.S.
fiscal and monetary policy.
We believe that all of these issues are affecting electricity usage among all three of Southern company's customer categories.
The roundtable participants also reaffirmed however that the Southeast is once again on track to outpace the national recovery with the State of Georgia setting the pace.
In our regions commercial and residential sectors real estate developers and retailers are more upbeat based on consistent sales levels increased construction activity and upward pressure on land and property pricing.
Industrial customers meanwhile have had a somewhat more tempered outlook on the second half of 2013 driven by the recent slowing of exports and cautious inventory management.
However there is good news in certain segments with auto production shifting from Asia to the U.S.
and increased reshowing activity in appliances and textiles.
In terms of retail sales results for 2013 year-to-date weather normal sales for all customer classes reflect a decline of 0.7% versus 2012.
Adjusted for the leap year effect overall sales growth is essentially flat.
Focusing on the second quarter total weather normal retail sales decreased 0.5% when compared with the same period in 2012.
Industrial sales grew 0.6% for the second quarter of 2013 compared to the second quarter of 2012.
Of our top eight segments representing more than 70% of second quarter industrial sales six reflected positive growth.
Perhaps more importantly seven of the eight reflected better year-over-year growth in the second quarter of 2013 than they did in the first quarter even when adjusting for the leap year effect.
Segments exhibiting the highest growth during the second quarter were primarily in the housing-related segments such as textiles at 4.2%; lumber at 12.2%; and stone clay and glass at 5.9%.
Residential sales declined 0.5% and commercial sales declined 1.6% during the second quarter of 2013 on a weather normal basis compared with the second quarter of 2012.
From an economic development standpoint the positive momentum of last year has carried over into 2013 as the Southeast continues to be successful in attracting new industry.
The State of Georgia for instance is bringing in manufacturing distribution and new corporate headquarters as well as communications IT and life sciences industries.
PulteGroup a construction company and PointClear Solutions a bioscience firm are relocating their headquarters to Atlanta while General Motors InfoSystems Ernst &amp; Young and Aetna Health are all bringing well-paying IT jobs to Atlanta.
Georgia is also bringing new film studios into the state with the help of tax incentives.
For instance Midian Studios is building a studio complex outside of Savannah and is expected to create 1 200 jobs while Pinewood Shepperton plc the producer of the James Bond series is building a $1 billion movie studio near Atlanta.
According to the Institute of Supply Management 19 states are leading the U.S.
manufacturing resurgence and Alabama and Mississippi are amongst those at the top.
As expressed recently by the Chairman of Airbus Americas Alabama puts forth an exceptional and well-coordinated effort in locating new industry such as Airbus (indiscernible) Mercedes-Benz and ThyssenKrupp just to name a few.
This focus on economic development is basic to our DNA across all of our traditional operating companies.
As we continue to work together to encourage economic growth for our region.
Moving now to an update of our financing plan for 2013 we have so far this year issued $1.4 billion of debt securities with an average life of 19 years and then have average rate of 3.1%.
Our plans include issuing another $2 billion of debt by year-end.
Turning now to our equity issuances factoring in the updated Kemper cost estimates we have updated our financing plan to include approximately $520 million for the remainder of 2013 and approximately $600 million in 2014.
We plan to begin issuing new shares through our employee and dividend reinvestment plans in August shortly after filing our second quarter 10-Q.
We should be well positioned relative to our long-term equity ratio of approximately 44% by year-end 2014.
Our industry leading financial integrities in A credit ratings continue to be priorities for us as they have served our customers and investors so well for years.
Now I’d like to share our earnings estimate for the third quarter of 2013 which will be $1.13 per share.
I’ll now turn the call back over to Tom for his closing remarks.
Thanks Art.
As our business environment evolves Southern Company remains the same and enterprise that succeed by excelling at the fundamental and relying on the knowledge skills and dedications of our people.
As always we continue to focus on the long-term with customers at the center of everything we do.
It enables us to deliver excellent value drivers including our commitments just relating financial integrity regular predictable sustainable growth in earnings per share and likewise dependable dividend to growth.
We are now ready to take your questions.
So operator we’ll now take the first question.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi Greg.
Good afternoon guys.
First question is on sort of near-term long-term earnings aspiration.
I know that you guys expect GDP growth to be better in the second half.
What can/would you do if we get into the deep into the third quarter and we are still seeing economic conditions sort of below your expectations.
Do you have the ability to manage your cost profile such that we could still be comfortable with this year's earnings guidance? Yeah I believe that.
Yeah Greg we kind of looked at the sensitivities around that.
Of course weather in the first half was less than what we expected to be and we flexed around O&amp;M to offset some of that.
As we look at the end of the year if I were to assume that we would get no loan growth through the remainder of this year.
The O&amp;M flex is actually less than what the O&amp;M flex would be last year in terms of our ability to move around that.
Last year we made up $0.11 of negative weather I think… About 7.5% reduction in on-field O&amp;M from what we had planned.
All right.
So we feel confident.
Okay.
And then longer-term is there a reason why your earnings per share growth rate slide is not in this deck as it was in the first quarter where you are targeting 4% to 6% long-term growth off 2013? No not really.
Let's just kind of lay out what we do know.
So if you lay out the equity issuances that Art described kind of year-by-year dilutive impact of that this year is like $0.015 next year is like $0.025 and the third year is $0.02 cumulatively that $0.015 $0.04 $0.06.And that that's our best guess at this point okay.
Outside of that we've got all of these – as I described in detail we have all of these regulatory proceedings going and you know that the outcome of the Georgia hearings are really important to our forward earnings forecast.
So we’re very confident and our forecast for the year earnings range we described and as has been our practice and everything else once we get a little more clarity on these regulatory issues we will cover long-term guidance as we always do in our January call.
Right.
So when I look at the financing in the CapEx plans which you've alluded to here were $1 billion higher over the next three years relative to the deck that you showed us on the Q4 call.
And it looks like the majority of that is in generation and I'm presuming that the vast majority of that's Kemper? That's correct.
But you are also somewhat higher on T&amp;D which obviously gives rate base growth so that's positive and there were some other small things.
But it looks like the vast majority is the generation right? Yes sir.
Okay.
Thank you very much guys.
Of course the swing yeah and the other swing factors will be how active we are at Southern Power.
Correct.
Right yeah that was my last part of the question was then those Southern Power numbers are to some degree placeholders for opportunistic transactions to either build or require assets is that right? Perfect.
That's it.
Got it.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Operator: Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Lapides Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey Michael.
Hey Tom real quickly following a little bit on Greg's question about Southern Power how much of that CapEx $2.4 billion or so is actually spoken for at this point? Well we just closed the deal early I guess in the first quarter on Campo Verde and the amount of total investment there is about $450 million.
So there will be some equity allocated to that.
But the rest are still placeholders and we're actively working on other projects but we are not in a position to make any statements at this time.
Yeah you know that our practice is to only announce stuff when it's basically done.
I mean we are closed on some things but we’ll only announce that when we have clarity.
Understood.
But it's an area where if you wanted to – if projects didn't meet the return hurdles compared to some of the regulated businesses you can alternatively invest in you could ratchet down CapEx from this number at Southern Power pretty quickly? Sure.
The other issue is as with all of our companies we have maintenance requirements which requires capital et cetera.
But you're right I mean to the extent we want to ratchet back capital at Southern Power that is absolutely at our discretion.
And is there anything in the incremental CapEx in the new generation line incremental related to Vogtle? No.
Okay thanks.
Thanks guys much appreciated.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Angie Storozynski Macquarie Capital.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey Angie how are you? Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
So I might have missed it but how do you incorporate the impact of those write-downs of Kemper County on your equity needs? And should I worry about a potential increase in dilution if those write-downs were to occur again? Yeah Angie that was what I laid out when I was talking with Greg.
The annual dilutive impacts of the actions we've taken today are $0.015 in 2013 $0.025 in 2014 and $0.02 more in 2015 that relates to the timing of the issuance of the equity okay.
Yeah but that assumes that there are no additional write-downs wherein you haven't really started the gasifier yet and isn't that the most crucial portion of the IGCC plant? That's right.
Let me just repeat though just to be very clear with everybody.
I gave you individual years in the aggregate to give you the aggregate effect.
It’s $0.015 in 2013; aggregate $0.04 aggregate $0.06 in 2014 and 2015.
And you are right so we believe we’ve taken action including adding $100 million to contingency.
Most of that is related to the start-up and you are correct.
The most important issues going forward really move away for materials to the start-up processes.
And when we talk about meeting schedule it’s important for us to highlight two guideposts if you will two milestones.
Obviously the endpoint is targeted in Service Day May of 2014.
The most important milestone prior to that then will be achieving first fire in the gasifier which we expect to achieve by year-end 2013.
Okay.
Great and separately could you tell us anything about Alabama.
I mean I see that you are showing a projected decision but is there a possibility for settlements maybe some agreement on shedding some of the ROE and increasing your equity ratios?  The words we used were very intentional.
When you look at Alabama's return on total invested capital taking into account equity ratios embedded cost of capital they have one of the most attracted debt balance sheet off of the benefit of their customers in the utility industry.
We think that they are in a very fair position.
Rather than get what the Commission might do let's wait and see.
We think we'll get some clarity reasonably soon there.
Okay and my last question is what's going on with the legal dispute with Shaw? So recall Shaw was purchased by Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron and the dispute really goes to the consortium which is Westinghouse Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron and the leader of consortium is Toshiba okay.
I can't give you much of an update except to say this we could settle that shortly or it could get into a prolonged mode and go to litigation in which case it would just be whenever the litigation is concluded; might take some time.
I will say that we think that the acquisition of Shaw by Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron was positive in terms of our ability to negotiate and resolve that dispute.
But in terms of giving you any further clarity as to amounts or timing we're really not in a position to do that.
I'll say one more thing.
The decision by the Georgia – the situation essentially the breach of the (inaudible) and we think there's soon to be approval of the Georgia Public Service Commission with respect of eliminating the need for the recertification process.
They recognized as one of the important factors as they don't want to get issues like that in front of our ability to negotiate successfully with the consortium.
All of this I think is constructive.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you Angie.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Please proceed with your question.
Ali how are you?  Hey Tom.
How are you doing? Great.
Just to be clear on the stipulation.
So if I understood you correctly you have said that you’re going to withdraw your request to certify the increase in the construction cost is that what you're seeing in that stipulation?  Yeah there is two factors that I think people recognize.
When you consider the effectiveness of the VCM process that is essentially a process whereby the Commission evaluates and reviews and approves six months' worth of construction on some lagged basis it's typically lagged six months.
So in essence right now in front of the Commission our cost related to July 2012 to December of 2012.
We will hear their decision in October.
This is the eighth time we've been through the Vogtle Construction Monitor process.
We think it's working exceedingly well.
They have an independent monitor Dr.
Bill Jacobs and that process is going exceedingly smoothly and we feel like that process is essentially developed the standards where you to layer on top of that another process to recertify the plant.
So what we've decided and what we've stipulated to shall we say is eliminate the need to recertify.
Just let the VCM processes work so there will be VCM 8 9 10 and so on until the conclusion of the project.
We feel like that accomplishes the same thing in terms of evaluating costs.
And of course the other thing I just mentioned was you don't want to get issues out in front of the negotiation in terms of being able to resolve successfully the commercial dispute.
Right but to be clear then so what you are seeing Tom is that both any extra cost that you incur as well as any delays that you may incur is that still – I mean your sense is that through the VCM assuming they approve it that should implicitly improve any cost overruns et cetera?  Yeah and here again I’m just going to pick a little bit.
I wouldn't call those cost overruns.
I know there are increases in cost but remember the math here originally we were at 12% associated with the capital cost of Vogtle 3 and 4 now we think we are between 6% and 8%.
The remaining annual price increases that we expect to complete Vogtle 3 and 4 less than 1% a year.
The $381 million largely increases in cost that are associated with changing the schedule as we have are largely not exclusively but largely associated with our own required oversite cost.
Recall that the brick and mortar cost of Vogtle 3 and 4 over this period has only increased 0.5%.
So we think all of these things work exceptionally well.
And any of this increase to $381 million will not cause an increase in rates to customers.
So we think that VCM process is going to handle this exceptionally well and we don't really need to go through the recertification that was originally contemplated.
Great.
Secondly just to clarify as you walk through the math on the equity issuance that you now factored into your plan and the $0.06 of dilution through 2015.
So when we factored than in does that still keep you on that 4% to 6% EPS growth rate or does everything ratchet down by that $0.06 is the way we should be thinking about this So the question that we will address in January that I mentioned before there is a lot in front of us right now in the state regulatory plate if you will and obviously the biggest issue there is Georgia's triennial rate case.
The second probably biggest right now will be the Alabama decision; of course a bit is related to the Gulf decision and of course we have the ongoing process in Mississippi.
I think it's best for us all to understand if we're talking about $0.015 and another $0.025 in 2014 I mean that all feels very manageable to me.
But what we've got to do rather than try and reassess long-term growth rates is let these processes go through we'll give you a lot more clarity once we know how we end up in all four of our jurisdictions at the end of this year.
This is just a big regulatory year for us.
And so last question Tom looking at Kemper today with all the information and the extra roughly $1 billion of cost is that project still as attractive to you as you thought it would be going in frankly given where we are today? Let me split that into two answers.
Is it attractive to Mississippi's customers as we honor the regulatory settlement that we reach it has the economics of a nuclear plant; relatively high capital cost very cheap energy.
It's exceedingly attractive in that respect.
Is it attractive to Southern shareholders? No.
We are taking a hit here.
We understand that nobody here is happy about that but that's the honest truth.
Thank you.
Yes sir.
Thank you (Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon.
Please proceed with your question.
Mr.
Ridzon is with KeyBanc.
Hey Paul.
Good afternoon.
Paul good afternoon.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Are you reaffirming guidance? I wasn’t quite clear.
We typically don't do that.
We give guidance once a year and then we give estimates every quarter but if you're asking are we confident for the year yeah we are.
Okay thanks.
I’ll (inaudible).
Thank you.
Our next question is from Steve Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi Steve.
Yeah hi Tom.
Just a clarification on the equity issuance plans.
So at the beginning of the year I think you guys had ranges of zero to $300 million a year.
Should we kind of assume that you are now kind of doing the $300 million for both 2013 2014 and then adding another $700 million essentially for Kemper?   Yeah I think that's – Steve this is Art I think that's fair.
I think if you go back to where we were the way we think about we kind of wipe out zero to $300 million now.
We're taking into account the needs for equity capital at Mississippi and possible equity capital needed for Southern Power and that's what the new numbers represent.
And we’ve already suggested we've done Campo Verde which is $450 million.
Okay.
So I guess obviously time is just that reflecting more confidence that you are going to do the Southern Power projects or is it more just wanting to kind of have extra balance sheet strength given all those stuff around?  Yeah there are some placeholders out there that we are providing for but it is also a supply thing.
When you go out and raise equity capital you can't just turn it off.
So… Right …let you shut down your program.
I think we are conservative.
So I think it is a conservative estimate.
Okay.
And then I apologize just on clarifying the Georgia stipulation.
Yeah.
So you would still do the annual reviews of the six month cost but the full recertification of the project with updated data you would not do? Yeah essentially eliminate waive the rule… Waive the rule to do full – and that's from here on in that's not just this time? Yeah.
That's right and just let the VCM process work.
Okay.
Everybody is happy with I think the way that works out.
There is one nuance and I am actually glad you raised the question again because remember in VCM 8 normally it’s a six month process and because we were going to do recertification and all that other stuff we extended the timeframe from August into October.
And so what we are going to do on that would give you either an overlap or a contracted period for VCM 9.
What we’re essentially going to do is roll VCM 9 and 10 together.
So we’ll probably make some filing around VCM 9 but that will go through the evaluation of that cost along with the filing associated with VCM 10.
So imagine if you will 9 and 10 being rolled together then we’ll be back on this six months cycle.
Okay.
And just do other parties to the case kind of agree with this I know it was just filed today but do you expect there will opposition to this settlement do you think everyone will agree? I can't speak for the parties Steve.
I think the Commission will approve it.
Okay.
And I think wasn’t the report coming out from the examiner shortly?  I don’t know what you’re talking about.
From the independent monitor sorry.
Friday.
Friday.
Is that still going to come out? I think so.
Okay.
Okay thank you.
Yes sir.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi Jonathan.
Inc.</strong> Hi.
The last question Steve asked was what I was going to ask.
To follow that up with there has been some noise in sort of local press about the Governor talking about potential sharing of additional cost of Vogtle.
Could you have any comment on that Tom?  Yeah.
Absolutely we've been in contact with the Governor about that.
Actually look the Governor has been resolute in his support to this project.
We think that quote that has been widely reported probably over-reported in our view was taken out of context.
The quote that people are referring to which him responding to what something somebody else said and there were statements after that quote.
It really relates to he think Georgia Power is doing a terrific job at the project and those project is great.
The State of Georgia is proud to help lead the renaissance and variety of other things.
I would not view that quote taken by itself to lead to anything that says the Governor lead to anything that says the Governor wants something other than the process that is currently being followed to happen nobody is suggesting that.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then on Kemper it seems like this latest cost increase had to do with the review you've been doing since you changed the management.
And you have couple of places in your disclosures you suggest that this is something you'll be continuing to do on the go forward.
Can you just give us any more comfort or characterize how this analysis is done and how your confidence level say versus when you took the initial big write-down before you changed management? So if you recall the first adjustment we made was right on the heels frankly it was a surprise to everybody and it was right on the heels of all the big changes that we made.
We also disclosed that in fact an ongoing review was occurring.
And recall the first review was tied up I would argue mostly with the issues related to material and price and quantities and metallurgy and all sorts of things and not just price it was cable and hangers and everything else.
So that's kind of what I would say most of that was and it was our best estimate at the time but we all were very clear that there was more to go and we had to go back and look very closely.
I would argue that the 450 is characterized I would say the whole group and now we have – we brought the bear not only the outsiders and insiders we've been using but construction industry specialists particularly in gas handling systems outside construction management evaluators we have a variety of people in the boat right now.
Like for example when we evaluated the contingency that we had this $100 million extra contingency we actually had five different estimates of contingency that were resolved into one estimate.
It has been a very very thorough review.
And just to tell you this is nothing that is arm’s length me and my management team we have something called an Executive Review Board that’s me and Art; and then it’s Paul Bowers of Georgia Power he used to be President of Generation; Charles McCrary CEO of Alabama he used to be President of Generation; Mark Crosswhite our COO; Kim Greene our CEO of Southern Company Services; she actually had experience in generation at TVA.
We had Chris Womack.
I am probably leaving some people out but we all went out to the plant site and spent a whole afternoon diving into all of the details with management.
Recall leading the management team is the new CEO there Ed Holland and then we have our best construction guy Ashley Baker and a variety of other people.
And we’ve really torn these numbers apart.
It is our best estimate.
If I had to tell you where the future exposure may occur I think it relates to schedule.
Interestingly if you go back to some of the accounting issues we had after the year-end restatement of first quarter and everything else was worries and perhaps lack of evidence about our ability to double the productivity of installing pipe for example in a month.
Well in fact in the month of June we did that.
So these were things that people were questioning and looking hard at.
In fact the team on the ground accomplished that very challenging objective.
So it’s a challenge but the report so far is that we believe the targets are achievable related to schedule and that is where I think the biggest risk is right now.
Inc.</strong> Okay thanks Tom.
Can I just ask one other thing on – in the release you sort of stressed the rainfall situation and mild temperatures and tie a lot of that together so went on in the economy in the second quarter.
I think weather have sort of become a little more normal in the first month of Q3.
Have you seen things to set back on to trajectory or is? Hey Jonathan it may have been normal in New York it’s been awful here.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
It’s raining right now.
It’s unbelievable how much.
It’s just didn’t mild let me just put it that way but lots and lots of rainfall.
Inc.</strong> So whatever you were saying Q2 you’re continuing to see it? Yeah it got a little warmer kind of at the end of July.
But today again it’s cloud cover and rain.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So we will see.
I think let me just give you a little more line we would like to do that.
What is normal weather? How much of that we had? I’m looking at Art right now.
Yeah Jonathan if you go back and look at above normal weather in the last 22 months we’ve had three months out of those 22 that were above normal.
I know you said it was the seventh weather quarter for Alabama and Georgia it was the second weather quarter for Georgia in the past 50 years.
This is just extraordinary what we’re living through right now.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thanks for all the color Tom.
Yes sir.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Julian Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good afternoon.
Can you hear me? Yes sir can hear you fine.
Excellent so quick question and again this kind of relates back to SCANA’s comments at the Analyst Day but when it comes to the timeline for Vogtle and receipt of modules how is that going? I mean they talked at least initially about receiving some parts perhaps ahead of schedule versus others.
So are you seeing anything like that maybe offset some of the pressures on schedule that we’ve talked about thus far? Well look I think the major milestones that we pointed out in the fourth quarter will be CA20 it’s kind of the major critical path for us and then of course flooring the basemat in Unit 4.
So those are the two big ones.
We have seen an improvement.
we’ve noted and if you read the Independent Monitors’ report that has been an area of concern for some time is getting material out of the manufacturing facility in the Louisiana.
My sense is now that the material is being manufactured.
it’s really now focused on getting nuclear quality documentation related to the material that is being delivered.
That’s what we’re working on now.
We’ve sent our own people to the site.
That process is improving and recall too that Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron’s acquisition of Shaw we think it is a big plus to improving that situation.
Excellent.
And then going back to the IGCC side of the equation you talked about short-term debt last go around to the kind plug the balance sheet if you will temporarily.
Is that all out of the picture here? Just want to be very clear I mean you talked all about equity but just want to be sure on the debt side.
What’s going on there? Yeah.
And again I think we mentioned that it’s resolving Southern’s equity ratio back to a point before we began with the write-offs associated with the plant that would be 43.5% 44% and getting Mississippi by that same timeframe back to close to their 50% which is contemplated in their seven or eight plant.
So there maybe some intermittent that and downloading but we’re not going to fund the cash to Mississippi until they needed to do the construction additions that we’d outline.
And that’s what we thought it was kind of instructive to give you the year-by-year effect that we’re seeing right now.
Of course you could see some variance there.
Great.
so all of that’s out of the way the equities will be done now resolved everything? Yeah.
what we’d describe relates to the effects of Kemper completely.
Great.
Thank you.
Yeah sir.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Crowdell with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey.
How are you guys? Good.
Good.
How are you? So far so good.
Hopefully two softball questions the first one relates to the Great State of Alabama and there was language in the press you saw – you read from some of the commissions in Alabama that there may be some change in Alabama’s rates or whatever.
Just what is the processes has that become like if there’s a decision to maybe change the rate structure for Alabama Power has that become a full litigated rate proceeding and if rates were reduced it’s more of end of 2014 event than maybe an end of 2013 event? And the second question is your relative potential exposure or what could potentially be higher in Kemper would be maybe scheduling.
Is there a way that – is the company I guess tied down to getting the unit on line is there a certain date or if you don't make the schedule why spend the money; whatever not work three shifts or whatever you're doing just to get the unit I guess finished with a lower cost estimate? Hey well let me take Kemper; you take Alabama.
Art used to be the CFO of Alabama.
He knows that State intimately.
Look we're spending some extra money every month now in order to hit the date.
I mean we've talked about that before.
And remember the first milestone the focus on is to get that gasifier heat up by the end of the year so 12/31 is kind of what we want to do there.
What we save by spending more money now is exposure beyond the in-service date is essentially whatever is going to be required to continue to get startup complete plus carrying cost plus whatever and depending on how regulations works.
So this is kind of a murky area.
We'll have more clarity on this probably later in the year.
But the additional cost beyond May could be somewhere between $15 million a month and $14 million a month and all that's driven by kind of how you recover the AFUDC what happens to the test revenues to the electricity you sell as you continue to start-up process how the regulatory capture mechanisms will work and how much more kind of maintenance you will have to do in order to complete start-up.
So I know that's a wide range but it's a whole range of factors that we are looking at.
In any event we think that the actions we're taking now that relate to increased cost to meet schedule is a dominant solution and represents no regrets; ultimately delivering we think long-term great value to customers.
Art why don't you talk about Alabama? Yeah Anthony on the question about where does Alabama go and what kind of arrangement does it become more formal or does it become some kind of agreement.
It's really hard to say at this point but I would imagine that it would be some kind of consent agreement that both the commission and the company would sign on to but again that's a function of whatever the outcome of the commission's recommendation would be.
Great.
Thank you for your time guys.
You bet.
Thank you.
Operator Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Mark Barnett with Morningstar Equity Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey Mark.
Hey good afternoon.
Hey how are you doing? Good.
One quick question that you've covered the big construction projects a lot so I'll leave that.
But I wanted to talk a little bit about the power usage situation.
I know that there was a lot of impact from the weather but I cannot look at the commercial and wonder a little bit about what's going on there so far in the year and wonder if you could provide a little bit of color on – and what you think is driving that kind of the decline? Yeah Mark we kind of look at that as well we were up in the first quarter on a weather normal basis.
We're down in the second quarter on a weather normal basis.
And as we look back over the last six or seven quarters commercial has been very volatile so it's kind of hard to get a pattern of growth.
But as we think about it in the second quarter anyway the lot of rainfall certainly has an effect on temperatures certainly has an effect on usage from that perspective but we think it also impacts recreational activity which reflects a lot of usage in the summer time going to the beach in the rain or going to amusement park what have you.
These are just kind of examples and we try to cite to ourselves but it’s again it’s a contrary to us as well.
So let me give you an example.
You would not believe the depth we go to they get our keen information and try and get some enlightenment about this.
We actually measure the traffic on the Pensacola Beach Bridge and in fact in the second quarter the traffic on the Pensacola Beach Bridge was down 10%.
what that tells you is nobody wants to go sit on the beach when it’s raining.
Likely and I have heard this from some other folks at the fed likely it reduces traffic to restaurants I mean things like that moves itself.
So I think that’s what we’re seeing here is just a lack of activity or reduced activity as a result.
All right fair enough.
I think this is going to be a little bit bigger picture.
and I know MATS obviously a much bigger impact on your fleet.
but I’m just wondering if you could share some thoughts you’ve got the rehearing of CSAPR here in October and the administration’s new draft rule “on CO2” something that’s probably far out in 2015 but it’s kind of a line in the sand I guess.
So I’m wondering what your feeling is around the political situation and how that might play out?  So I’ll take the political situation in GHG.
I’ll let you take the rest of the stuff if you want to how about that? So it’s pretty clear I think that there is a succession of move increased regulation around carbon intensive energy forms.
and the latest I think is greenhouse gases the President came out and made an important speech in our view about that.
Here is kind of our beliefs on that.
Number one nothing that President said to us was terribly surprising; I think we wait to see how the details emerge so that will be key.
our sense is consistent with what I think general beliefs are and it’s what we’ve suggested in other calls that probably the end of the summer sometime they will come out with some standard for new sources and probably 2014 will be existing sources.
Recall there are important considerations that will need to be made in order to understand the aggregate effect of everything going on in EPA in terms of regulations because you just had this big math rule that caused certain companies to spend billions of dollars.
now it impacted us more in terms of shifting away from coal and shutting down some coal plants and converted some coal plants.
We already had our scrubbers and SCR is pretty much in place.
The other thing that’s just interesting to know I mean think about Southern’s position relative to almost anybody else in the industry.
When you think about new sources and exposure to carbon intensity we’re leading the renaissance of nuclear in America no carbon.
We are going to get done successfully with Kemper County that has a carbon footprint equivalent to or less than natural gas.
So that’s positive.
We’ve made a huge shift away from coal to gas to where we used to be 70% energy from coal now we’re 45% with gas.
we’re the third largest consumer of natural gas in United States.
We have extended our reach either through ownership or through contracts with now about 1 200 megawatts in about the last 12 months in terms of renewable that’s for procuring wind energy and either procuring solar or owning solar.
When you consider that plus what we’ve already been doing in terms of energy efficiency.
It’s easy for me to say that it would be hard to find somebody that’s doing more in terms of kind of handling the GHG issue in a very practical – both tactical and strategic way.
Finally we continue to be the only company in our industry invested in proprietary robust research and development.
We continue to work on new ideas.
We continue to promote energy innovation.
and I think that will be a keystone of ours going forward.
In terms of things away from carbon I’ll let Art comment on that.
Yeah Mark.
I guess the biggest item we’re dealing with right now would be the new affluent guidelines that were published in the proposed rules that were published in June.
Our comments are due in September I think they outlined eight different options with four preferred.
we’re evaluating a lot of data around these and we will be involved in commenting on the rules by that September date.
Don’t really have a good feel in terms of cost related to that at this point.
The other rule as you’re probably aware coal ash the final rule timing is still uncertain but it might not be until next year.
That’s certainly the biggest element in terms of cost for us.
and then of course 316(b) those rules were postponed from April till November.
and we’ll get a better chance to see what that final rule looks like as well.
But the biggest element of the three of those is probably the ash rule and there is a number of other things going on as well but I’ll stop at that point.
All right.
Thanks a lot guys.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your questions.
Good afternoon Dan Hey.
Just question on the solar program in Georgia they got approved by the commission during the quarter.
Just kind of and when we could see action? You bet.
So 525 megawatts were approved 100 of that I think it’s targeting distributed generation which I’ve talked about at some length in the past.
And then kind of the other 425 would be your more traditional central station approaches.
So that’s part of the 2013 IRP Integrated Resource Plan that is competitive road.
in other words anybody can go through a process and try and win the business.
What we have said internally is that we’d like to win a good bit of that business.
And so there’s really three ways at least three ways we can attack it.
One is the Georgia retail approach essentially rate basis another would be Georgia wholesale that is Georgia providing generation on a wholesales basis like they do on some of their other energy contracts third will be essentially Southern Power or something similar to Southern Power owning it.
Now the only nuance Dan I’ll throw on you there is distributed generation is enough of a different animal.
We may take even a special business unit approach to that.
we may pull together some folks in the system and take a look at kind of how we might approach that business.
That’s much more a people-intensive business than these central-station approaches.
And then finally recall that anybody they goes after this business will have to pass essentially an evaluation by an independent monitor that will regularly as they do here assess competitive bid.
Tom when do you think you could have more on that and would that be potentially carve out of money if you think we’re going to Southern Power or do you think that would be your additive to the CapEx program in the slides today? I don’t know I don’t think it’s near-term.
I bet you I don’t know when soonest you could probably get stuff done maybe by 2015 2016 somewhere in that timeframe those will be kind of when I think the generation would come in.
So back up a little bit so a year or two in advance of that something like that.
Okay got it.
And then on just accounting anytime you guys give a good rundown on the industrial side.
but can you talk a little bit about residential as far as household formation and home construction looks right now and yeah down demand for residential how deep are the usage reductions you guys are seeing amongst that customer price? Yeah this is Art.
What we’ve seen so far is we’ve added year-to-date about 15 000 new customers new meters to our systems and our estimate for the year was about 24 000.
So we’re making good progress on that front.
However we look at the usage of some of those new customers; a lot of them are multifamily rent units some are single family homes but the vast majority I think are multifamily.
And the way I kind of view it Dan is you build a new multifamily apartment building and it's occupied over time.
So our usage per customer for those new units is way down.
And I think there is a function of getting people to move in fully and to occupy those residences as a normal customer would.
That will turn around.
And we think that's part of our second half equation.
But again we've done a bit better than what we've expected on new customer growth and with the housing improving here in Atlanta and in Georgia.
We see that continuing again with all the announced jobs IT type jobs in and around Atlanta that will be attracting new people into the state will certainly put more pressure on that equation as well.
When you guys look at kind of the relationship between usage in GDP and that sort of thing if you look out to say 2014 2015.
What kind of load growth do you think is durably sustainable once we get past kind of the slow first half of this year if we do see a recovery? Well it is our kind of long-term estimate.
Heuristic it's still pretty good 50% to 60% of GDP growth.
So that's kind of what we've been doing.
So the other thing it's interesting in fact we've just had a guy come speak to our Board.
Dan one of the interesting thing that really confounds people I think the people especially to think that energy efficiency is going to deplete electricity usage is that the economy is getting more and more electrified.
And there is all sorts of interesting dynamics when I give these speeches I always hold up my iPhone at that point.
So we have all these juicy devices in here your arm.
But it is kind of much more than that.
When you stream something like you want to watch some episode of Mad Men or something you watch it for an hour on your iPad.
It isn't just what's going on in your house you are lighting up servers all over the place.
There are much more significant compound effect of greater bandwidth in the information economy that are electricity intensive.
And we think and the work that we all have done and we showed this at the last fall financial conference we continue to see the evidence.
That in fact electricity consumption is trumping the drag by energy efficiency.
So we think we'll see this for some time.
Longer term electricity sales we would think would be in the 1.3% range.
I guess one last question because it's been regionally tropical has been kind of the long-term contracted generation going into some sort of yield coal mechanism where you can offer a big yield off the cash flows and then raise capital when you need to invest.
Have you guys you've always done this before.
But have you guys looked at Southern Power as potentially unlocking some value going that route? When you think about Southern Power and the long-term contracted business that it already has it is such a well good match to our regulated model.
It really doesn't differentiate it like it would for say NRG and provide them with that benefit.
Southern Company is already a deal co in a way I think but… Here is the other way to answer that.
We look at everything all the time and we will look at the deal co concept.
I am not sure unlocking value with Southern Power serves our long-term interest.
We used the other word here that in the world of finance there is lots of tricks and no magic.
We really like the way our pieces fit together now.
If it ever does make sense and provide sustaining value increase rather than instant gratification we will do that.
But we remain committed to a long-term prompter on those issues.
Very good.
Thank you guys.
Yes sir.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Videla Marti with CDP Capital.
Please proceed with your question.
Good afternoon.
Videla? Yeah.
Hey how are you? I’m doing well thank you.
I'm wondering I missed the very beginning the date on which you expect to hear from the commission in Alabama? And secondarily I think the if I recall properly the ROE adjustments we've seen for a much smaller gas LDCs has been in the range of about 200 basis points roughly.
So I'm wondering if you could just remind us what your sensitivity is at Alabama Power for with regards to I'll call it 100 basis points or whatever adjustments on the current ROE range you have.
So let me just first say and we said this in I think we said a little bit in the script we said it in our first question.
Look we think the ROIC that Alabama enjoys is appropriate and serves our customers’ long-term interest and in fact when you consider the equity ratio the debt ratio the embedded cost of capital Alabama is reasonable and fair.
Number one let's not get ahead of what the commission wants to do but that's our position.
In terms of when the commission will rule it’s just going to be in the months ahead.
We don't think it's going to be six months but I think it will be in the next quarter or so.
There is no president in Alabama for doing anything retroactive I think the decisions – I don't call anything from the decisions from Mobile and whatever that had anything to do retroactive for the full year of 2013 this is all perspective correct? That's our understanding.
But you remember Mobile and Alabama are completely different they have a much thicker equity ratio than Alabama does.
I would hesitate to draw parallel between one company and another.
The other thing that would be fun to work at is if you could get a view of the webcast or whatever of – any of the proceedings.
Alabama enjoys a lot of support by its customers.
I think Alabama demonstrated successfully their side of the art.
All right Tom.
Thank you very much.
Yes sir thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
LLC</strong> Hey good morning.
Paul how are you? LLC</strong> How are you doing? (inaudible).
LLC</strong> First of all if the Kemper schedule for coming online slips past to 2014 spring deadline what happens to the deal we subsidy? Is there any risk there or… Well you lose them.
LLC</strong> You lose them for sure? You lose ITC.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Not the deal DOE stuff I'm sorry.
So the $133 million investment tax credit is what you would lose I'm sorry I thought you were referring to LLC</strong>  Okay  It's not the deal we're funding… LLC</strong> The deal we're funding with refine money.
Yes.
LLC</strong> Just sort of bigger picture here Vogtle is the first new neutral plant in decades.
And I mean just how do we see it in terms of in the context of Kemper? I mean obviously Kemper has been a disappointment as you mentioned in terms of what was projected and what happened in terms of costs.
Could just I mean not any great detail but just sort of a bigger picture obviously it's understandable that somebody might simply think hey that Kemper which is also sort of a cutting-edge technology kind of thing why won't that happen at Vogtle? Yeah.
Let me give you a simple answer.
LLC</strong> Yeah simple.
The simplest answer is we agreed to a cost cap was only about 10% to 15% of the engineering done and what's happened is as we've completed the engineering we ran into the problem that oh my goodness we're going to run over on cost and schedule and we've reduced the schedule.
At the same time we agreed to the price cut.
That actually occurred in early 2010 okay.
We didn't know we had a problem then.
But in fact that's when we had a problem.
We only knew we had the problem once the engineering became complete and we saw the implications of the rapid construction.
By any investigation that we've done here the construction has actually been exceedingly effective okay.
That is completely the opposite of what we have seen in Vogtle because recall the licensing process by the NRC.
Remember there were two pieces the DCD the Design Control Document was essentially a large scale engineering effort of the technology AP1000 and then the COL which put that technology on your site and took into account all the site-specific issues and then resulted in the combined construction operating license.
Essentially spoke for the lion share of the engineering as you thought about moving forward with construction.
It was exactly the opposite of what we did at Kemper.
Man oh man I think that's going to serve us well on Vogtle.
I think that's just one single big reason why I don't expect Vogtle to be anything like Kemper.
LLC</strong> Is there any risk of not having recertification at all to shareholders? In other words I mean I'm just wondering is there any by far going recertification is there any – just could you elaborate what the impact if any need that actually have? Yeah Paul I think it's really kind of a timing issue.
You are going to evaluate all the cost along the way whether you do one or the up.
If you force recertification now the commission could do a lot of different things with the new cost otherwise they're going to cover those same costs through the DCM process.
LLC</strong>  So just duplicate really is recertification.
Yeah really is.
Yeah.
LLC</strong>  Okay.
I just want to make sure.
And then just finally on sales growth the view of labor statistics I think released today the revised 2012 GDP at 2.8%.
Now they also served lowered the first half of this year or the first quarter whatever.
But I mean generally speaking this 0.5% to 0.6% of GDP growth doesn't seem to have held in weather adjusted for you guys right.
It was like 0.4% for 2012 and you guys are characterizing with leap year this year so far being flat.
So without getting in to what's going on with industrials or commercial whatever just in general I mean and I just also noticed with the Gulf Power saying that you guys are coming in a little bit sooner to expected because of sales growth.
So I’m just sort of wondering is there any thought about potentially revisiting of the projections there with these sort of adjustments?  Yeah Paul we look at that all the time.
Our marketing research load research folks are constantly evaluating.
We've had some extreme weather in both 2012 and 2013.
And so when you get to weather normalization it begins it gets a little more fuzzy on the margins than it does when you got more normal weather.
So there’s lots of issues here that could influence your actual results.
Again the long-term we kind of use that more long-term than we do short term.
But sometimes those things will move on either side of it.
Just in the period of strange weather and slower than expected economic growth.
Just to underline what Art said and we try to get you guys to I mean we understand you have a difficult job trying to figure all this stuff out that's a good long-term heuristic to use to help you understand it.
Just remember that what we do is detail bottoms up approach and then we circle back with the economic forms that are on hold to confirm what we're seeing inside.
And then we have also insight through my work with the Fed.
And I will say that what we're coming up with internally is very consistent with what the Fed is timing.
LLC</strong> Okay and then just in terms of long-term EPS growth and I know this is I think Ali and Greg were asking about this.
Just to understand this I mean you did mention that it's a regulatory year obviously things with Kemper didn't work out exactly as we had previously expected is the 4% to 6% growth I know that you guys usually address this in the fourth quarter.
But I mean you did mention to Paul Ridzon that you were sort of reiterating the guidance when asked in terms of 2013 in terms of your confidence.
How should we think about your confidence for the 4% to 6% growth in January if you could just elaborate a little bit more on that just in terms of how do you feel about that given all the stuff that's been happening? Well yeah I think I would say what I said before I appreciate you asking again.
The most dominant thing is what's going to happen with Georgia.
The second most dominant thing is what’s going to happen with Georgia.
The second most dominant thing is what’s going to happen with Alabama.
I think we’ve separated out the effects of Kemper $0.015 this year $0.025 independent $0.04 in the aggregate next year et cetera.
I mean we’ve been through that.
So my view is I’m just a little reluctant.
I guess what I’m saying is our 4% to 6% remains until I see a reason to change it and I’m not going to change it until I see what happens with these regulatory calendar that we have in front of us in 2013.
LLC</strong> Okay I appreciate it.
We’ll stick to our guns on that.
We will give you new estimates in January.
LLC</strong> Okay I appreciate it.
Thanks a lot guys.
Yes sir.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our last question is a follow-up question from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey Tom just a follow-up on Vogtle real quick.
I want to make sure I understand the stipulation you guys signed today.
Yeah.
Every six months will you all simply go in and ask for approval of the money you spend the prior six months on the plant and you won’t come in and give the commission an update on here is what we expect the total plant costs to be overall meaning till the end of construction or will that last data point still be given to the commission? Yes.
You know this is… No it’s Michael I’m sorry.
I’m sorry Michael I forgot.
The way we think about it is there will still be communications with the commission about total costs.
And we’ll still file those projections with them but the actual approval will come in each of the six-month processes as Tom has described.
That’s right.
Got it.
And all that Michael you should know was hand in glove we have an independent evaluator.
It’s exactly the processes that we’ve been following so far through VCM 1 through 7 and the process we’re following now with the exception we are not going to do the recertification with a 5% cost figure includes.
Got it okay.
So it’s strictly not having to go through the formal process of getting commission approval but they will still be the disclosure in the public domain about whether the cost has gone down due to construction or due to lower financing costs or whether – kind of your long-term projection of the total plant cost? That’s correct.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Thank you Mike.
Thank you.
And at this time there are no further questions.
Sir are there any closing remarks? The only thing we didn’t talk about I was just interested I think I want to throw out that we received some positive momentum certainly since we have Secretary Moniz assume his position with respect to loan guarantees.
Our view is that we had a renewed sense of urgency.
I can’t tell you that we’re more likely to get it or not but I can tell you that the temperature has been turned up on the parties in seeking to achieve resolution on that negotiation.
We didn’t talk about that.
I probably ought to throw that out there.
That is another important factor that’s positive for Vogtle.
Anyway look we’re continuing to work hard.
We hate the fact here we had another increase on Kemper.
We’re continuing to work to make sure that that covers everything that we know.
It is our best estimate.
We’re going to work hard to bring that thing in now on time with the new numbers.
We appreciate you following us and we’re going to work hard on your behalf.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the Southern Company’s second quarter 2013 earnings call.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you.
Southern Company’s Third Quarter Earnings Call will feature slides that will be available at the beginning of the call on our Investors Relations website.
You can access the slides at investor.southerncompany.com.
Good afternoon.
My name is Melody and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Southern Company third quarter 2013 earnings call.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday October 30 2013.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dan Tucker Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Planning.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Melody.
Welcome to Southern Company’s third quarter 2013 earnings call.
Joining me this afternoon are Tom Fanning Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Company; and Art Beattie Chief Financial Officer.
Let me remind you that we will make forward-looking statements today in addition to providing historical information.
Various important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements including those discussed in our Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
In addition we will present non-GAAP financial information on this call.
Reconciliations to the applicable GAAP measure are included in the financial information we released this morning as well as the slides for this conference call.
To follow along during the call you can access these slides on our Investor Relations website at www.southerncompany.com.
I’ll now turn the call over to Tom Fanning.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
2013 has been a very active year for Southern Company with major progress on construction projects a robust regulatory calendar and unexpected challenges in the form of consistently unseasonable weather.
Let’s begin on the regulatory front where we continue to see constructive processes and outcomes in all four states in which we operate.
An extensive review of Alabama Power’s RSE rate mechanism was concluded in August.
Following three public hearings the Commission chose to change the way RSE is measured beginning in 2014 to a weighted cost of equity range that appropriately takes into account Alabama Power’s equity ratio.
In so doing they concluded that Alabama Power’s overall return on capital was fair and reasonable.
The Commission also approved two regulatory orders that will enable Alabama Power to avoid any increases to RSE in 2014 thereby keeping rates stable for customers.
Earlier this month 2014.
The PSC staff and other interveners have filed their testimony and the next round of hearings will be held next week.
Georgia Power will file its rebuttal testimony by November 15 with rebuttal hearing scheduled to begin November 25.
A final decision on the Georgia rate case is expected on December 17.
Recall that Georgia Power has operated under a series of three-year rate plans since 1995.
These plans have all been the result of negotiation and compromise between Georgia Power the Commission staff and other parties as approved by the Commission and agreed to by the company.
The Georgia Commission has a long history of constructive regulation and we fully expect that the outcome of this case will reflect a continuation of that record.
In other Georgia regulatory news the eighth Vogtle Construction Monitoring report was approved by the Georgia PSC by a unanimous five to zero vote.
This latest regulatory approval means that a total of $2.2 billion in construction costs has now been verified and approved by the Commission.
Meanwhile testimony continues to be filed as a part of the Georgia – as a part of the Gulf Power rate case.
As a reminder Gulf’s request is for a $74 million base rate increase that would become effective in April of 2014 as well as an additional $16 million that would become effective in July of 2015.
We expect hearing to conclude in December with a decision in the first quarter of 2014.
Finally Mississippi Power expects to file an update to the seven-year rate plan to the Kemper County project later this year reflecting assumptions consistent with the fourth quarter 2014 in-service date.
We anticipate that the hearings on the rate plan will now occur in the first quarter of 2014.
The prudence review scheduled for the Kemper project has also been updated.
By mid December Mississippi Power will file information supporting the prudence of its procedures and controls over the costs that are currently under review.
Hearings on those costs are expected to begin in May.
As a reminder this will be the first of two prudence processes.
This initial process will address costs incurred through March 2013 while the second will address all subsequent costs through the completion of the project.
We believe this schedule will allow sufficient time for Mississippi’s new Public Service Commissioner Stephen Renfroe to become fully informed on the issues involved.
As a reminder Commissioner Renfroe was appointed by the Mississippi Governor Phil Bryant to fulfill the remaining term of Leonard Bentz who resigned from the Commission in August.
Finally I’d like to give you an update on our Vogtle and Kemper County projects.
First plant Vogtle work continues to progress well at Vogtle 3 and 4 as evidenced by dramatic changes across the entire construction site.
The project management team from Westinghouse CB&amp;I and Southern Nuclear is aligned and working hard to the next major milestone which include final assembly of the Unit 3 nuclear island auxiliary building also know as CA20 and the pouring of the first nuclear concrete in the Unit 4 nuclear island.
Assembly of the CA20 module for Unit 3 nuclear island is scheduled to be completed in December.
Our contractors are diligently progressing through sub-module inspections and remediation in order to meet this date.
Meanwhile the first nuclear concrete for Unit 4 is scheduled for mid November.
Most of the rebar work is complete and the final inspections and prep work are now taking place for the pour which took 41 hours to complete at Unit 3.
In September the conditional commitment for the Vogtle 3 and 4 DOE loan was extended to December 31.
As of today we’ve settled on most major terms and conditions and final reviews are underway at the appropriate government agencies.
While there is no assurance of a definitive agreement constructive dialogue with DOE leaves us very optimistic about capturing the value of these loans for customers.
The past Friday we submitted our initial filing with the Internal Revenue Service to secure our allocation of nuclear production tax credits for Vogtle Unit 3.
These credits were authorized under The Energy Policy Act of 2005.
We expect to submit an application to secure the Unit 4 allocation of credit after the Unit 4 basemat concrete is poured.
The basemat is expected to be the final construction step necessary to lock in these important savings for Georgia Power customers which could total as much as $1 billion for both units over the first eight years of operation.
Now for an update on the Kemper County project earlier this month we announced that we did not expect to meet the original May 2014 in-service date for the Kemper project largely as a result of lower than expected production rates and delays from wet weather.
After recalibrating our assumptions on the rate of pipe installation we have revised the in-service date to the fourth quarter of 2014.
In conjunction with the schedule change we have recorded an additional pre-tax estimated loss of $150 million.
As a reminder we estimated the incremental cost for a delay to be approximately $15 million to $25 million per month.
Our new estimate is consistent with that projection and also retains a $100 million contingency.
Tremendous progress continues to be made at the site.
We are now nearly halfway complete with pipe installation have fired both combustion turbines and have synced the entire two-on-one combined cycle to the grid.
Our project teams at both Kemper and Vogtle continue to work diligently to complete the state-of-the-art facilities both of which will deliver outstanding values to our customers for decades to come.
I’ll now turn the call over to Art for a financial and economic overview.
Thanks Tom.
For the third quarter of 2013 we earned $0.97 per share compared to $1.11 per share in the third quarter of 2012 a decrease of $0.14 per share.
For the nine months ended September 30 2013 we earned $1.41 per share compared to $2.26 per share for the same period in 2012 a decrease of $0.85 per share.
Our results for the three and nine months ended September 30 2013 include after-tax charges of $93 million or $0.11 per share and $704 million or $0.81 per share respectively related to the increased cost estimates for construction of the Kemper project.
As previously communicated Mississippi Power will not seek recovery of estimated cost to complete the facility above the $2.88 billion cost cap net of DOE grants and exceptions to the cost cap.
Year-to-date 2013 results also include an after-tax charge of $16 million or $0.02 per share for the restructuring of a leveraged lease investment recorded in the first quarter of 2013.
Earnings for the nine months ended September 30 2012 include $21 million or $0.02 per share of insurance recovery related to the March 2009 litigation settlement agreement with MC Asset Recovery LLC.
Excluding these extraordinary items earnings for the three and nine months ended September 30 2013 were $1.08 and $2.24 per share respectively compared with $1.11 and $2.24 per share respectively during 2012.
Excluding the effects of Kemper County the primary driver for our third quarter results was milder than expected weather resulting in a decrease of $0.07 per share on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
Weather was actually $0.10 below normal compared with $0.035 per share below normal for the same period a year ago.
In terms of cooling degree days the third quarter of 2013 was one of the mildest in the past 20 years.
For instance in metro Atlanta where we would normally expect to see more than 100 hours of summer temperatures above 90 degrees we saw only one such hour.
In August also in metro Atlanta we experienced four straight days with average temperatures of 67 degrees but even that doesn’t tell the whole story.
Rainfall during the quarter across the entire Southern Company territory was at its highest level since 1916.
The significance of this anomaly cannot be overstated.
When rainfall is that heavy the typical heat buildup fails to occur.
Without this buildup the temperature momentum that usually results in sustained electric demand for cooling never materializes.
This factor greatly affects our earnings – greatly affected our earnings during the third quarter of 2013.
It’s significant to note that weather affected not only our retail sales but also energy sales to wholesale customers.
We were able to offset the total effect of weather somewhat by reducing non-fuel O&amp;M spending compared to our plan.
A more detailed summary of our quarter-over-quarter drivers is included in the slide deck.
Turning now to a discussion of our retail sales and economic outlook for the remainder of the year.
GDP growth in the Southeast and the nation as a whole remained slower than expected at 1.5% to 2% year-to-date growth.
However in terms of jobs growth year-to-date the region is just slightly ahead of the nation at about 1.7%.
Industrial sales growth during the third quarter of 2013 was relatively strong at 2.6%.
We continued to see emerging growth in housing-related sectors such as lumber up 9%; stone clay and glass up 7%; and textiles up 6%.
We also saw increased strength in paper up 11%; petroleum up 11%; and primary metals up 8%.
Exports have begun expanding again after a stalling in the first quarter.
Weather normal residential sales were relatively flat for the quarter although customer growth is slightly ahead of the same period in 2012.
As expected residential sales growth continues to lag behind our customer growth.
The commercial market continues to show signs of improvement as evidenced by a decline in office vacancy levels which have fallen nearly 10% from their peak.
Elsewhere our economic development pipeline remains active and productive as the Southeast remains a great place to do business.
Currently our traditional operating companies are supporting some 350 potential projects representing more than 40 000 jobs and $15 billion in capital investments.
Meanwhile recent announcements are adding nearly 7 600 new jobs in our territory included among these are Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Georgia; corporate manufacturer Shaw Industries auto parts manufacturer Hyundai-Daimos vinyl tile manufacturer Mannington Mills; wood pellet manufacturer Green Circle Bio Energy and medical software developer iSirona.
Now at this point I’d like to share our earnings estimate for the fourth quarter of 2013 which will be $0.44 per share.
This implies annual results at the bottom end of our guidance range.
I’ll now turn the call back over to Tom for his closing remarks.
Thanks Art.
There has been a lot of interest recently in the emergence of a changing trajectory in long-term earnings per share growth to our industry we’ve noted that many of you are writing about that now.
It has been our practice for the last decade or so we will provide updated guidance range for 2014 and an updated long-term growth rate during our fourth quarter earnings call in January.
It’s been an awfully busy year with a lot of important regulatory outcomes either pending or complete in all of our jurisdictions.
For example we expect the Georgia Power rate case to conclude in December.
So there is still a lot of important information to be factored into our long-term EPS growth.
That builds an interesting question what do we think will remain the same and what do we think will change? While we don’t yet have the specifics we can talk directionally.
First what do we expect to remain the same? Dividend policy based on what we see today we believe our dividend growth trajectory will remain consistent with the dividend increases of the past six years.
Now dividends are ambiguously the purview of our board what we are confident in our ability to continue deliver those returns to our shareholders.
Second what is likely to change? The shape of our EPS growth compared to the past 10 years our EPS growth will likely slow a bit during the middle of the current decade but will likely increase again by the end of the decade.
Why? Well as you know Southern Company has been investing capital at a very healthy rate for many years now supporting major projects like our McDonough Gas Units Plant Vogtle Kemper County our environmental spend and growth at Southern Power.
In fact our CapEx as a percentage of our invested capital base has averaged about 8% over this timeframe.
As we work through our annual update to the financial plan this percentage is projected to become smaller through the middle of this decade associated with this reduced CapEx and growth of invested capital is the fact that our cash flow metrics are expected to improve dramatically.
In fact within the next three-year period our equity need could be eliminated or go negative in order to preserve our target equity ratio.
And by the end of the decade our growth in CapEx is expected to resume with the advent of more environmental spending and the commitment of our next phase of generating capacity for our traditional operating companies and Southern Power.
As always our objective is to provide superior risk adjusted returns to our investors by delivering on our commitment to provide clean safe We are now ready to take your questions.
So operator we’ll now take the first question.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey Steve.
Hey Tom and Art.
Just first when you do get to kind of more specific guidance next year this 268 that you’re now guiding to this year will you like normalize that for the weather as a base or is that kind of assuming you get there that kind of the base we should think about? Yes.
we always give weather normal projection.
Okay.
Second question is on Vogtle can you give us an update on the modules this year Lake Charles et cetera is that likely to stay on schedule to be resolved by the end of the year? So the kind of primary focus is on the CA 20 that we’ve referenced.
I think the important thing to note is that all of the material associated with CA 20 is currently onsite.
Construction is progressing in an acceptable manner and like we said we’re projecting the assembly of CA 20 would be done by year-end.
That’s kind of most important that actually forms a support mechanism for other modules for example CaO-1 that will occur later in 2014.
To just clarify that that didn’t mean that the issue with the modules are essentially resolved in terms of it being kind of any kind of a critical path issue in terms of current schedule for the project? So we – listen I think we said there’s a lot in the past there are always issues right.
And so what we’re always doing is working through the issues.
So is it resolved? No.
Do we have acceptable workaround for every issue that we see right now? Yes.
When we talk about critical path we fight among ourselves here about that because there maybe – for the remaining integrated schedule there maybe something like 20 to 30 critical path items.
And if you are a week late on one it doesn’t mean that you are a week late on the end of the schedule.
We believe that in our evaluation of our other critical path items we actually have improvements in the schedule.
We believe right now the sum total of critical path progress keeps us on schedule.
Okay.
And then one other question just on Kemper in the last two updates I think you’ve given some – you’ve obviously had these write-offs.
but I think in some of the higher costs you’ve been able to kind of defer for recovery.
Could you kind of highlight what that number is and why is that piece able to be deferred for recovery versus the others have to be kind of countered in the cost cap?  Yes.
Steve if we look at the project cost that we expect recovering on it would be the basic $2.4 billion plant cost that we initially certified to the cost of the man which is about $250 million the cost of the pipeline which is roughly $115 million and then there are some other regulatory assets that we’re on Mississippi Power’s books that are scheduled to be recovered as well that’s about $190 million.
And that’s when we look at what would be within Mississippi’s Power earnings rate base that’s what we look at.
The other pieces of it would be AFUDC which is roughly $425 million and then the difference between 2.4 and the 2.88 cap will also become part of the securitization package that totals about $480 million.
Those are the pieces that make up what we’re looking at at this point other than the write-off amounts.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Please proceed with you question.
Hey Julien.
how are you doing? Hey good afternoon.
Hey not to bad.
Thank you.
Good.
Excellent.
So just turning to the CBI and I suppose the issue of CBI and litigation and settlement what have you – how do you see that progressing here? I mean it seems like you’ve got some progress there’s still some other issues out there.
ultimately how do you feel about that getting resolved and what timeline? And then beyond that given I suppose some slippage in settlement some slippage in schedule and module 20 what have you is there a potential to go back to CBI for more perspectively? So let me give you kind of a broad comment.
In the middle of negotiations or whatever you never want to give kind of give specific advice.
Let me give you some very clear though I think general guidance there.
As Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron acquired Shaw we had a change in leadership.
Philip Asherman is the CEO of CB&amp;I.
We have found a relationship between us and the consortium particularly with CB&amp;I and Philip Asherman to be excellent.
Danny Roderick now leads Westinghouse; likewise the relationship there is excellent.
There are issues that are within the purview of the consortium how cost gets shared among and between Toshiba Westinghouse and CB&amp;I that we’re not party to that certainly do factor into the resolution of the commercial dispute.
So between the company and the consortium I would argue the tone has turned a lot more positive and certainly I think the progress of the litigation is expectable.
So while I can’t offer you very much specific than that I would say the general tenor should be positive.
What else do you want to cover there? We can leave it there if you want.
Okay.
That’s fine.
Thanks.
Thank you and state your column in.
Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey Jonathan.
Inc.</strong> Good afternoon.
Just to clarify Tom on these modules last – I think the last update was some of them were still in Lake Charles.
You are saying today they are all physically in Georgia at the site.
The A-20 is all there.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And but there are still some documentation and other issues you got to tie up? Yes.
They call them remediation but essentially whenever you find like a small defect or whatever what you do is fix it on-site and we just felt there was a much more efficient time effective process to get them onsite fix the documentation get them ready to go.
Inc.</strong> My understanding was the NRC had to sort of sign off from them being moved and that would be a sign that they were resolved that?   That’s right.
Well that they have – yeah they’ve been moved to site but they haven’t been accepted by us and from a quality perspective.
Those elements that are still being remediated are still being remediated under CBI’s oversight.
So it does have a…  Yes.
Aside from this sort of logistical help I guess it will be there will be that sooner when you do resolve those issues and issue that needs to be still unresolved?  That’s right.
Okay.
We’re actually feeling really bullish about that.
Sorry I think we’re feeling really bullish about… About getting okay…  CA20  Rather than having resolving it down in the south and then you go to get them off that?  That’s right.
Later okay.
and then on the Kemper can you just what – I think when you originally announced this earlier in the month you said that it was really – this was really weather there will have some other issues.
So the way you talked about is in the 8-K last night it sounded like might be more productivity and then the weather was a sub-factor is that… Weather is a factor.
Is that… Yes.
Let’s kind of go through that a little bit.
early on when we talked about we did see weather being kind of the major thing.
And I remember right out of the gate we had some ambitious targets and right out of gate we hit out targets and that – that’s the tone you were getting from them.
As we progress on installing the pipe particularly it’s almost hard to imagine unless you’ve been there I know some of you have been to the site and you’ll now what I’m talking about a) there is a lot of pipe b) there is different kinds of pipe wide bore pipe there is small bore pipe some of the pipe is outside the physical structure of the gasifier island and the gas annealing system.
Some of it is in constraint spaces inside the structure.
Obviously what we have found is the production levels that we saw earlier we’re not able to be sustained because a lot of the work ended up being detailed work inside the structure.
we just did maintain the kind of productivity that we wanted to see further – and we kind of alluded to this we are now with over two shifts of 2 000 craft people per day working on this issue.
And to some extent there is a saturation at the site we don’t think it productive to add more people and add more shift and everything else.
We’re kind of where we want to be here and part of changing the schedule; I suppose that we could have done more and try to keep May.
But we felt that for the overall health of the project it was important for us to take this new schedule put people to work in a more efficient manner and get the work done.
So it’s kind of all that combination and when we say weather and rainfall and all that I remember we were down there one day; we go to visit the site a good bit as you can imagine.
It’s not just rainfall sometimes it’s fog.
And in fact you can imagine big cranes working and manipulating some of the material on the site.
if you can’t see the top of the crane you can’t work.
Right.
And so fog ended up being an issue.
Okay that’s helpful Tom.
Thank you.
And then on – just on the growth topic you talked about the sort of mid decade slowdown shift of all of a cash generative mode.
To the Steve’s question on weather and guidance we’ll see a weather headwind year-to-date?  Year-to-date it’s $0.14 against normal.
So would you anticipate talking about growth off of $268 number plus that $0.14 wouldn’t it be more explicit?  Yes.
The thing you have to normalize as well as O&amp;M.
So it’s not just the one-sided equation.
That’s right yeah.
That’s fine.
So we’ll decide where that ought to be and when we talk to you in January.
Let’s do the dumb math a little bit real quick.
Jonathan I think it might be helpful.
If you add together less than expected sales and lots of sales through the weather we’re in $418 million range for the year somewhere around there.
Two years.
For two – for two years.
Yes yes.
And O&amp;M is down a similar number over something like two to three years.
So we have moved O&amp;M and weather in concert to the extent we can.
At some point one of the issues that we face is – and Art loves to keep reminding me of this that something like if the past 25 months we have had below normal weather or milder weather 22 of the last 25.
Right.
And therefore I suppose we could just continue to take O&amp;M out of business and I guess we could do that.
However that doesn’t really serve our responsibility of clean safe reliable affordable energy to our customers.
So we have to balance that whole equation.
So look we do to weather normal projections we will do that.
We need to restore some O&amp;M to get back to other normal activities.
Let me just – I’m dying to do it; I always love to do this lagniappe in this call.
You all on the call are familiar with heating degree days and cooling degree days.
You’re not going to believe the profile this year of Southern Company.
If you look at the cooling degree days and heating degree days for the month of January February March June July August they were all about the same number.
it is astounding the kind of year we’ve had.
Well that is – so Tom thanks for all that color and thus you maybe it’s pinning you down too far but on the growth outlook obviously you have this four to six currently and five is sort of the midpoint.
Do you still see five as being part of the range as you think about it out of the decade? Yes man we’ll update everybody.
We’ll update everybody in January.
What we were able to say here because I know everybody is going to want another specifics we’re just not ready to do specifics we’ll do that January as we have for the past decade.
But what we could say in all the uncertainties even now in our financial projections we do have a – what appeared to be a dominant solution.
The dominant solution basically says sort of rate of growth of dividends we think will be consistent with the past putting in place all of the caveats about purview of the board and everything else.
Okay.
That’s good thank you Tom.
You bet thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Shar Pourreza with Citigroup.
Please proceed with your question.
Good afternoon.
Hello Shar.
How are you guys.
Good.
Superb.
Just a question on your cash flow profile I think you’ve kind of hinted that you should see a potential improvement in that outlook over the near-term.
could that potentially eliminate any equity needs in 2015 at the earliest? Yes.
I think when you look at our equity needs we’ve outlined the need for equity a little bit more this year total of about $700 million for the year and $600 million next year.
2015 is still kind of a toss-up but as to whether or not we’ll need any is a function of obviously tax policy with bonus depreciation that we qualify for all of that kind of stuff.
but we may not need any equity additional equity in 2015.
In fact the net of 2015 and 2016 could be zero.
If you sell some in 2015 you could have a negative in 2016.
Okay perfect.
And then just one real top level question to the extent that you can answer it I think you mentioned maybe in the prepared remarks that some of the growth that you see could be back-end loaded and you typically issue your guidance CAGR; it’s usually more of a long-term picture.
Can you at least directionally mention whether the growth in the outer years can offset a potential slowdown in the interim? Well the way you should think about that is that – what we try to say is I’m going back to John Chiles that old stuff.
Those of you that aren’t old enough to know John Chiles you ought to read his book.
He is old guy on Wall Street but your earnings per share growth rate for net growth and dividends per share at or above the rate of inflation but we’ve been able to do with this tremendous growth period that we’ve had is increase our dividend.
I guess it’s the past six years in a row at $0.07 a year and what we’re saying here is by almost any measure we’re looking at we can maintain that kind of trajectory assuming that the Board agrees and everything else but that’s what we think.
So you should think about earnings per share growth and dividend per share growth together and by saying I think we can keep that $0.07 trajectory going I think let’s say that whatever happens in the near-term is benefited in the longer term.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
You bet.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Good afternoon guys.
Hey just industrial kind of showed nice up-tick in the quarter from what we’ve seen of late can you just may be give a little more color on to much where the breakdown of performance has been but when you talk to all of your customers what their expectations are in the year-end and for next year from a planning perspective? Well again it’s going to vary depending on the industry you’re talking about.
I’d say auto transportation is going to continue to expand and I believe all of our manufacturers are operating two shifts five days a week some more.
We expect that certainly to continue.
Primary metals has been kind of up and down depending on what the metal is being produced for.
Obviously automotive metal has been – demand has been pretty high but construction materials and other steel related products has been – that might be elated towards the export market has been kind of spotty as well.
Our chemical numbers year-over-year looked down and that is because one of our bigger chemical companies closed one of their processes here in Georgia and so yield at the end of this year that will be removed from the process.
So you should see a continuation of pretty strong performance in the chemical side.
And again housing-related stuff is really off a pretty low base.
So – but we’re pleased to see that they are improving.
I think Dan it’s probably a mixed bag and it’s a little too soon for me to comment at this point but we don’t see a wholesale slowdown in the industrials sector.
Well let me give you just a little more [indiscernible] here.
The residential and kind of housing numbers are pretty interesting.
We used to get about 70% of sales from single family home and with the economic recoveries and the pullback in the housing level now with recovery the number looks like 62% instead of 70%.
So we're seeing more people come in.
One of the other questions that we've all had as an industry I know we've had a lot of fun talking about on these calls has been the whole kind of consumption pattern of residential customers.
One of the other issues that we – when you peel the onion on the numbers we've seen more customers come in there are houses with meters but nobody's living there.
There are people now trying to sell them again where they didn't before.
So you've got to factor all that stuff into account.
So we actually think the trend here is positive.
Let me give you just a couple more things to keep your eye on.
Domestic energy prices particularly good old Southern Company energy prices remain awfully strong relative to averages and I think that gives us the basis to compete well and gives us I think some good gunpowder if you will for companies to conveniently locate in our area.
Another thing exports significant part of our industrial production goes to the export market as the worldwide markets continue to improve.
We'll do it.
One more and then I'll turn it over but pipeline is interesting.
Pipeline shows up as an industrial customer.
Most time industrial customers are not sensitive to weather.
In this case pipelines were sensitive to weather.
And in fact I think it was our worst performing segment but we think it was all weather related.
So if you get more normal weather more normal throughput better performance.
Got it.
That was interesting on the house flipping front.
I guess switching gears on Kemper and kind of these prudence reviews can you just share where really was going to be a conversation and how that's at play relative to the $2.88 billion cap you guys already agreed on? Well I'll give my shot at it.
Art give yours.
I mean who knows number one I mean we've got to have the prudence review and we're giving them all the documentation and everything else.
Certainly we are disappointed with the additional charges that we've recognized and what we believe will be a future loss.
It would be amazing to me for somebody to come up with an argument that for at least the first $2.88 billion that we are in prudent knowing that we are writing off now on a pre-tax basis over $1 billion.
I would find that a very tough argument to make.
I think it's also important to note that under Mississippi Law as I understand it that an assumption of prudence has to be made and that there has to be proof of imprudence when you go through the whole process.
So it's something that's been clarified here as of late.
And I'll just tell you some I mean we believe the problem at Kemper was essentially at the time that we made a fixed price commitment with 10% engineering done at 6.7% contingency.
In other words the problem has been more and more a lack of engineering that was completed rather than construction.
By all accounts the construction of Kemper has gone very well.
Got it.
And I guess just last one Tom.
I know you guys can talk to this next quarter but when we think about the acceleration of growth just kind of big bucket wise is that going to be driven by infrastructure replacement is that going to be driven by reacceleration in power demand or what do you think are the things in the horizon that’s going to facilitate a higher rate of growth? Sure it's higher rate of growth compared to kind of the 2016 2017 timeframe.
It's going to be more like this I think when you look at the integrated resource plans across the system kind of the next timeframe of new generation will be in the early 20s.
So let's just say 2023.
So getting ready for that starting construction all that will be one.
That's for our retail operating companies further.
Southern Power the Southern Power people work really hard to produce results.
When I think about Southern Power this year; last year they made something like I don't know $175 million and we've given them a stretch goal to improve that this year.
We think they've lost pre-tax something like $40 million on energy margins this year just because the capacity factors of their equipment is lower gas prices have gone up something like 80% off their lows coal prices have come down a bit especially as we shifted to western coal in the aggregate.
So the other thing is we keep pushing Southern Power to go evaluate deals and go buy things that fit our business model.
I can tell you there is a lot out there for sale but we are very disciplined and we have not pulled the trigger very much absent the solar deals we've announced on striking new deals.
So we want to clear that inventory out of the way and accelerate Southern Power's own growth plan.
We've also told you in prior calls that we're looking elsewhere so Texas MISO PJM West a variety of other things where we might be able to find some more fertile ground.
That also is a function of our reserve margins in the Southeast.
The other thing I would just mention is environmental spend; particularly ash water what else is down the road.
The new rules that we're looking at particularly for ash and water are bigger in nominal dollars than our incremental MATS costs.
So we think that as we find the firm dates in which we have to comply effluent standard 316(b) CCB Coal Combustion Byproducts et cetera we think those numbers will emerge at the kind of back end of the decade.
So we'll be spending money there.
Those are kind of the big buckets; new generation Southern Power environmental spend.
Great.
Thank you for that.
I appreciate it.
You bet.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Please proceed with your question.
Hello Greg.
Greg? Don't tell me… Mr.
Gordon your line is open.
Sorry about that.
I was on mute.
Sorry I'm late.
I was – I just hopped off another call.
Yes sure.
Just a follow-up on that line of conversation on the – I take it you said earlier in the call that you would see sort of a dip in growth in sort of the 2016 2017 timeframe and then accelerate back up in the back half of the decade and I just heard the answer to the last question which put some more bones around that.
If I look at Slide 14 of your slide deck it gives us 2013 2014 2015 CapEx by segment.
So is – what you're – is what you're telling us that your new generation and environmental compliance spending will see a dip in 2016 2017 and then reaccelerate later in the decade but that T&amp;D maintenance [indiscernible] general the other things are sort of steady as it goes? Is that the right… Yes.
…way to think about it? That's a good way to think about it.
And at Southern Power you – Southern Power you think will also dip or you think you'll be able to find opportunities to spend there? We hope we'll find opportunities.
By definition we're a big EVA company and if we can find things that fit our business profile we're not going to change long-term bilateral contracts no field risk creditworthy counterparties; we're going to keep the course there.
Right.
If we can find more deals we'll do them.
Gee whiz we'll do them next year and the year after.
The thing is like I said there is a lot for sale it's just kind of junk in my view.
And the other thing is we just don't know how much more solar is out there what our appetite is.
We said before tax-advantaged investing to us requires a risk premium.
Right.
So – and that $2.4 billion over 2013 2014 2015 has always been to some degree a place holder for opportunities right? It’s exactly…  Those numbers are even to some degree opportunistic? They are precisely opportunistic.
You're exactly right.
Okay Tom thanks.
That's very clear.
Take care.
You bet.
Thank you.
You too.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey Paul.
Inc.</strong> How are you?  Super.
Hope you're well? Inc.</strong>  I am.
Thank you.
Just the prudence review is the $2.88 billion is there any threat of that being disallowed at all or is it anything above that that you're looking at? Well there is no – I mean anything above $2.88 billion – wait a minute let's be clear there's three big hunks of things right.
There's a mine there's a pipe and there's a plant.
And what I said before was we're already not charging Mississippi customers above $2.88 billion.
That's what gives rise to these expected losses that we've been booking.
In terms of inside of $2.88 billion that's subject to kind of the company and the PSC to decide.
My only point was given the cost above $2.88 billion that we've taken for our own account I would find that to be a tough argument but let the process go and we'll see.
Inc.</strong> And then with this latest Kemper charge how is that going to impact your equity needs into 2014 and 2015? Yes Paul we don't expect that they'll change from what we outlined on the last call.
$700million this year $600 million next and then 2015 will be dependent on other Southern Power projects or whatever but right now we may not see any need in 2015 or 2016 but we're still maintaining a target 44% equity ratio.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then it sounds like you – subject to the purview of the board but you see $0.07 dividend hikes is that the way to look at it or is it a percentage increase we should think about.
Well I'm referring to is a $0.07 per share that we've been doing now for six years in a row.
And all I am saying with that is you got to put the all right caveats there right.
I can't sit here and guarantee everything for you.
That is subject and is the purview of the Board but I can say that based on every projection I've seen we still need to work through all the he details we have a lot of regulatory uncertainty still with Georgia and others.
It looks like to me a dominant solution.
I feel reasonably confident in saying that we can sustain that.
Inc.</strong> But Tom you sounded pretty optimistic about a Georgia settlement in your commentary.
Did I interpret that properly? We've been treated constructively in this three-year process since 1995.
I know there's been lots of questions before by people outside Georgia asking the Commission how will they rule et cetera et cetera and I know that there's been a consistent theme of why should I hurt this company.
Georgia continues to provide some of the best customer satisfaction that's the middle – the center of our business model.
We call it circle of life but it in fact works.
If we deliver reliability low prices and the best customer service that translates into customer value.
Our four companies among the national companies we follow are the top four in terms of customer value in the United States.
So we see all of the fundamentals in place to continue a constructive relationship with the Commission.
Outside of that I have no color on how that will go.
I just think we'll be treated fairly as we have in the past.
Inc.</strong> Are you going to do your triennial Investor Day in 2014? We are still considering that.
As of this point we haven't made any commitments.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thank you very much guys.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Please proceed with your question.
Hello Ali.
Hey Tom good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
I just wanted to clarify one or two things.
One is to be clear the fact that you will end at the low end of your guidance range for this year are you attributing that all to weather or were there some other factors we should be thinking about as well? Vast majority of it is weather.
If it was just economic growth we could make that up easily.
It's mostly weather.
This is – we've never had a third quarter in our history we think that mattered $0.10 in weather.
Okay.
And then year-to-date weather normalized growth load growth has been pretty much flat or 0.1% down can you remind us normalized what do you see normalized load growth 2014 and beyond how should we be thinking about that?  Well and Ali don't think of it year-to-date flat all that.
Think of it as we suggested.
The profile of growth this year has been almost exactly what we thought it would be except it has been a bit attenuated right.
So the first six months we thought would be flat.
Well in fact it was flat maybe slightly negative and you can fool around the edges on that.
The last three months has been a little positive plus 1% weather normal.
We hoped it was going to be a little better than that but that's because GDP is down.
It's fascinating.
We look at all sorts of things like all the fundamentals that we give you guys every quarter on the bottoms-up evaluations of the economy.
The other thing that like the Fed looks at too is this uncertainty index and the absolute level of this uncertainty index that's put out by some people coming out of the University of Chicago shows that the nominal level of uncertainty is just about double what we've seen in history and importantly the volatility of uncertainty is enormous compared to prior history.
And so what we see now is not only a challenged economy showing a recovery although a bit feeble we now have introduced event risk and when we see fiscal policy fail to resolve the issues of the day we see all sorts of effects in the economy as a result.
People withholding spending and actually saving more money not all a bad thing.
We're seeing companies hold back a bit on capital expansion.
We're seeing companies hold back a bit on employment.
You know we've got to get out of this logjam in Washington in order for the full potential of the economy to achieve it numbers.
Down the road we continue to see recovery.
We see all the data.
I think the only one Art didn’t mention is the commercial recovery.
We continue to see good what you call them [indiscernible] or whatever there and typically that’s our lagging indicator.
And just Tom to be clear I mean as you look forward remind us I mean you see sort of normalized growth what in the 1% to 2% range annually or..? 1.3%.
1.3% okay.
And then Art year-to-date can you remind us how much equity actually has been issued? Can you hold on a second? It’s about $500 million year-to-date.
We need about $200 million more to get to our target.
I think there is an appendix slide on the website Ali that could give you that number as well.
Got it.
One of things about weather normal and I know I’ve always said this is that it’s more of an art than a science but weather this year has been so abnormal that when we do and I know our load forecast folks shoot arrows at me when I say this but when our models try to normalize it is using modeling from normal weather years.
So when you take an abnormal year like this and try to figure out the weather impact we don’t think we’re getting reliable numbers but – so we think our growth could actually be a bit better than what we’re reflecting.
Yeah and let me give you – I couldn’t agree more with Art here is one more.
Normally when you think about weather adjustments you got the temperature.
It is clear that the rainfall has had a significant wet blanket on economic activity.
People are going out less spending less.
We’ve laughingly used in the past the traffic over the Pensacola Beach Bridge and beer sales out of the Walmart people just didn’t spend as much money.
Shopping is down.
So… That comes from the Fed Yes.
So there is a rainfall effect here which is interesting but we don’t capture that.
Understood.
Thanks a lot.
You bet.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your questions.
Hey Michael.
Hey Tom hey Art.
Just one or two questions on CapEx I’m just looking at the slide in the appendix from this quarter slide deck and last quarter slide deck.
I want to make sure I understand what’s happening here it looks like you moved CapEx up and into 2013 at Mississippi Power but then you backed down the back-end numbers there and them at Alabama Power it look like you raised the back-end numbers but lowered 2013.
I just want to make sure I understand the drivers there and then I want to follow-up on Southern Power.
Yes Michael I’m going to have to get back to you on that I don’t have that detail but we will be certainly glad to get you that information.
Okay.
Also Southern Power you had earmarked about $900 million of CapEx for 2013 we are basically at Halloween I just didn’t know kind of where are you in that run rate and is that a number that’s likely to come down and be a source of cash to the holding company in the next – as you kind of have to fund and burn fund some of Vogtle.
Yeah we are about half of that at this point somewhere around the 450 number is my recollection anyway.
We thought there would be more gas deals around when we looked at another biomass deal we looked at other stuff and we just had them like what we are seeing.
Tom you’ve made some comments about Kemper County and kind of that the engineering versus construction processes.
Given the fact that its an innovative technology if you were sitting down a year or two three years from now with some your peers and had to give them – give like a lessons learned or if I had to do over what would I do differently type.
What else are there other things you would have done significantly different and I’m just really trying to think about this kind of longer term next 5 years 10 years 20 years there is other companies in the industry have to do things that are technologically different than what they have traditionally done.
Yes let me give you a quick simple and that is it would be do more front end engineering.
Okay.
So that would be it the other thing is we are seeing lots of potentials outside the United States and here let me give you kind of two factors.
We continue to innovate around TRIG that’s the brand name of our technology and in fact there is this other technology we are working on it’s just a natural evolution at TRIG where we might capture as much as 100% of the CO2.
Now we are far from being ready for prime time there but the linkage of CO2 not as a way for something a value particularly with enhanced oil recovery they have some potential.
And so we are continuing to work on it.
So look we are very proud of TRIG we made a mistake on the engineering.
We agreed to price cap without having done fully our homework on the deal and we planned to work.
But I think down the road we’ll find ways we think to the capital cost down and make the things economic.
The other thing people talk about and what we’ll do is how can you do Vogtle? How you can Kemper with oil and gas prices well we have made probably the biggest shift in the industry from coal to gas.
Southern Company is now the third largest consumers of natural gas in United States.
Everybody knows I’m bullish on natural gas but we cannot put all our eggs in that basket.
We must find innovative solutions to go forward okay.
Final point we are now engaged in some discussion around the world China Pakistan Indonesia Australia Poland.
I’ll be in Washington on November 7 – 6 7 with Secretary and other energy Secretaries from International companies talking about the applicability of TRIG or any improvements to TRIG that we make down the road.
And think about it why it would it might make sense there rather than hear? Well because they may not have advantages of natural gas industry that’s been created through fracking and so if they don’t places like China Indonesia Australia Poland at all may have near-term uses for this kind of technology.
So look I guess to summarize quickly do more homework upfront understand the risk of a price cap it would be we are going to continue to innovate and we are very proud of this technology we think it’s got great promise in the future we are continuing to work on it.
Got it.
Thank you Tom.
Much appreciated.
You bet.
Our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin Smith with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Julia?  Julian? Sir your line is open.
Operator you can go to the next question.
Our next question comes from the line of Kit Konolige with BGC Partners.
Please proceed with your question.
Kit how are you? Tom how you’re doing? Hi Art?  Dynamite.
Good to hear from you.
Just a couple of kind of incremental bits of information when to go with that growth rate in sales what’s your assumption about the kind of longer term five seven years growth rate in O&amp;M as you go forward.
Well yeah Kit this is Art.
You look at O&amp;M and we have a hard time defining normal in O&amp;M these days.
As we look back in time and we just look at our operating company O&amp;M levels over the last four years and if you normalize it for things like the Daniel lease at Mississippi we’ve been relatively flat a non fuel O&amp;M since 2010.
And how many assets have you added.
And we have added over the $7 billion of plant and service during that time including Unit 2 in Georgia around the McDonough 2500 megawatts of natural gas units we’ve added scrubbers and SCRs around the system.
All of these assets require O&amp;M.
So we’ve been able to absorb that around the weather and economic impacts that we have suffered through for the last two years.
So let me just say it differently.
So assuming accounting for increases in assets increasing the inflation we’ve actually had declining real O&amp;M level.
That’s correct.
Over four years.
Now you asked a question well what did we plan.
How do we plan from there? I would take this is kind of just a slingshot over the back here but take a couple of hundred million maybe $250 and added it to our current maybe our current 12 months ended numbers and add 3.5% to it a year and that would give you a normal process or expectation around O&amp;M.
3%? Yes.
That's reasonable Yeah.
And then one other item related to the discussion of the feature and things you don’t want to be pinned down on some but obviously just doing the arithmetic if your growth rate in EPS is likely to slow some and yet you keep up the rate of growth of the dividend and the payout ratio increases.
What level of payout ratio are you comfortable with? Yes right so that’s the obvious math right.
And remember we said that EPS has a shape now so we have a trajectory that you are going to be flattened a bit and then revamp.
So remember where the payout ratio would rise in the time of flattening you’re going to be much more cash flow positive.
So from a credit metrics cash flow covers or dividend or however you want to think about that we can sustain a higher payout ratio.
So we wouldn’t be afraid at all going above 75 I don’t see any scenario right now credibly that would get us north of 80 but I think we could be in the 75 and north range.
But I think that would be fine for us to I think longer term we would work it back down.
It’s more important for us to have regular predictable sustainable increases in the dividend policy we understand how important that is to investors and I feel confident that we are going to able to sustain that assuming the broad goes along with that.
Right.
Thank you.
Hey Kit.
Yes sir.
As our comment O&amp;M comment.
That may not be level across all our operating companies you may see company increasing if their – for example Georgia Power putting the Vogtle 3 and 4 into service you are going to see some elevated levels of O&amp;M around the those assets.
And McDonough.
Yes.
So those numbers may not work by an operating company standard.
Right.
Fair enough.
But if you bring them all up to consolidate them at the Southern level that should be the – sort of rough approximation.
Art P.
Beattie Yes.
Yes.
Thank you.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Barnett with Morningstar Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey Mark.
Hey good afternoon everyone.
It’s been a long call so I won’t pepper you too much.
I just have a quick question on something – the NRC staff release last week.
They were talking about greater coordination of safety or severe accident management guidelines now it might be a very small item given the size of Southern but I’m just curious if you think that there is something in there that might meaningfully impact cash operating cost for nuclear.
No.
We meet all the time on this stuff.
You wouldn’t believe – I guess the between me and Mark Crosswhite our COO board members we go to NSRB Nuclear Safety Review Board where we go to each of our plants and evaluate all the details of the operations of the unit.
Our OPCo CEO of Macquarie and Paul Bowers of Georgia Macquarie and Alabama go these meetings.
We have board meetings at Southern Nuclear we meet all of time on these issues as well at our management council meetings we evaluate kind of budget to actual performance and projections of all our business units including nuclear.
While these are important issues that you are kind of highlighting here we don’t think is a significant budget issue and we’ll be able to work through anything coming our way here.
This is not one of the issues that’s going to be a driver to an investor’s decision in a material way.
Okay.
I think it’s seems that its still something that’s up in the air and there seems there might even be some internal disagreement but do you have any feel for what if any – whether it’s a small item or not what if any real changes might be brought about by any such I guess coordination of SAMG.
Hey Mark you know what I would rather do here I would rather gets you on a phone with some of our nuclear guys and talk about that just talking about that in isolation really doesn’t tell the whole story.
Remember we had the whole post Fukushima things and we are going to do hydrogen venting and a whole lot of other issues.
I can just tell you looking at the budgets of our nuclear business they do grow but its nothing that’s going to way down our ability to deliver financial results if you want a lot of detail I can put you with the right people.
Thanks and I’ll do that.
Thanks.
Superb.
Our next question comes from the line of Mitchell Moss with Lord Abbett &amp; Co.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey Mitchell.
Hey guys.
Two quick questions.
One I noticed on the September versus October status reports that you just put out there was a point about the process piping installation and it looks like the number went down by a percent.
I wanted to make sure I understand what went on there and how you know I guess is there a problem or on the construction end or what happened? Okay yes hi Mitchell.
We are going to probably want to get back to you on that by only sense could be that is kind of production and weather related as I described earlier on the call but we’ll get you the specifics on that you’re looking at a specific I think regulatory report probably what you are looking at.
Yes.
We’ll get back to you call us back later and we’ll figure that out for you.
That’s okay and then on the upcoming milestones there was previously you had said that this steam turbine synchronization was going to be at the end of October so… We are synchronized You synchronized.
Yes.
Okay so that’s being completed.
So it looks like there weren’t any other 90 day milestones coming up or at least listed so are there – what should be paying attention to you know in your significant benchmarks.
Yes Mitchell I think one thing we’ve mentioned in the past was with first gasifier heat up and that was originally schedule I think December now it looks like mid to late second quarter.
Okay so that’s a next major milestone that we should be paying attention for? That’s correct.
Yes finish the piping [indiscernible] going.
So going so far it’s been going very well we’re 60% through start up something like that 50%.
Right.
And it’s going well.
We’ll have some other milestones beyond that around reliable syngas out of each train that’s a little bit far off so.
Yeah.
Okay great.
I’ll follow-up with you offline on the piping.
Bye bye.
Our next question comes from the line of Andy Levi with Avon Capital.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey Andy.
Hi good afternoon guys.
You can hear me I assume right? Yes.
Oh yes yes.
Okay.
Just one thing I was confused that they came up earlier in the call maybe I just wasn’t aware of it.
But just on Mississippi on the $2.88 billion did you say there is going to be a prudence review around that I thought that was on the Southern [ph] Stone? Well no.
there has always been a prudence review associated with the project.
I guess as we outlined in our opening remarks there is going to be one kind of in the spring of 2014 that will cover I think through 2013.
And then we’ll – through the March of 2013 and then expenditures beyond March of 2013 to in-service we’ll have another prudence review on that that’s always been the case.
Okay I apologize.
Yes no problem.
I thought the 2.88 is kind of guaranteed and there was no risk to losing that but I guess that was wrong on that? I suspect that’s probably isn’t true for anything in the utility industry.
Fair enough.
and then just the last question on Southern Power.
Yes.
Anything that you end up doing whether it’s down in Texas or outside of your Southern footprint would be contracted right we’re not talking any of merchant type? Yeah.
I said that before we don’t believe in the merchant model we think it doesn’t serve customer’s interest in the long run and our business model remember is long-term bilaterals creditworthy counterparties no transmission or fuel risk things like that.
We’re going to stay on that case.
that’s why we haven’t done a lot of deal like I said there is s lots of stuff for sale and we kick every tire we see but we are very disciplined in what we’re doing.
So the lack of selling and buying projects of Southern Power is not because they aren’t out there because we don’t like what we see.
Great okay.
I’ll see you guys in a week.
Thank you.
Certainly.
Our next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan with Visium.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey Ashar.
Hi good afternoon Tom.
I had two questions one is factual question going to page eight of the earnings package and this shows the financial overview of earnings as reported by each subsidiary for year-to-date as well as quarter-to-date.
And I’m focusing on Mississippi Power just wanted to make sure I’m doing my numbers correctly.
Year-to-date the net income is a $115 million and had back nearly $48 million write off so it’s a $163 million.
I guess prior to the write off 2012 year-to-date and then if I take the 2013 year-to-date I’m adding $704 million to the negative $490 million I get to $214 million.
So am I correct Mississippi Power’s earnings are up year-to-date about $50 million versus I guess everyone else is like flat or down but am I correct in my interpretation that there’s a $50 million improvement in Mississippi Power earnings year-to-date? Yeah I believe you are.
It’s mostly AFUDC once you net out all the ex-items that you mentioned.
Okay.
Okay.
And then Tom I just wanted to get as we – as you have kind of mentioned strategically you are at looking into the next kind of decade in terms of growth and all that one thing – when you were the CFO in your CFO role in the latter past – in the latter half of the last decade one thing which was very clear about Southern was and you propagated and you I guess you guys still do was risk adjusted returns being very very superior.
What I’m trying to understand is that as you guys were kind of like planning for this decade where did the miss come that whey did I mean it seems like what’s hurting is that you started two highly risky projects at the same time.
So I’m just trying to see what would happen – did the management review that in terms of what you guys were and taking on such two risky projects all at the same time as to why that didn’t come into the mind because now we are suffering from that risk adjusted – we have become a much more riskier company as the implementation is going through.
So I just wanted to understand did those things come into mind or what drove the decisions to pursue two projects simultaneously at the same time?   There are days I ask myself I suppose gee whiz you have to put yourself in the contest of the time in which decisions were made.
I think management at that time felt that there was pretty robust growth.
A lot of the planning and all that occurred before the downturn in the economy and we were seeing pretty robust growth and so we have always felt about the broad portfolio we felt that the nuclear program which is actually going exceedingly well had the right supports in place to make it effective.
And so my sense is around Vogtle 3 and 4 it’s a terrific project its going along terrifically we’ve had terrific support support by the Governor the PSC the Legislature of the General Assembly in Georgia the Administration in Washington Congress both was going great.
The only kind of black cloud here is Kemper and I have said many times that while we are very proud of the technology that we developed along with our partner KBR remember originally Kemper that technology was going to get built in Orlando but it was going to get built without CCS when we moved it to Mississippi we combined CCS with enhanced oil recovery.
And we made a strategic mistake back then we committed to do the deal with a price cap without enough engineering being done that would be my sense of it.
Recall also the state of Mississippi within an interesting position where failing to do Kemper County would have subjected them about I forgot what the number would be 70% to 90% of gas for their electricity generation and from a public policy standpoint I think the regulator of Mississippi didn’t want to have that much volatility of energy production tied up in that fuel resource.
There was a host of issues but if you think going forward how well Vogtle was going we definitely would take in our shots on Kemper.
I think when you consider all of the efforts in Alabama all of the other efforts in Georgia outside of Vogtle all of what is going on at Gulf and really the work in Mississippi outside of Kemper.
Southern is and Southern was.
We continue to deliver value to customers everyday products and reliability customer service.
And I think if you want that underscore it is a notion that our customer value numbers had been terrific for a long time we are the top four among the companies we survey.
I don’t think Southern – I think Southern is going to be fine in the long run; its just getting through Kemper is the issue.
Okay thank you.
Yep.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Jenkins with State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
Please proceed with your questions.
Hi good afternoon.
Hey Dan.
So just a couple here you mentioned I think on Vogtle how you are in the final phase potentially these DOE loan guarantees.
Yes.
And I was just curious you also mentioned in your appendix on financing needs that could be up to $2.5 billion I think.
So would that tend to mitigate the needs for Georgia Power to enter the public debt markets? Absolutely.
And remember that timeframe.
Yes.
Okay.
You got it.
You got it exactly right.
And then on – I’m trying to understand on from Mississippi Power given the billion plus of write-offs obviously that would have a big impact I would imagine on the equity and the capital structure.
How do you account for that in the right making process given that your shareholders are taking the brunt of those write-offs would you use like an imputed capital structure how do – for rate marking purposes how would your capital structure the equity in your capital structure being? The equity is – the equity here has already taken place and we will replace the equity as we commence the additional capital that we’re investing in Kemper.
So the additional $1.1 billion will be financed with a portion of equity from Southern and it will help restore by the end of 2014 their equity ratio to about a 50% or so level.
So you won’t try to do on the impeded capital structure you’ll just use whatever happens to be with that hit that was basically taken by the shareholders for coming up with a cost of capital per rate making you are saying.
That’s correct.
Okay that’s all I was wondering.
Thanks.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Vedula Murti with CDP.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey Vedula.
Hey good afternoon.
Inc.</strong> How are you? Good how are you? Inc.</strong> I’m okay.
You were talking a bit about the back-end of the decade and particularly in terms of place holders and CapEx the churn in cash flow.
I’m wondering can you kind of maybe range off maybe over like the five year period 2016 through 2020 or whatever you feel like you can.
What type of cash flow flexibility you think you are going to have over and above maintenance CapEx and everything like that and that might be available because it seems like that you have a chance depending that this might be a period of time that would kind of look somewhat similar to periods of mid 90s after you just completed Vogtle.
Yes hey Vedula I appreciate your interest in that kind of number we’ll give you more updates in January.
We’re just not prepared to go there right now.
Inc.</strong>  All right.
Thank you very much.
Sure thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Please proceed with your questions.
Hey Paul.
LLC</strong> Hi how is it going? Dynamite.
How are you? LLC</strong> Well you know managing.
Just wanted to sort of follow-up on Kemper just I know that there is always a disclaimer and everything but there was this discussion there about some uncertainties associated with what could happen with future expenses costs overruns what have you.
Can you give just any sort of flavor as to how you feel about that now with the latest update that you have given us? Yes the numbers we’ve given you are based on everything every piece of information that we know right now.
Essentially the information we’ve given you is consistent with the information that we’ve suggested in the past that any schedule change is worth about $15 million to $25 million if you just want to do—I always love kind of dumb math simple math.
$15 million to $20 million a month if you go six-month times $25 million to the $150 million and we’ve retained in light of that $100 million of contingencies.
That’s how you get to where we are.
Of the $150 million there’s still $100 million of contingency in there.
LLC</strong> Okay but I mean in terms of just qualitatively speaking one would think as time goes on and as you guys sort of reach certain milestones of what have you that’s the uncertainty level would go down.
So I see I see.
LLC</strong> Do you see them sort of staying I mean or… Sure.
LLC</strong> Sometimes maybe not maybe like you uncover something there well actually it’s not that’s what I’m tying to get feel for? I’m sorry yes; I see what you are saying.
Yes the risk should start converging.
So clearly now the risks are moving away from construction because we’re converging on the completion of construction and the risks are shifting more to start-up risks.
And as we have said on the prior calls I know several calls the big start-up risk goes to I think the integration of the implementation and control environment at Kemper.
Recall we have an electricity island we had a gasification we have a gas handling system.
And so that’s kind of what big risk I think and start-up will involve.
Now we are doing everything prudent in our power to anticipate that environment we model; we already have teams in teams in place to assess it.
But that’s probably is how the risk moves.
So clearly construction risk is converging maybe you got a start-up risk.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of sales growth and EPS growth and I know that you are not going to give us really anything until January if I understand you guys correctly you’re giving sort of this qualitatively how it may flow through in the next couple of years just from a very general kind of concept as appose to the specifics.
I assume that’s correct I mean there’s no way of – I’m not going to be able to get out of your sort of any relative numbers.
Is that correct?  That’s correct.
LLC</strong> Okay I just wanted to check.
So your potential that you might actually also reassess the long-term sales growth at that point in time or is that sort of a separate issue? It’s more of a CapEx issue you guys are looking at that or in terms of the O&amp;M.
Things other than sales growth that will be making sort of the sort of the determination as to what you guys will be providing us in January?  We do the whole thing Paul we started with the low forecast and then we put every piece together after that.
So that the annual cost as we go through.
But it’s all the package.
Yes.
It’s altogether.
LLC</strong> So it’s all of that so is everything is really actually reviewed.
Yes.
Yes I’m sure I’m sure.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So we’ll see what happens okay.
Thanks so much all my other questions have been asked.
Thank you.
LLC</strong> Take care guys.
At this time there are no further questions.
Sir are there any closing remarks? Yes.
I just want to say thank you so much for your attendance on the call.
We went over a lot of interesting territory.
It’s a little unusual for us to talk about kind of longer term performance.
But since it’s been such an interesting topic that many of your are writing about we felt that it was a good things to kind of highlight.
We continue to work hard and making Kemper as successfully as it can be.
We feel confident in our ability to execute there.
Everything else at Southern is going well.
When you look at Alabama Georgia Gulf the rest of the Mississippi when you look at our fundamentals Southern is performing as well as it ever had.
We got to get Kemper build and operational and we’ll be in great shape.
We thank you so much for your attendance this afternoon and look forward to talking with you soon in Florida.
Take care.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the Southern Company’s third quarter 2012 earnings call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Kenitha and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Southern Company Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Wednesday January 29 2014.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dan Tucker Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Planning.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Kenitha.
Welcome to Southern Company’s fourth quarter 2013 earnings call.
Joining me this afternoon are Tom Fanning Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Company and Art Beattie Chief Financial Officer.
Let me remind you that we will make forward-looking statements today in addition to providing historical information.
Various important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements including those discussed in our Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
In addition we will present non-GAAP financial information on this call.
Reconciliations to the applicable GAAP measure are included in the financial information we released this morning as well as the slides for this conference call.
To follow along during the call you can access these slides on our Investor Relations website at www.southerncompany.com.
We have a full agenda for today’s call.
We will begin with the brief recap of 2013 operational highlights followed by an update on the Vogtle and Kemper projects.
We will then discuss fourth quarter and full year 2013 financial and sales result.
Finally we will update our forecast of sales capital spending and financing which support our earnings and dividend forecast for the next few years.
At this time I’ll turn the call over to Tom Fanning.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
2013 was a year of operational regulatory and financial challenges for Southern Company and apart from our difficulties with Plant Ratcliffe in Kemper County Mississippi we achieved tremendous success in meeting these challenges and what was arguably our busiest year ever from a regulatory standpoint.
We’ve done unprecedented level of activity across all four states.
The results in each of our jurisdictions demonstrate that our continued focus on the customer helps support constructive regulatory engagements.
In Alabama minor adjustments were made to the RSE mechanism that will serve customer interest well.
In Georgia the PSC approved another constructive three year agreement for Georgia Power.
Georgia Power also completed another successful integrated resource plant and in the third regulatory proceeding in Georgia the VCM Eighth Report was approved unanimously bringing the aggregate total of costs approved for plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 to $2.2 billion with no disallowances.
In Florida the PSC approved the settlement agreement reached between Gulf Power and all of the interveners in its rate case.
And in Mississippi we reached a settlement in January 2013 that paved the way for Kemper-related rate increases in 2013 and 2014 and a subsequent rate increase in 2015 for the securitization of certain project costs.
Combined these steps are projected to stabilize the impact on customers before it lead seven years.
Even with the backdrop of the regulatory proceedings in all four of our retail jurisdictions Southern Company and its four traditional operating companies occupy the top five spots in the 2013 Customer Value Benchmark survey which compares our customer satisfaction ratings with those of peer utilities.
We experienced the best year in our company’s history in terms of transmission and distribution reliability continuing a trend of improvement over the past decade.
And most importantly we completed our safest year ever.
For the third consecutive year Southern Company achieved a new all time record low in recordable incidence rate and also saw reductions in loss work day cases and preventable vehicle accidents.
This continuing commitment to protecting the health and safety of our workers is a key component of Southern Company’s workplace culture and I’m extremely proud of our most recent results in this area.
Let’s now discuss our two large construction projects; progress at the Vogtle 3 and 4 construction site is remarkable.
We’ve included photos in our slide deck that indicates how much the site has changed over the course of 2013.
Also included is a recent photo of CA20 the auxiliary building modules for the Unit 3 nuclear island; the photo which was taken inside the onsite module assembly building showed all of the structural walls assembled prep work continues to ready this module for a placement in the nuclear island next month.
We overcame early issues with the sub module fabrication and documentation in Lake Charles Louisiana.
Our demonstrated ability to work through challenges is indicative of the strong collaborative relationship we have with Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron and Westinghouse as well as a testament to the rigorous oversight we have in place for this project.
As we look ahead to 2014 the site will continue to change shape in dramatic ways.
Product risks on the Turbine Island and Cooling Tower for Unit 3 will continue and the Nuclear Island for Unit 3 will really start to come out of the ground.
After the placement of CA20 we are scheduled to see two of the containment vessel rings stacked on the bottom edge the large CaO-1 module placed inside the containment vessel and the six foot thick walls of the Nuclear Island will come all the way to ground level.
Progress on Unit 4 will also continue and a year from now we expect that many of the units components to be further along than Unit 3 is today.
We are also pleased to announce after an extensive negotiations on loan guarantees Georgia Power has delivered its documents to DOE.
Now there remain a series of steps that must be taken prior to closing and while we can’t disclose final terms we do believe that our earlier estimate of approximately $200 million of present value benefits is still representative of the loans value to customers.
Combined with other customer benefits including production tax credit four of which we have qualified after the completion of the concrete basemat pours in the nuclear island we project approximately $2 billion worth of additional benefits to customers relative to the amount originally certified by the PSC.
We will continue to provide more color on these savings and other aspect of the project in the next Vogtle Construction Monitoring report which is scheduled to be filed in late February.
The Kemper IGCC project also continues to make progress and we are still working towards a fourth quarter in service states.
During 2013 the transmission infrastructure was completed.
The pipelines were all completed and the lignite mine was place into service.
At this stage more than 75% of the piping has been installed and testing of the combined cycle is underway.
In fact we produced electricity using natural gas throughout most of January generating approximately $1 million to offset project costs.
We will move towards testing of the gasifier in the second quarter which will mark the first heat up of a gasifier at the facility.
The key milestone expected prior to commercial operation is a reliable supply of syngas to the combined cycle.
Recognizing that there are risks associated with start-up activities we have recorded an additional charge for the project of $40 million pre-tax $25 million after-tax in the fourth quarter of 2013 to increase the contingency for those risks.
Overall we continue to anticipate this Vogtle Unit 3 and 4 and Plant Ratcliffe in Kemper County will benefit customers with clean safe reliable and affordable energy for decades to come.
I will now turn the call over to Art for a financial and economic overview.
Thanks Tom.
As you can see from the materials we released this morning we had strong results for the fourth quarter of 2013 which positively influenced our results for the full year.
For the fourth quarter of 2013 we earned $0.47 per share compared to $0.44 per share in the fourth quarter of 2012.
For the full year of 2013 we earned $1.88 per share compared with $2.70 per share in 2012.
Our results for the fourth quarter 2013 include after-tax charges of $25 million or $0.03 per share and earnings for the full year 2013 include after-tax charges totaling $729 million or $0.83 per share related to increased cost estimates for construction of the Kemper project.
As a reminder Mississippi Power will not seek recovery of estimated cost to complete the facility above the $2.88 billion cost cap net of Department Of Energy grants and exceptions to the cost cap.
Results for the full year 2013 also include an after-tax charge of $16 million or $0.02 per share for the restructuring of a leveraged lease investment recorded in the first quarter of 2013.
Earnings for the fourth quarter and full year 2013 include $12 million or $0.02 per share and earnings for the full year 2012 include $21 million $0.02 per shares of an insurance recovery related to the March 2009 litigation settlement agreement with MC Asset Recovery LLC.
Excluding these items earnings for the fourth quarter and full year 2013 were $0.48 and $2.71 per share respectively compared with $0.44 and $2.68 per share respectively for the same periods in 2012.
Year-over-year results were positively influenced by revenue effects associated with new generating capacity at our traditional operating companies as well as reductions in interest expense and AFUDC.
These positive effects were offset by significantly milder than expected weather.
Increased depreciation and amortization and non-fuel O&amp;M expenses.
And an increase in the number of shares outstanding.
A full listing of earnings drivers were about the full year and the fourth quarter is included in the slide deck.
Our full year 2013 results are perhaps best understood however by examining the response of our traditional operating companies to unexpected headwinds in revenue.
Weather in territory was especially unseasonable in 2013 resulting in one of the mildest summers in the past 20 years and rainfall during the third quarter of 2013 was the heaviest in nearly 100 years.
The impact on our base revenues equated to negative $0.14.
At the same time retail sales growth in 2013 was slightly less than anticipated.
2013 therefore marks yet another year in which our flexible spending plans have proved an effective in offsetting unforeseen shortfalls in revenue.
Each year as part of the development of our financial plan we build flexibility into our operations and cost to serve as a mitigation for revenue variances.
Since 2010 with the economy struggling to recover and with two very mild weather years back to back our O&amp;M spending has been down $500 million compared against our plan helping us to deliver on our short-term financial commitments while adding more than $7 billion in capital assets.
All the while our operating companies have been keenly focused on safety reliability and customer satisfaction with a view towards maintaining the long-term sustainability of our business model.
Moving now to an economic and sales review of 2013.
As expected economic growth in 2013 was slow during the first half of the year but picked up considerably during the second half of the year.
This trend is reflected in our retail sales results which showed improved growth in the second half of the year in all customer classes.
For example industrial sales which decreased 0.7% in the first six months increased 3.6% during the second six months and 4.8% during the fourth quarter.
Bring it as to 7 consecutive month’s year-over-year of industrial sales growth.
So strongest segments included paper up a 11% primary metals up a 11% and pipelines up 6% housing-related industries improved as well was with stone clay and glass up 9% and lumber up 5%.
Commercial and residential sales were essentially flat for the year although we did see a noticeable increase for residential in the fourth quarter.
Meanwhile our economic development pipeline remains robust growing nearly 20% in 2013 compared with 2012.
Our traditional operating companies are currently supporting some 350 potential projects representing 35 000 jobs and $15 billion in capital investments.
Earlier this month we reengaged our economic roundtable participants.
As a reminder this group consists of several regional economists and executives from a handful of our largest customers.
The viewpoints of our roundtable participants are well aligned with Southern Company’s economic forecasts.
The momentum experienced during the second half of 2013 is expected to carry over into 2014 with anticipated GDP growth of between 2.5% and 3%.
Industrial activity and exports are expected to be the key drivers with growth expected in chemicals steel auto manufacturing and transportation.
The housing market is improving but likely has a long way to go before returning to free 2007 levels.
Multi-family customer growth is 10% higher is a 10% higher share of our growth than during the pre-recession period consistent with many antidotes about robust growth in multi-family housing.
Building permits were up more than 25% over 2012 but are about 50% below normal levels.
The dynamics of supply and demand in this sector are returning to historical levels which should translate into an increase in single family home starts.
This continued recovery of the housing sector will support stronger residential customer growth and further support a rise in activity we saw at housing-related sectors in 2013 with expectations of continued growth in 2014.
Much of the feedback we have heard from our economic roundtable participants is consistent with the factors that drive our electric sales outlook for 2014.
Overall our forecasts reflects 0.7% growth from our 2013 weather-normalized results.
As one looks at how the forecast breaks down by our customer class the expected trend is similar to that of the past several years and that industrial growth leads the way.
Specifically our forecast of 0.7% overall growth assumes a 1.1% growth for industrial sales and about half of that rate for both residential and commercial.
Now let’s focus on the other elements of our new forecast including our three-year projection of capital expenditures and the associated financing plan.
Based on our CapEx forecasts for 2014 to 2016 it totals $14.5 billion more notably the forecast reflects a slowing trend in the rate of capital investments by a regulated subsidiary.
The main drivers of this trend are expected completion of Plant Ratcliffe in Kemper County Mississippi the transition to startup activities for Vogtle units 3 and 4 and the expected completion of compliance investments for EPA's MATS rule.
In addition we have outlined potential Southern Power investments for the three-year period which totaled $1.4 billion.
These placeholders represent potential acquisitions or new build capacity projects consistent with Southern Power’s longstanding capacity contract-oriented business model as well as potential opportunities to invest in additional PV solar projects over this timeframe.
As always we will provide the details of any specific opportunities as they arise to an appropriate level of certainty.
Overall our three-year CapEx total is expected to be $15.9 billion.
As we turn to the financing plans for the next three years there are several things to note.
First the only equity issuances we are forecasting over the three-year periods are the same $600 million in 2014 that we highlighted late last year.
This was primarily driven by our desire to preserve our target equity ratios in light of the estimated Kemper loses recorded in 2013.
Our current forecast anticipates that all this equity will be issued through our various internal plans.
We currently project zero equity needs in 2015 and 2016.
Secondly we have highlighted the appropriate size and timing for Georgia Powers draws under the DOE loan guarantee program and an estimated total for securitized bonds to be issued by Mississippi Power to fund a portion of the Kemper project.
As our cash profile continues to improve over the next several years our three-year financing plan reflects very little new capital market issuances which may increase with potential new investments by Southern Power.
However it is important to note that our forecast would still reflect zero equity needs for 2015 and 2016 even if we spend the entire amount reflected in our CapEx forecast for potential Southern Power growth projects.
We have provided a more detailed financing schedule in the appendix of our slide deck which breaks these out by subsidiary.
All of the forecast elements we discussed sales CapEx equity and cash flow factor into our earnings guidance which I would like to share with you now.
First let’s focus on 2014.
As noted earlier our 2013 earnings per share results of $2.71 excluding charges came in a year of extremely mild weather heavy rainfall and a still sluggish economy.
However we largely overcame the financial impact of those external factors by demonstrating an ability to mitigate revenue shortfalls with lower spending.
As a result it’s fair to consider $2.71 a normalized earnings per share result.
Using $2.71 as the starting point we then adjust for the additional share dilution resulting from the estimated Kemper losses which totaled $0.07.
As we have shared previously this step change is simply a function of the new shares we’re issuing to preserve our target equity ratios at both Mississippi Power and Southern company.
Growing 4% to 5% from this adjusted starting point establishes a midpoint for our new 2014 guidance range.
To establish a reasonable range for the year we then add plus or minus $0.04 a very modest 1.5% to this midpoint to set a range at $2.72 to $2.80 per share.
Now let’s transition to expectations for 2015 and 2016.
In our last earnings call we shared a very distinctive trend where we are beginning to see which we are beginning to see in our long-term forecast.
More specifically we highlighted a slowing of EPS growth in the middle of the decade.
This slowing is largely a function of a slowing level of capital spending especially relative to a capital base that has grown significantly in the recent years with new generation and environmental investments.
Combined with the increased operating cash flow associated with these same projects the rate of growth and total invested capital slows over the next several years.
Consistent with these trends our estimates for earnings per share growth for 2015 is 3% to 4% from our 2014 guidance range and our estimate for 2016 is another 3% to 4% above our estimate for 2015.
As we look beyond 2016 we continue to see potential for the growth rates we accelerate.
For instance we are likely to see new generation investment opportunities later this decade for both Southern Power and our traditional operating companies as well as new environmental spending.
Additionally beginning several years ago we raised our equity ratio by several hundred basis points to preserve our financial integrity during a period of increased construction risk.
As our major projects are completed there maybe an opportunity to unwind some of that equity ratio cushion and maintain our credit quality at the same time; this would also have a positive impact on earnings per share growth.
In accessing our earnings estimates for 2014 through 2016 we have also reconfirmed our ability that continuing with dividend increases of $0.07 per year is sustainable.
While dividend increases are subject to Board approval the implied payout ratios associated with a $0.07 per year increase are reasonable within the context of our strong cash flow business model and constructive regulatory jurisdictions.
So to summarize we estimate EPS growth of approximately 4% to 5% in 2014 off of an adjusted 2013 base.
Our growth estimates for 2015 and 2016 is 3% to 4%.
Beyond 2016 we see potential to reaccelerate that growth.
Based on our level of confidence we expect to continue our current dividend growth strategy.
As a side note our earnings estimates for the first quarter of 2014 is $0.56 per share.
I will now turn the call back over to Tom for his closing remarks.
Thanks Art.
Earlier I highlighted something that I want to take a minute to reinforce namely our track record of delivering regular predictable and sustainable earnings along with that a consistent dividend growth trajectory.
We are extremely disciplined in how we approach earnings guidance and dividend in Southern Company.
We provide guidance once a year during our fourth quarter conference call in January like this one and we have never changed our guidance range during the remainder of the year.
Additionally our range is tentatively small relative to those of other utilities.
On the average over the past decade our guidance range has been the smallest relative to the other 19 companies in the Philadelphia Utility Index and as an affirmation of Art’s earlier point on the effectiveness of our spending flexibility we have been inside or slightly above these narrow EPS ranges every single year over the past decade as we were inside those ranges other than excluding items.
Combined with the fact that we have had sustainable dividend growth every year for more than a decade even through the toughest of economic times we believe the risk return profile of Southern Company remain an unmatched value.
We are now ready to take your questions.
Operator we will now take the first question.
Hi Steve.
Hi Tom.
How are you? I don’t think I’m ever first on a call surprised.
When you look at the growth in 2015 and 2016 in terms of earnings growth it doesn’t totally match the growth in the capital.
That you show 2015 2016 so 2015 has higher capital growth and it slows in 2016 but the earnings growth it’s kind of consistent can you maybe explain just those differences? Yes.
Steve are you saying it that earnings growth is slower than the CapEx growth is that where you are going?  No it isn’t.
CapEx growth in 2015 is about 5% the investor capital growth in 2016 3.5% but then the earnings growth for both years are kind of consistent so the 2015 growth theory year should have been higher to match the capital growth and then slowdown in 2016? So I get a lot of things going on there but we’ve got invested capital that’s actually expected to grow but it’s been offset with some cash as well and Southern Power is also an element of that as well.
We include there assume some expansion at Southern Power and some of that could be in the form of new solar projects which would be more productive to income in those timeframe.
And let me add a little bit about on that.
So we have often talked about kind of how we put a risk premium on packed advantage investing.
It is clear that if we invest in solar projects we get a big pop to ITC.
Those pops are not sustainable.
And so in order to provide a growth trajectory you got to continue to add add add and it also adds to your risk of being able to recognize economic value of those tax benefit.
For example if you had a hurricane you would spend all the hurricane expenses in the current period and it puts out the economic consequence of the tax credit.
What we see in 16 for example is kind of the aggregate effect of not so much tax oriented investing but returns kind of base load investing at Southern Power which in the very near term with the little dilute in other words you don’t earn big return it’s kind of AFUDC the return tend to be more of the sustainable matter that we like.
So I think that shape it.
The times of investment we are assuming for Southern Power is a big deal.
And then I guess the last kind of point would be that earned ROE is based on average invested capital not year-end.
So you got to account for deltas in going from one year at 4.9 and another year at 3.6 you need to average the consequences.
So won’t have that kind of year-to-year discreet impact.
Okay.
And then just the commentary that you made on the right side about the long-term growth drivers.
Yes.
Is that kind of highlight that my sense in the last call was that growth was potentially growing slow in 16 and 17 and then maybe get better along long-term are you trying to say or do you trying to understand that look it is status quo is set to flow but these other things that could pop up that could kind of get us back up again? Yes I think.
More into the 3% to 4%? Yes Steve I think that worthy of a little bit of commentary here.
Let me kind of illustrate some of the thinking.
It is kind of a business as usual take that would say look 14 is 5 4 to 5 15 16 is 3 to 4 and we will review that three year period.
And then we said based on these assumptions which we believe will come true new generation requirements and in fact the latest thinking is those generation could potentially accelerate.
Remember retiring a bunch of capacity in 15 and 16 so we’re looking at the adequacy of that.
Environmental expenditures Southern Power this whole notion of are we overcapitalized during this period where we have very little construction risks and one of the charts we showed was a debt chart that shows our debt requirements from new money is very minimal.
So we’re in this cash flow position we talked about before.
So the base case is just we foreshadowed which was unusual for us at the last call and we’re showing it now in a lot more detail of a shaping of the earnings per share growth that is 4 to 5 3 to 4 3 to 4 and then beyond 16 we expect it to reaccelerate based on our host of unknown.
There are other things we could along the way that would improve the earnings per share growth rate but recall as long as I’ve been around here we’ve been a big EVA shop.
And by that I mean we think we create value by the joint function of risk and return and we are exceedingly disciplined in how we evaluate risk.
So for us to accelerate the growth and earnings per share beyond this kind of business as usual day we would be very careful in looking at what happened to our risk profile along the way.
So there is a host of issue out there.
Business as usual depending on how the unknown actually occur 17 18 is one of the reacceleration long-term.
There are things along the way we have ongoing discussions with the Board we talk about it and argue with each other all the time at the other alternative that are available to us during this period.
But what we’re showing you right now is our best guess as to a business as usual evaluation.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
You bet.
Thank you.
Hi Greg.
Good afternoon guys.
Couple of questions.
Just with the follow-up to Steve’s question is if one of the – one of the factors perhaps affecting the growth rate seems slower than the rate of capital growth contracts or hedges that you have at Southern Power that are rolling off get our headwinds and sort of our net against what would otherwise be normal growth in rate base earnings in the core businesses or is that not something that’s a factor? Not much of a factor.
Southern Power isn’t throwing at that much.
You need to look at just kind of just averaging effect that we talked about.
If you take average ROE and therefore the generation of earnings per share it tends to moderate with discrete year-to-year differences in CapEx.
That’s where I thought Steve was telling.
So what you see is just kind of a moderation effect.
I wouldn’t attach and then when you add on what’s going on with cash has gone with Southern Power and a variety of other factors.
That was causing kind of a delta.
Don’t expect in any single year a change in invested capital you got to average it across the couple of years anyway.
Understood.
We don’t expect 490 to equal 49 and 360 to equal 36.
Got it.
Two more questions.
One is that the amount of Southern Power CapEx that you’ve assumed you’re going to spend over the next three years is significantly a lot worth than the placeholder you have for the… Yes.
So last three year rolling period? That’s right.
What’s cause you to downsize that? You talked about solar and you talked about baseload.
Can you extrapolate a little bit more on what you see as opportunities there and what are the milestones we should look for to get comfortable but that capital can be deployed at a good IRR? Yes okay so great stuff and actually I got to give you two of those.
That about two years ago you called it circumstances slowing invested capital growth and therefore what happened to earnings per share like I said about two years ago you raised this issue and what we said is we are working on it.
On one hand if you think about a normal kind of investment in different portfolio horizon all we have done is moved down the growth curve down the risk curve.
Our value creation we think is pretty consistent.
Now what we have in there for Southern Power is based on a reasonable look and certainly part of that look involve the Southeast United States being in a capacity over-supply situation through the rest of this decade.
As you get into the 2020s you need to have start building into the late part of this decade in order to make sure you have capacity in place.
What we are watching right now is kind of a couple of factors and these polar vortex issues are pretty instructive.
If you look around the United States the United States did fine during these periods of significant load increases but I think it illustrates the fact that along with the affect of [indiscernible] and the retirement of a lot of capacity is mainly that value of capacity is higher than what we think it is now i.e.
the equilibrium point maybe closer then otherwise we suggest.
So that’s kind of thing one.
Then two; we’ve also said that Southern Power has turned down business outside the Southeast.
And so therefore we’ve been looking closer at other opportunities; Texas MISO maybe certain other parts of the United States.
We are continuing that.
In terms of creating placeholders for those opportunities my sense is we have been reasonably conservative.
So you should just know that Southern Power has a great deal of interest from us and every meeting that we are in there with those we remind that if they can hit IRR requirements that they have all the capital they need to grow.
Capital is not a constraint here and so we are pushing them as hard as we should.
In our external kind of presentation I think we are being reasonably conservative.
Said in other way there maybe upsides I just don’t want to count on.
Thanks Tom.
I taken up a lot of time.
I’ll circle back at the end of the queue.
Take care.
Great.
Thank you.
Hey Tom hey Art how are you? Hi Jim.
Pleased [ph] okay.
Pleased okay glad to slow down there.
Couple of questions; I am confused on the bridge between 2013 and 2014 was weather like $0.14 below normal for 13 on a weather normalized basis so what am I missing there? Yes 2013 was down $0.14 below normal.
Okay.
And most of that was in the summer.
What you say is what $0.12? I didn’t follow your question.
So the question is if you were $2.64 on your adjusted base and you are adding back to $0.14 that would take you closer to the $2.78 range why am I looking at a $2.72 to $2.80 range? What we have done is normalize the result for our O&amp;M spending… Okay.
Which really drove it back and when you do year-over-year versus against our plan you get different numbers.
But that’s when we look at our plan we were down $0.14 on weather we were probably down about $0.06 on economic growth and offset that basically with our cost control.
One of the things just speaking about on second question is deferred taxes in the absence of bonus depreciation; can you give us some guidance as to how you think that line item on the cash flow statement is going to look going forward?  Well we still have some bonus in 2013 probably in the $400 million range is it higher $680 million while I was talking about 2013 2013 was probably end up for – close to $500 million $550 million.
2014 is expected to be $680 million and then beyond that there is not anymore.
Now that we go…  Go back to a more normalized wages.
And then I guess the last question maybe this is for you Tom is you’ve got a little bit of dividend payout ratio creep going on.
When you get to that 2019 2020 range what kind of payout ratio are you thinking about?   So it depends on a host of unknowns but we think it’s south of 75% would be my guess you’d be in that neighborhood depends like how what you do what we’ve indicated here is that with the ranges we are showing you based on how the next three year period goes I think you are in a 73% to 77% range that’s the way the math works.
To the extent and remember as you add $0.07 a year your growth rate is actually dwindling a bit maybe from 3.5% to 3%.
So as earnings per share grows again and we think we reaccelerate beyond the 3% to 4% to beyond 4% our payout ratio goes down it just depends on what year you want to pick but I would feel reasonably comfortable saying core post of assumptions we’re south of 75%.
Okay so then that would include all the benefit from Kemper coming online and then Vogtle coming online which should be a big rate base there right in the last presentation?  Well we are adding the rate base with CWIP remember.
Right.
It’s a big cash flow in fact it was a big deal yes.
I understand the math thank you.
Yes sir.
Hi good afternoon.
Inc.</strong>  Good afternoon.
A couple of clarification Tom just to go into a little bit more insight into your outlook through 2016 and firstly for 2014 you had mentioned you guys are budgeting 0.7% load growth.
Are you keeping that constant for 2015 and 2016 as well or what’s embedded as far as load growth is concerned in those years? Well we are doing GP.
GDP.
GDP growth to 2.5% to 3% kind of over that timeframe and you should use your 50% kind of ratio in round numbers.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Yes these.
Inc.</strong> So some pickup.
There will be some pickup in 2015 we think just north of the 1% level and then maybe a little stronger than that in 2016.
And let me just add one more thing if you look at the momentum in the second half which we called and then you see what happened in the fourth quarter the numbers don’t actually drive in other words the momentum looks stronger than what we are projecting.
Here again we try to be conservative in our estimates we are off to a good start.
The other thing you look forward to is the kind of headlights that are provided by our economic development.
We think that if we had to look at our backlog on a number of different factors we think we are kind of up 20% on our backlog in other words we are seeing lots of good things coming into the southeast.
One interesting thing you may find is onshore.
We are seeing more foreign companies consolidating or adding new facilities in the southeast.
We think that’s good labor force it’s gains and efficiency a modern production facility and frankly cheap energy relative to other places around the world.
I’ve been saying for sometime around the United States if we continue on the right kind of national energy policy we can provide America with unassailable advantage in manufacturing growing jobs growing personal incomes.
I think we are starting to see some of that.
Yes Ali let me add to that a little bit we’ve talked about where the normal sales growth last year being 0.4% but we really believe that with all the rainfalls we don’t normalize for rainfalls it certainly had an affect on residential sales because the number of days above 100 or above 90 degrees last year was about one day in the third quarter we normally have more than 100.
So you’ve got this weather normalization effect.
We think we’ve understated real growth here.
When I look at residential class we added 27 000 new customers last year about 3 000 more than we thought.
On the commercial side of the house we added 3 000 new commercial customers.
We are beginning to see the growth in those sectors as well which is the connecting point between industrial growth residential growth and then following that commercial growth.
Got it got it.
And Art second question to you and you alluded to that a bit I know there is normalization to be done as well but can you just remind us how we should think about O&amp;M growth off this 2013 base? Yes it’s a good question Ali.
In 2014 we estimate that O&amp;M will grow roughly 9% or maybe $300 million or so about a third of that O&amp;M is for environmental.
The rest will be a return to what we call normal operating levels that are supported by the recent rate cases both in Gulf and in Georgia.
Growth for 2015 and 2016 we think averages about 3.5% a year 2.5% of that would be kind of normal O&amp;M growth and then in 2015 you will have to add about another 1% for operations of Kemper County.
And so that kind of paints the picture for you.
Absolutely.
And last question just to clarify.
In your financing plans you’ve assumed the DOE loan guarantee comes through and you are drawing down on that et cetera.
So I’m assuming you’re obviously extremely confident of getting it.
But for whatever reason if that doesn’t come through and maybe that’s 1% or 2% and if that doesn’t happen No it would be pure debt.
Yes  Thank you.
Yes sir.
Hey you know what I just feel compelled to throw one more statistic out because it’s along the lines of this questions about growth and everything else.
We talked that there is a lot of the fed right now.
One of the triggers in the kind of tapering decision that’s going on today is what’s going on with the long-term unemployment rate.
Let’s recall that that rate is influenced probably too rosy if you will by the fact that more and more people are leaving the workforce and it includes people that are moving from partnering from full time to part time.
I think a real instruct is kind of statistic that we should be watching now is personal income growth.
We call also there is in this theory that energy efficiency is driving down electricity sales.
We haven’t seen that as much of a factor.
What we do see as a factor are things like the cost and electricity and personal income growth.
And the personal income growth is flat that will have more of a damping effect on sales.
So remember to keep all this into account as we come up with our forward forecast.
Thank you.
Operator take the next question.
Hey Mike.
Hey Tom.
Hey Tom and Art thank you for taking my questions.
When you –embedded within your guidance how should we think about which of your businesses which of your regulated operating companies are earning their authorized levels and which ones might either be under earning or given what’s in your state-by-state demand forecast potentially doing better than what the authorized is? We pretty much put the challenge on each of our companies to earn at the upper levels of their range.
Remember what we got to do is you compare us against almost anybody in the United States we do a darn good job of earning our authorized returns company-by-company that’s kind of what you see.
Now there is always a host of factors there in terms of your ability to kind of think about weather economic growth O&amp;M levels et cetera.
But if you go back and look at history we challenge folks to get right at the top.
Got it.
And I hate to do this and I want to stay in more the near-term meaning 2014 or 2015 because I don’t know the world will change 572 times especially now and 2020 so forecasting out that hard really hard.
But your demand forecast one interesting thing is you had really strong industrial demand this year I mean up 4.5% a real positive kind of tailwind and yet in your 2014 guidance you’re basically saying that’s going to slow a decent chunk.
What’s the driver of the slowing there? So Michael this is so much fun.
We’d beat each other to death on coming up with these estimates.
And I tried to allude to this earlier when you look at the momentum on the second half 3.6% to the second half 4.8% in the fourth quarter it looks as if we are like all I can tell you is we have challenged each other in very significant ways and coming up with this we do bottoms up we do tops down we bound to get better economists.
Our estimates are a little bit lower than what the fed would say right now.
Let’s just say it is reasonable and conservative and we hope there is upside.
And one other thing I’d add to that Michael is as we get a lot of input from our customers and some of our very largest customers rotate productions around the country at various facilities some of it driven by price some of it driven by just location of the need or whatever material they’re producing.
So we’re trying to make judgments around those kind of issues as well as we prepare forecast in a reasonable bound of expectation.
And finally just real quick on Vogtle can you I know it’s embedded within the new generation forecast within your capital spending views or outlook can you just give us some guidance in term or reiterate kind of what the CapEx on Vogtle for at this three-year cycle is likely to be? Well hey Michael if I could just ask to your patience there we’re going to file VCM I guess 9 and 10 in February.
And we’re going to give a great deal of illumination around those statistics when we do that.
If you want more general stuff we can give you that I’m sure but we’re getting ready to get a lot of detail on that.
Got it.
I can follow-up again offline I’m happy to do that.
Sure.
Yes.
Thanks guys much appreciated.
You bet thank you.
Hi Andy.
LLC</strong> Hey guys how are you? [Indiscernible].
LLC</strong> I’m all right where did you guys sleep last night? Georgia Power has a condo that’s where me and Art slept.
We had people in offices we had people across the street here at a hotel and Art did file in trusted funds going over the [indiscernible].
LLC</strong> Okay I’m sorry to hear that Art.
Thank you Tom.
LLC</strong> Actually all my questions were answered.
I just have one to say that the housekeeping thing.
The guidance you gave 2014 2015 2016 is that basic or diluted? Basic sometimes.
LLC</strong> Okay and as well about a $0.03 difference.
Is that right? Less than $0.01.
LLC</strong> Less than $0.01.
Okay thank you.
All right thank you.
Good afternoon guys.
Hey Kit.
Hey Kit.
So this is a little bit of follow-up to Andy’s question as well again sort of housekeeping but Art can you just walk through how the dilution adjustment works that so for taken the actual ongoing earnings from 2014 then we subtract $0.07 for future equity issuances is that what we’re doing there? Well that’s what we have in our guidance.
Correct.
We’re adjusting to that and we certainly have already reflected that in our forward-looking stuff.
But the math around the fully diluted it assumes certain stock option exercises and the shares that would be issued in association with that.
and that number can likely move in the future as you move forward.
So it’s kind of hard to give you like what we got right now is less than a $0.01 but that could change depending on the number of options that are outstanding.
Yes just to make sure the way we got the question before the way we answered the question was dilution associated with the stock options and other kind of contingent equity that that's out there.
There was the other question about the 10% right and that was associated with equity underlying commitment to maintain natural integrity with Kemper right so.
That was clear information.
So when this – I guess what I’m asking is so if when we’re looking at what you actually report say in 2014 is that going to be the guidance is going to be in a range of 272 to 280 less some part of the $0.07 or? That $0.07 is completely separate that I was trying to illustrate.
All right [indiscernible] is separate.
Okay.
The other dilutionary time as it really associated with the exercise of option.
Right okay.
So that’s on a big.
All right so we’re looking for 270 to 280 and then these other numbers for 15 and 16 that you get out here.
You got it.
Okay.
One last item on Kemper.
So what’s the schedule for upcoming testing and milestones that we should be keeping an eye on.
Yes the next I think we mentioned in the script a little bit the first fire to the combustion turbine.
I’m sorry misspoke.
It’s really the first gasifier heat up which we expect to be sometime in the second quarter and then beyond that it will be the delivery of reliable syngas the each of the combined cycles.
And those should be achieve sometime late summer early fall.
The other thing I just want to point out to here just to remind everybody if we had perfect foresight the cost increases we had on Kemper were really kind of entered into the day we send it in to a fixed price agreement with only 10% engineering down that was kind of 2009 and 2010.
The construction of the plant is actually gone pretty darn well and in fact and this latest reporting period we think we are on budget on schedule on construction.
And with respect of the additional $40 million that really is with our best judgment which we could have done nothing and wait until later period with more certainty but in all of our collective wisdom and we argued about this a lot.
We decided that it was prudent to add $40 million to the contingency around cost expected around start-up.
So construction is going great.
We will know more about start-up as we get into the June and beyond timeframe.
Okay.
Okay thank you very much Thank you.
I appreciate it.
Hey Dan.
Hi guys.
Hey just on with your power demand looking pretty and mostly high so far this quarter.
I was kind of wondering what the fleet dispatch has been and how the plants have been performing and with the running gas you guys see a lot more coal burn coming this year to see this time we calibrate the fleet a little bit.
Fascinating stuff.
So let me give you the first good answer is the systems running great.
We are very happy with our reliability.
In fact I think we noted our wires reliability the best in history.
So that’s great.
The thing that interesting is is there a change in equilibrium point.
We've been saying that may have pushed half at least in the Southeast nearly 2020.
With all these spikes associated with the polar vortex I mean we actually we’re loaded up pretty well.
All of our unit that could run are running.
So if it’s a gas units perhaps there is an acceleration of the value of capacity at least in the Southeast.
The other thing is fascinating about this I commented on a bit in both CNBC and Bloomberg this morning.
There this whole motion of that’s a gas in the United States frankly it’s been a big story at Southern Company.
We now are the second or third largest gas consumer in the United States.
We have made a big ship the way from coal to gas.
You all must heard and I have written and spoken about 5.3 cautious about natural gas.
The polar vortex is called that at least point number 2 is that to be true that is the need for infrastructure.
The new gas is in a place it is definitely old gas.
And all of a sudden we find and need to build more pipes to make sure the critical service provider to have FT farm transportation in those pipes and we got to make sure we add adequate storage.
Now we have secured all of the FT we need for our business.
And we have seen prices 450 per million Btu and I guess I spiked up a little bit.
If I could just toss some before we get on the call maybe they are in the high 4s to 5s and it’s been since 2010 since we hit numbers like that.
In fact some people were saying that we wouldn’t hit $5 dollars again for the rest of our life time.
Okay if you live at the end of the 5s particularly you folks in the Northeast if you don’t have sufficient infrastructure if you don’t have AFT if you don’t have sufficient storage we’ve seen a blow out in some of those prices up to a $130 per million Btu.
One of the suggestions is that the beta of the energy supply to the United States is increasing as a result of the push to gas.
We’ve been saying that.
It’s true.
So one of the things you got to think about is what is the infrastructure what is the availability of AFT to assets all over the U.S.
and how do we think about storage in this new environment.
How do we think about industrial capacity in this new environment big deal.
Overall the system is performing great.
At least for Southern reliability looks good for the years to come.
The only question with us is what happens to the equilibrium point.
The dispatch on the non-PRB coal plants is again been pretty low for a while now.
At that 455 oil gas drum reviewed to see those plants running a bit more this summer just with being helpful of gas inventories down in the region.
So if you see gas so if you see gas in the 5 to 6 range you are going to start running probably your Illinois Basin plant and then your Central App plants after that but that’s kind of the range.
PRB gas in the 3 to 4 Central App and Illinois Basin 5 to 6 with Illinois Basin being ahead of that.
The other fact I just kept coal prices constant.
We think coal prices come down a bit.
The other impact that hit us last year was the abundance of Hydro.
So interesting stuff.
All this is a little bit influx recall again Southern is uniquely positioned and then we had huge optionality among and between gas and coal.
We can swing gas from I think it’s 35% of energy to 55% of energy and we can swing coal 25% to 45%.
So we will be able to deliver the best package we think of energy to our customers based on our diverse portfolio.
And I guess with another question moving back and looked at the fourth quarter presentation from last year and the CapEx numbers you guys have for 2014 and 2015 this year are higher than what’s you guys had a year ago and the growth rate was kind of in the 4% to 6% range and so to the numbers now? Is there some deterioration in earned ROEs or what bridges that gap because I don’t I don’t know that I saw all of that step down if I put all those numbers into the model? Yeah Dan this is Art.
This is probably Kemper.
We have written off estimated probable losses but we are still having to invest that capital.
So that showing up in the CapEx numbers in 2014.
So that’s not happened in the $0.07 recalibration? So these are the base line or was in the growth would be from there? It is in the $0.07 recalibration but it also in the CapEx.
Yes.
Okay.
I will follow-up [indiscernible].
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Sorry it mute buttoned.
Can you hear me now? Turn down your radio Jonathan.
CA20 I think you knocked that you’re hoping to get that in place in February before you have been saying Q4 is there enough legal in the schedule to mean that doesn’t matter very much or? Yes Jonathan we tried to be – let me take catching with that just a little we tried to be very careful in that we want to get assembly by yearend and we hit it by – we missed it by like 5 days or whatever it was.
So we assembled by year end in our view.
That was much more important.
Us moving in into the whole we’ve got plenty of flat time around that.
That you should not consider moving that as critical path.
Okay.
So what are the sort of the next critical path items we should be watching that you are going to sort of point us to? Jonathan if you look the slide there is that diagram we showed you that CA01 Module that goes inside that containment vessel.
That would probably the next item on the critical path list but remember that these things as we move in and out of these things kind of change places in critical path but that is the next item big item on critical path.
And that’s kind of a third quarter event.
Okay so most of this sort of progress to this picture on the slide is more backend of the year? Well it’s progress throughout the year but CaO-1 is in the….
In terms of placement in there so if you kind of look at that picture you see CaO-1 is a great big thing and it’s got lots of panels and it’s kind of complex walls and all that.
That will be going on in the module assembly building so that the all sorts of progress throughout the year just as there was on CA20.
Okay.
And we believe we will be able to hit it.
The placing of it is almost less important than the assembly of it.
Okay that’s great.
Thank you for the update and then on with this kind of period I guess either more conservative outlook or flatter growth Yes sure.
And remember again we are very kind of analytical in terms of how we think about value creation.
Value is a function of risk and return and I grew up in a period where we decided the growth was the end-all to end-all and we chased growth and really I don’t think did an effective job of evaluating risk.
If you grow risk faster than you grow growth then you destroy value.
What you’ve seen with Southern Company and especially we talked last year about getting all of this regulatory wood chopping behind us we’ve done that I think in an exemplary manner in 2013.
So here is the deal.
As that financial pressure associated with the CapEx plans start to go away our risk starts to go down.
All we are doing is moving along the risk return curve.
We think our value creation aspects are terrific through this period.
Now but remember what we say about M&amp;A; in my opinion the whole work around mergers and acquisitions is a how not a what.
The what is what it results for us in terms of the portfolio outcomes on risk and return.
The how could be finding assets building assets or buying corporate entities.
So I don’t view M&amp;A as a what I view it as a how.
It is a means to achieve something else.
We are going to be very disciplined as we always have been about looking at what happens to the total value creation profile at Southern the base case.
And in fact we are showing you a lot more clarity in this call than any time in my memory.
The reason for that is we have a great deal of confidence in it.
Can we improve it? We are going to work like crazy to see if we can but we will not chase growth at the expense of increasing risk so that it destroys value ultimately.
Okay thank you Tom.
Can I one another quick thing… Sure.
Certainly if I have to…  Yes.
I think this is a little basic now but the last thing I remember you giving a range of like $175 million to $190 million of earnings out of Southern Power.
That’s right.
Is that still a good number for this year? Gone down a little bit for a variety of reasons.
We would say kind of over this timeframe $145 million to $175 million and you say well what happened there? Well a couple of moving pieces; one is that the energy margins have essentially gone down with the rising gas prices.
Interestingly for us anyway gas prices have almost tripled remember I said it wasn’t volatile.
Well it’s gone from I don’t know $1.85 per million Btu at one time to now there is kind of $4.50 to $5 per million Btu.
I don’t know where it sustains after the polar vortex withdraws.
So gas prices have gone up largely our business at Southern Power is largely gas fired and so therefore as gas prices go up coal price has come down the pool interchange rate changes and our margins decrease a bit number one.
Number two the pace of the economy has slowed based on prior projection.
Now you look at the evidence in fourth quarter of 2013 you can say boy that looks awfully foolish you look at our economic development stop that looks awfully foolish.
The numbers we’re showing you I think are reasonably conservative and prudent.
So what’s the potential for economic growth beyond what we see? I don’t know.
The third I guess would be just kind of what the opportunity for Southern Power to deploy more assets and will they be tax-oriented assets like solar to give you the big non-sustainable though pops and investment tax credit and net income or will they be of the nature that give you more of the sustainable earnings picture of kind of baseload generation normally associated with natural gas.
It’s all those factors.
Is that exactly the same as the outlook the earnings projections you’ve given us for 2014 through 2016 assume something flattish within that lower range that you just spoke there? $145 million to $175 million is the decent range.
Through the whole period? Yes.
Things of kind of potential upside? Yes and lots of uncertainty around that.
All right thank you.
Yes sir thank you.
Hi good afternoon Tom.
Hey.
Just hopefully two quick ones; one is just housekeeping really the dilution from Kemper you have minus $0.07 just how do you calculate that and is there a potential for anymore equity in 2014 I guess maybe depending upon write-offs of Kemper? Well we certainly are very confident in the cost estimates that we put out but there are risks as we move through startup and as we finish construction and we have outlined those pretty clearly.
But when we think about the $0.07 we’re issuing about $1.3 billion in total equity that’s really a little bit more than what we need for Kemper and what we’re really targeting here is a common equity ratio somewhere in the neighborhood of 43.5% 44%.
So we got a little bit cushion there but again this is the commitment we made to catch the whole around the write-offs so we do have a little cushion as we move forward in time and that’s what the $0.07 reflects.
There are other discussions we’re kind of in now that to my memory we haven’t been in decades I don’t know but when you think about it we did picking up our equity ratio in anticipation are a really ambitious construction program that now appears to be kind of finishing up.
When you look at our new debt requirements they’re really modest.
So you have all these kind of interesting questions about how do you think about new equity over time.
On prior calls I’ve talked about our cash flow posture during some years that could cause us to repurchase the equity.
It seemed to us it would make more sense not to issue and then not to have to repurchase than issuing and repurchasing overtime.
So there is all kinds of shaping about what we’re going to do about new sales of equity are we overcapitalized for this exceedingly low business risk environment we appeared to be moving into and then you have the wildcard of Southern Power and what else maybe there in terms of any scale of purchases.
And let me remind you all if we have the opportunities to invest in value creating ways with Southern Power we will do it and we will do it even beyond the placeholders if those opportunities arise.
Just trying to jump in lastly when you talk about maybe post 2016 and you want to I think your term using like reaccelerate growth.
I mean is that target of what you set out maybe two or three years ago of 5% to 7% or is that target 4% to 6% I mean what is management shooting for this reacceleration? We’ve really argued about what to say about this one.
And that you’re dealing with a conservative company so I hope you’ll accept this one.
All we want to say is reaccelerate beyond 4% don’t know what the number is going to be let’s see when we get there there is a host of variables involved.
We think it will be better than what we see in 2015 and 2016.
Great thank you very much for you time.
Thank you.
Hello Paul Inc.</strong> Good afternoon.
How are you Paul? Inc.</strong> Good.
Just I guess I just have one housekeeping question.
Can you share with us what your expected share count for 2014 is? Yeah well I guess I’m looking at that.
How you are doing? We heard you had an accident.
Inc.</strong> Well I’ll be on crutches for a while longer but… Oh man.
Inc</strong> It’s day-by-day.
I am sorry to hear that.
Okay well hope you get well soon.
It’s really beyond that.
We heard that well Art did one today he looks like he was trying to upper source it to be honest with you.
So what we are looking for in is the amount of share.
Inc</strong> Yes.
Hang on just a second.
The average number of shares for 2014 is almost 900 million shares.
The average number of shares in 2014 is about 900 million.
Inc</strong> And you said no new equity at all in 2015 and 2016 including drifts in employee type programs is that correct? That’s correct based on all these assumptions in Southern Power and everything else.
That’s right.
Inc</strong> And is that kind of linked with your view that you are going to be overcapitalized for awhile or in a while? The over capitalized statements and remember what we always want to do with that is to preserve our financial integrity and bond ratings.
Really it goes to kind of how new investment opportunities develop and kind of the post 2016 timeframe.
When we finish Vogtle certainly as we get to the end of Vogtle this whole profile changes completely.
Our view is that layering up of equity adding in to the big construction program really and recall in 2008 these guys remind me we were about 40.5% equity ratio and in 2013 we’re 44%.
Well that was heading in to as we’ve build up the equity ratio during this contractor period now we are getting better.
We have not reflected in any earnings per share estimates we are giving you.
We are giving you business as usual.
We have not reflected any de-layering of the equity ratio in any of our estimates so that would represent upside but recall we want to make sure that we are able to preserve our financial integrity position during this timeframe.
Inc</strong> Understood thank you.
Yes sir thank you.
Hey Michael.
Hey Tom how are you doing? I apologize if this is already asked before but just wanted to confirm about that the place holder CapEx you guys have for Southern Power 1.4 how much of that is solar? Can you break out little bit more like how much of is thermal quantified is that all in Georgia? We were not that fine about it.
So we don’t have a breakout for you.
Listen we’ve been chasing lots of different projects I can tell you that we’ve been chasing some that are thermal and we’ve been looking at some that are solar and it seems like you can do as much as you want to all over the place the real challenge for us is what makes sense in the portfolio and what is at the end of the day the best value recreating strategy for shareholders but we can’t give you a breakout in place holders.
Have you guys talked at all about the prudence review at Kemper that I’m seeing that they may comment on?  No we haven’t but we expect that to occur about June later in May or June.
May of 2014 based on spending full March of 2013.
And Mississippi Power has filed a number of documents related to that I believe in December of last year.
And we certainly don’t want to front run that process.
We don’t want to front run the regulator.
I mean I can tell you my opinion when I look at kind of how the construction has unfolded I think these guys have done a terrific job.
And you said before that the delay of CA20 is really now a big deal right to see moving up a bit on side.
What you got to understand is one of the way that we mitigated some of the problems in the facility that CBI has in Louisiana.
Look to get product out of there put it on site and essentially you have a CBI facility onsite now that holds those pieces of equipment and pieces of metal and then what we do is we have an army of people onsite both Southern and CBI last thing there whatever we need in order to complete the nuclear quality documentation before we put those panels up on the CA20 facility.
So the real timing factor was to get it assembled.
Now that we got it assembled there is lots of work around and things we can do that take frankly the setting of CA20 in the nuclear island away from the critical path and that activity is not critical path.
So we are focused now on assembly of CaO-1.
And in fact on that subject critical path means fairing out Lake Charles the assembly facility right so.
Are you guys happy with the way the things have improved there or? Well we said this a million times.
Look in any project at this magnitude there are always challenges to get measure of success is not that you have challenges that’s how you work around them and I think especially and Philip Asherman CBI cohort that come into play here since they took over Shaw.
The performance the responsiveness the constructive attitude has just really gotten better.
And so we are not depending now solely on the Louisiana facility.
We are moving the fabrication to different points in the United States maybe shipyards in Orleans even couple of facilities couple of the CA20 modules and IHI in Japan.
So what we are doing is we look for what is practical what is reasonable from an economic and timing standpoint and we find the best solution and that's what we have done.
Just one last question you said there were disagreements when you were talking on the economic roundtable and trying to figure out what the economic growth rate should be and one should be assuming and cannot have conservative numbers I’m just wondering what kind of disagreements that you have what were the biggest disagreements over there? I think the economic roundtable did really didn’t have any disagreements there.
They were different numbers.
I think the lowest number of that was out of the group was like 2.25%.
The tallest number was around 3%.
So we are right in the heart of that range.
I think he is referring to the disagreements we had I mean certainly.
You made it clear.
I made it sound like it was a very tough and arduous process just wondering what it was.
Well it always is.
I mean you wouldn’t believe that much we prepared for these calls to get the right stuff.
Ultimately when we give you stuff when you give an estimated it’s everybody’s collective wisdom their best judgment and it’s not through a good certify.
I mean I’ll just tell you if I look at the numbers sometimes and I go where did you grew 3.6 in the second half 4.8 in the fourth quarter and you are projecting what 1.1 for the year.
Why is that and we go through a giant fight? I mean we just do.
What we are providing you is our best judgment I think.
We are conservative.
We don’t try and push the numbers in order to achieve a result.
All right well thank you very much.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
Please proceed with your question.
Hello Mark.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Good afternoon.
Yes I have lot of questions on some of the specifics and kind of long-term plan but just curious maybe to shift to the end of the call here towards some of the policy issues that we are maybe facing over the next couple of years.
There has been a lot of I wouldn’t want to say controversy but just kind of discussion around the numbers that the EPA has used to justify the cost analysis that they present with the new source with the carbon the proposed stuff that went in January but I’m wondering one of your projects obviously and Kemper is one of the benchmarks that they use but obviously with the new engineering and some of the changes in the projects since you imitated I’m just wondering like how do you think that those estimates that they use and the justification based on those does that really turn into a strongly defensible rule because of course this is going to get challenged and just some thoughts around that I guess? Well rather than give you a legal opinion at this point I’ll just talk about the suitability of using ‎Plant Ratcliffe in Kemper County.
I met with Gina McCarthy and her whole staff along with some other CEOs in the industry and I told this to her I said it on TV.
The characteristics of Kemper County are such that they are reasonably unique to that site in other words the [indiscernible] it’s our specific technology it is the ability in an economic way to do an enhanced oil recovery.
When you set a standard you should use a set of circumstances that are applicable to a broad range of the United States.
We don’t believe that that is those conditions as unique as they maybe there are applicable in a broad sense.
So with that argument first the second one would go to just kind of “Is it commercial? Is it adequately demonstrated?” and I would argue it’s hard to find out why you would believe that it is commercial and demonstrable in a broad sense.
The Southern Company is probably the leader right now in the United States and looking at carbon capture technology.
Not only are we doing it on a pre-combustion basis at Kemper County we are doing it have done on that successful test post combustion at Plant Barry and we’ve had a very good outcome there.
I tend to believe the pre-combustion when you have a very concentrated set of gases leading along a process the more efficient way to do it than on a post combustion where all the gases are diffused  Great appreciated.
Inc.</strong>  Hi good afternoon.
Vedu how are you? Inc.</strong> I’m doing well thank you.
When you think about the reacceleration possibilities 2016  Heavens I would argue that’s almost last in the list of potentials.
We know that we are going to have new generations.
We know that their going to be associated with environmental CapEx.
We are watching very closely as with the data we provided to you today what’s going to happen with the economy and recall there is a set of generation that’s retiring as a result of the EPA's MATS rule or what’s now called MATS.
The confluence of those factors may have some sense as to what happens to the equilibrium point of supply and demand in the next few years.
All of those factors are the primary factors.
In other words you will see this reacceleration of CapEx.
That’s the primary factor.
Frankly this thinking about our capitalization really I think has kind of followed behind the primary facts.
We’ll just see how all that goes.
Those were kind of interdependent right.
In other words as you accelerate CapEx you may need more equity.
So the capitalization discussion is a temporal issue.
Inc.</strong> Okay thank you very much.
You bet.
LLC</strong>  Good afternoon guys.
Hi Paul.
LLC</strong> How you are doing? Dynamite I hope you are well.
LLC</strong> I’m managing.
Just want to check a few quick things 2.5% to 3%.
That’s a national GDP figure right now some regional number.
Is that correct? That’s correct.
LLC</strong> Okay now when we look at the 0.7% growth in 2014 I think Ali was asking about this but I just want to make I understand it that seems a lot less than 0.5% of GDP.
So what’s going on there Well I think it goes down to what Tom mentioned a few moments ago is we try to put out a incredible forecast that we can rely on the sticking to a specific ratio to GDP is influenced by a lot of factors a lot in the industrial side.
I said before we get a lot of input from our customers our large customers as to what their outlooks are for the coming year and so we have to factor those things in.
These are more known quantum force than just drawing a line on a curve and trying to make an estimate.
We have not seen great growth in residential and commercial over the last four years.
So we are very cognizant of the fact that that’s true and then we are trying to make a measured approach towards getting the economy back to full measure and we think that once that occurs then you are going to have more cylinders working around that ratio of 50% to GDP.
And we are covering some territories we heard before but maybe in a more concise way.
I agree with you the industrial numbers look clear that you draw from this big clear to growth that’s something that’s more moderate but that’s what we are projecting.
The other one to keep your eye on is just this whole residential sector.
I think the effect you are seeing now are personal income growth has been relatively flat.
The growth in job doesn’t been necessarily a manufacturing.
Good news for manufacturing is that more efficient i.e.
less people as input to the output they produce therefore they are going to be more sustainable in the long run.
But the manufacturing jobs are ones that are higher paying therefore the increase in jobs in Southeast had been more service industry.
There is a shift as a result of lot of external factors including the Affordable Care Act to move people or at least to inhibit companies from adding full time employees shifting rather to part time employees.
So even though they’re candid in the workforce they are earning less and then there are people leaving the workforce.
So that you get all that kind of thing going on.
The other thing is perhaps a consequence of the housing problem.
At one time 70% of our residential sales came out of single family housing.
Now it looks like perhaps it’s a function of personal income growth perhaps it’s a function of bank tightening lending requirements.
That 70% maybe more like 62% with the delta showing an increase in multifamily.
So it’s all those factors.
LLC</strong> Okay.
For some reason we don’t see sales growth – could give us a update for what’s the sensitivity is around sales growth.
So if we don’t get I guess you guys are saying 1% to 1.5% I think you guys were talking about if you get let’s say just if you get a rule of thumb for every 50 basis point of sales growth how should we think about that in terms of earnings or can you guys do other things and how dependent are you on sales growth I guess in terms of meeting your longer term EPS forecast that you have? I know that Art gave you the juristic.
I’ll give you the other answer.
Look over the past few years we’ve lost $500 million in revenue as associated with weather or slower than expected economic growth and we made that all up with O&amp;M.
In 2013 those numbers were just under $300 million loss revenues reduced expense.
And at the same time we had reduced expense.
We had some of the best of liability and customer satisfaction we’ve ever had.
Art? Yeah Paul the juristic on say a 1% change in retail sales equal across all classes is about $82 million pretax and we talk about cost control or cost flexibility and that would represent less than 2% of non-fuel O&amp;M.
So that goes towards some of the mitigations we have around the sensitivity on sales.
And I can’t stress it enough and I got to think the thousand of employees that make thousands of good decisions every day.
The folks at Southern Company know how to run the utility business in an optimal way and have reliability and serve customers and be safe and did a heck of a job of it.
We are able to demonstrate year end and year out if we can meet the needs of shareholders and deliver earnings targets part of that litany I gave you in the script and do it exceedingly well and run the business well.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So if I hear you correctly if I understand correctly if the sales growth doesn’t – if it doesn’t work out as well you guys store other levers that you can use.
Yes.
LLC</strong> That’s you believe in terms of making these numbers.
And because I mean just in general now we are seeing – we are seeing a fall off in a lot of areas around the country.
Yes.
LLC</strong> So we are just trying to figure it out.
We see the same thing.
I sit on the flat board and I see all the stuff too but you know what these results in the Southeast are awfully gratifying in the fourth quarter.
LLC</strong>  Okay I appreciate the help.
Thanks a lot and have a good day.
Yes sir thank you.
They have answered all the questions.
I’m good thanks.
Thanks Greg.
Yes just very briefly.
Number one let me thank you of all for staying with this on this rather lengthy call but it’s an important one.
This is a little bit of an inflection point in our growth rate in our risk profound and variety of other things.
Interestingly when you look at regulatory work that we had to accomplish last year when you look at the major projects that were in front of us my sense is absent what happened at Kemper County this complete deserves an applause.
I think that they have come through those regulatory processes terrific; their progress on Vogtle is terrific and I think we’re positioned well for years to come.
It will be fascinating to see how we continue to deliver value to shareholders.
We are rest assured that it is our primary focus.
Thank you very much for you attendance on this call and we will talk with you soon.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Southern Company First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participations will be in a listen only-mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Wednesday April 30 2014.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dan Tucker Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Planning.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Nelson.
Welcome everyone to Southern Company’s first quarter 2014 earnings call.
Joining me this afternoon are Tom Fanning Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Company; and Art Beattie Chief Financial Officer.
Let me remind you that we will make forward-looking statements today in addition to providing historical information.
Various important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements including those discussed in our Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
In addition we will present non-GAAP financial information on this call.
Reconciliations to the applicable GAAP measure are included in the financial information we released this morning as well as the slides of this conference call.
You can follow along by accessing the slides posted on our Investor Relations website at www.southerncompany.com.
At this time I’ll turn the call over to Tom Fanning.
Thank you Dan.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
Art will go through the details in a few minutes but first I would like to highlight two of the key drivers of our first quarter earnings growth; cold weather and continued economic growth.
First the weather story.
Around the industry much has been reported lately on the polar vortex the Southeast experienced the second coldest first quarter in the last 20 years and we set a new all time winter peak on our system of 39 130 megawatts.
While the colder than normal weather had an obvious impact on revenue that’s not the only important story.
Operationally the Southern Company’s system delivered on our commitment to provide clean safe reliable and affordable energy to the customers and communities we serve as demonstrated by our crew’s tireless work under the most challenging of circumstances to restore power to nearly 800 000 customers affected by the severe ice storm in mid February.
The winter weather also underscored the importance of developing the full portfolio of energy resources.
As weather-related demand and delivery challenges proved once again how volatile natural gas prices can be Southern Company dispatched one of the industry’s most diverse and the liable generation fleets delivering more than $100 million in fuel cost savings by taking advantage of our fuel optionality.
Second the economy continues to improve.
9 of our 10 largest industrial sectors which account for approximately 80% of industrial sales reflected positive year-over-year growth for the first quarter and all 10 of them were positive in March.
Combined with solid customer growth and usage growth in our residential class we were increasingly confident in the sustained momentum of the Southeast economy.
Let’s turn now to our major projects.
Construction progress continues at Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 in Georgia and at the Kemper County energy facility in Mississippi.
First tremendous progress continues in the construction of the Vogtle project which remained on schedule for the fourth quarter of 2017 and fourth quarter of 2018 for Units 3 and 4 respectively.
Nearly two months ago as planned we successfully executed the heaviest lift to-date placing the 2.2 million pound CA20 module into the Unit 3 Nuclear Island.
Our critical path focus remains on the major elements of the Unit 3 Nuclear Island with the CA05 module scheduled to be installed in the second quarter.
Other signs of our continued construction progress include the walls and concrete under the containment vessel which will support the installation of the shield building panels later this year.
Outside of the Nuclear Island we continue to progress on the major other elements including the cooling tower and turbine building.
We are also very pleased with the progress on both the Unit 4.
The CR-10 module commonly known as the cradle was placed in the Nuclear Island during the first quarter and the containment vessel’s bottom head is scheduled to be set in May.
In February U.S.
Department of Energy Secretary Dr.
Ernie Moniz joined us as the Vogtle site to commemorate America’s first loan guarantee for nuclear construction.
The DOE loan provides a committed source of funds that reduces financial risk while delivering an estimated $250 million and present value benefit to Georgia Power customers.
These savings should translate to lower base rates for customers over the life of the loan.
Including the DOE loan benefits Georgia Power highlighted $2.3 billion of customer benefits in the combined 9th and 10th VCM report filed at the end of February.
This came on the heels of the favor vote by the Georgia PSE to verify and improve the actual capital cost reflected in the 8th VCM.
The current VCM report which reflects $389 million of actual 2013 spending is expected to be voted on by the commission in August.
Turning now to the Kemper project where we are winding down construction and ramping up our start-up activity.
We continue to work toward our next major milestone the heat up of the first gasifier which is now scheduled for mid to late summer.
Additionally we expect to place the combined cycle portion of the plan in the commercial operation this summer.
As we mentioned last quarter the start-up activity for the combined cycle are largely complete and it is expected to be able to serve customer’s energy need during the upcoming peak season.
As we shared in our most recent disclosure we’ve experienced decreases in construction labor productivity due to a combination of adverse weather labor turnover and inefficiencies.
Having assessed the impact of these issues and the risks that additional unanticipated factors could have on the construction and start-up of the project we’ve recorded an additional pre-tax charge of $380 million.
This estimate includes the previously disclosed $184 million in increased labor and weather related expenses and additional $135 million due to the extension of the expected in service date and 61 million of incremental construction costs as an adjustment to the earlier number.
Our confidence remains high in the value of the TRIG technology and the entire Kemper project to Mississippi Power’s customers.
Our ongoing commitment to safety and quality is a primary importance as we focus on completing construction of this first of a kind plant and working through instrumentation and controls integration that is critical for the project success.
Meanwhile Southern Power continues to expand its generation portfolio.
Recently Southern Power closed on the 20 megawatt Adobe Solar Facility our second solar plant in California.
This brings Southern Power’s solar portfolio to approximately 222 megawatts all with quality long term contracts.
We continue to work diligently on additional projects and hope to announce another solar acquisition very soon.
Looking ahead we remain confident in Southern Power’s ability to execute its business plans for remainder of the year.
I will now turn the call over to Art for a financial and economic review.
Thanks Tom.
For the first quarter of 2014 we earned $0.39 per share compared to $0.09 per share in the first quarter of 2013 an increase of $0.30 per share.
Included in these results for the first quarter of 2014 is an after tax charge against earnings of $235 million or $0.27 per share related to the current cost estimate for Kemper as detailed in the 8-K we filed yesterday.
Included in the 2013 results are after tax charges of $333 million or $0.38 per share for increased cost of the Kemper project and $16 million or $0.02 per share for the restructuring of a leveraged lease investment.
Excluding these items we earned $0.66 per share in the first quarter of 2014 compared to $0.49 per share in the first quarter of 2013 an increase of $0.17 per share.
The major factors which influenced our year-over-year adjusted earnings were weather economic growth and retail revenue effects at our traditional operating companies.
A detailed summary of the earnings drivers can be found in our slide deck for this call.
Weather in the first quarter of 2014 compared with the first quarter of 2013 added $0.08 per share to our earnings.
Weather was $0.07 above normal for the first quarter of 2014 compared with $0.01 below normal for the first quarter of 2013.
Average temperatures were almost 5 degrees below normal and as a result we saw the second highest number of heating degree days in 20 years.
Total weather normal retail sales for the first quarter of 2014 increased 1.3% compared with the first quarter of 2013.
Our original forecast was based on a GDP growth estimate of between 2.5% and 2.7%.
While it’s still early in the year it appears as though GDP growth estimates could actually be between 2.7% and 3%.
Weather normal residential sales increased 1.2% over the first quarter of 2013.
Residential sales were positively affected in almost equal parts by an increase in usage reflecting demand growth beyond the amount avoided through energy efficiency and the addition of 10 000 new customers in the first quarter of 2014.
The first quarter industrial sales increased 2.8% compared with the first quarter of 2013 continuing the strong performance and momentum seen for 10 straight months.
Manufacturing employment growth in our service territories exceeded the national pace in a first quarter that featured growth that was very broad-based.
Some specific examples of segments that performed particularly well were primary metals and transportation which grew at 6.4% and 6% respectively.
In addition housing related segments including stone clay and glass textiles and lumber as group grew approximately 6% year-over-year.
This positive momentum was also evident at the port of Savannah where container exports increased 8.1% over the first quarter of 2013.
Finally one of the best leading indicators is economic development activity.
The pipeline remains robust with 340 potential projects that could deliver 30 000 more jobs and generate more than $11 billion in additional capital investment.
This reflects a 58% increase in projects a 46% increase in potential jobs and a 107% increase in potential capital investment compared with the same period last year.
This potential is on top of a very strong quarter of announcements which are expected to create an additional 3 000 additional jobs and represents $4.5 billion in new capital investment.
Before turning the call back over to Tom I’d like to share two additional items.
First as we have shared many times over the years Southern Company is committed to maintaining a high degree of financial integrity including our single A credit rating.
This commitment has served our customers and shareholders well by providing low cost financing and beneficial access to the capital markets.
Our plan to issue equity which included a total of $1.3 billion of new equity over the 2013 and 2014 time frame contemplated additional risks for the Kemper project.
As a result and based on all of our current assumptions we do not anticipate the need to increase our equity issuances due to the new charges reflected in our earnings results.
We continuously monitor our capital structure and relevant credit metrics.
As conditions change whether it is unexpected cost or better than expected success in acquiring new project at Southern Power.
We will reforecast our equity needs as necessary.
Finally I'd like to share with you our earnings per share estimate for the second quarter of 2014 which is $0.66 per share.
I'll now turn the call back over to Tom for his closing remarks.
Thank you Art.
Earlier this month our Board of Directors voted to increase Southern Company’s common dividend to an annualize rate of $2.10 per share an increase of approximately 3.5%.
This marks the 13th consecutive year that our dividend is increased.
In fact since 2002 our dividend has increased a total of 57%.
This track record is a direct reflection of the strength of our business model and the region our company serves.
We have the privileged of serving 4.4 million customers in a region with an improving economy and a stable constructive regulatory environment.
Our value proposition is bolstered by our ability to deliver industry leading customer satisfaction lower electricity prices and the highest level of reliability.
In fact the success of our customer focused strategy and how well this positioned the company to earned top quartile returns and generate strong operating cash flow over the long-term is the underpinning of our Board’s dividend action.
Despite our challenges with the Kemper project.
Our performance during the first quarter is a direct results of the sustaining successes we produced elsewhere in our business during 2013.
We will continue our focus on providing clean safe reliable and affordable energy to customers and the communities we serve which supports our value proposition objectives for investors.
We are now ready to take your questions.
So operator we'll now take the first question.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey Greg.
Good afternoon guys.
How are you?  Super.
Hope you are well.
Thank you I am.
So in reading through your 8-K on Kemper there was also a section where you discussed because of the decision to delay to start up to May 15th a reduction in bonus depreciation.
So in order for you guys to not have to sort of pin that on the shareholder what now has to happen on the regulatory front? Yes Greg it's Art.
As a number of things that could happen.
That is not part of any of the write-off amount that we have included in the numbers today.
We are in the process of working with regulators in Mississippi to reach what we think will be a global settlement of prudents and issues related to our seven year rate plan.
Now with the loss of bonus depreciation we will certainly have to rework the seven year rate plan assuming that that bonus depreciation is lost and we will come back and address that in a minute in order to make sure that we don’t violate tax modernization rules.
So that’s an absolute requirement.
Now when we think about bonus depreciation there is a couple of item avenues here; one could be that we get an extended bill coming out of congress that extends bonus depreciation in the ‘15 so that would take care of it on its own.
Secondly there could be issues in our global settlement whereby we mitigate the impact on customers.
So all of these things are in kind of a settlement stage with the commission as we address how we will help that through the regulatory process.
One other point we anticipate.
You know that we produce electricity during I think in January made about a $1 million in revenue at the combined cycle.
We expect that to go into dispatch this summer and go into service as that goes into service that eliminates a flood of the bonus depreciation at [rents].
Combine cycles are running off our natural gas plant (inaudible) rate in the plan now? Right.
Got it.
One more question on the negative side and then a positive one.
So on the Vogtle we haven’t heard much on sort of the trending what’s going on and important investor with regard to your case against CBI more we heard any progress publically on the potential settlement can you give us an update on where that stands and whether or not the costs all things equal notwithstanding the overrun that you're dealing with there have been staying pretty steady and on track? Yes Greg I'm not sure there is going to be much of a substantive update it would be roughly the same we've been telling you.
Essentially we have venue in Augusta we have I think askings by both the Consortium and us with respect to the dispute.
I think the issue resides more clearly within the Consortium right now they have issues to work out among and between themselves that's Toshiba Westinghouse and Shaw.
But we have constructive conversation with those folks all the time.
In fact I want to say next week Philip Asherman the CEO of Chicago Bridge and Iron I think the Head of Westinghouse representatives from Toshiba Georgia Power Management Southern Company Management we are all meeting at Plant Vogtle.
We do that regularly just a kind of cut through any of the issue in order to continue to advance project as well as it has been.
So I guess the point is we continue to have a very good relationship and I think we have said before it's much better now when Shaw is out and Chicago Bridge and Iron is in.
We'll see it could happen quickly or it could happen late.
Great.
And my final question is I'm noticing and it's not just you guys but we're on the front-end of earnings but there's been a handful of companies where their weather-normal sales growth numbers in the first quarter tracked ahead of the baseline expectation for the full year.
Are we seeing just a little bit more of a bounce in the economy than you had modeled because you wanted to be conservative or is there some friction in your weather normalization model when you have really extreme moves in weather that was the explanation one or the other managements gave they are not sure that they are getting an accurate weather normal reading because it was such a big such a strong weather quarter.
So is it we are definitively trending better or is that we won’t really know till we get a few more quarters ahead? Yes Greg it is Art.
And I have always said that weather normalization is more of an art than the science.
But when we look at industrial sales industrial sales are largely not weather normalized.
So when we have a 2.8% increase in industrial sales that’s a very good strong indicator.
And as we have talked about in our remarks earlier that’s the 10th month in a row we’ve had year-over-year growth in our industrial sales.
So that is not impacted by what you brought up.
Now on the residential side we could be seeing a little bit of that but it is only one quarter growth we did have a 0.5% growth in the fourth quarter.
So if it’s not 1.3 I don’t think it’s a whole lot less than that due to the fact that we have got extreme cold temperature.
And my position with the fed the fed was more bullish than we were as we developed our annual guidance and just as of the first quarter here again one quarter does not a year tail but it does indicate that kind of economic the macroeconomic effects or more closely 2.7 to 3 in terms of GDP than they were our 2.5 to 2.7.
So we’ll see if it’s a good start.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Yes sir.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Jim von Riesemann with CRT Capital.
Please proceed.
Hey Tom hey Art how are you? Hey Jim.
Good.
Hey I am confused and don’t comment on that.
So your second quarter last year was $0.66 and you’re guiding to $0.66 for the second quarter this year.
What might be some of the big mechanics that would at least under that condition would put you at the high-end of your $2.72 to $2.80 guidance range for 2014? Yes good question Jim.
When you look at non-fuel O&amp;M and I think we outlined this on our last call we estimated we’re going to spend roughly $300 million more at least in our regulated core business than we did in 2013.
And if you look at our spending in the first quarter it was only up year-over-year about 1.3%.
So we’ve got some heavier lift to do on the expense side for the remainder of the year and when you look at our outage schedule it is somewhat back-end loaded as well.
There are few other elements at least in the quarter-over-quarter numbers that you need to remember.
Alabama Power had entered into an accounting order that allowed them to differ some non-nuclear outage cost this year which will make their non-fuel O&amp;M look a little lower year-over-year and that’s a big influence on the first quarter non-fuel O&amp;M numbers.
But when you look at the O&amp;M that we’re going to add this year at least in the second quarter along with new rates and you don’t take normal weather you’re seeing about the flattish kind of equation there.
Jim Art and I talked about this stuff all the time.
It’s not -- don’t be ashamed to be confused we have the same questions here.
But I think it really does go to our pattern of O&amp;M being roughly flat for the first quarter that presumed you’re going to spend a lot more in the rest of the year.
So I think that really kind of does go there.
Okay.
But I’m glad the same way and I’m still confused on Kemper County now if you don’t mind me changing topics.
So I just need to be -- my memory needs to be refreshed.
So if the gasifier goes into service let’s just call September 1st.
How do the mechanics work under all that if you’re a customer of Mississippi Power who benefits?  The economic to Mississippi’s customers are relatively fixed.
In other words there is $2.4 billion that they accrue; they had a full mix of capital up to 288.
It’s the (inaudible).
Jim you said gasifier did you mean the combustion turbines? I’m sorry.
Yes I did say gasifier I apologize.
No I’m okay.
Combustion turbines; I'm sorry.
That's my mistake.
No no problem.
Well I mean a lot of how that might work is tied up in this global settlement as well.
There is a host of issues; in fact there was some language in the recent continuance of discussions which indicated that there is some conversation going on between the company and the staff.
So I would like look for all of that to be kind of handled as much as it could in that settlement.
Any idea on the timing when that might happen?  Not really but look forward in the months ahead here.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yes sir.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Hey good afternoon.
Hey Dan.
How are you doing? I am doing great thank you.
You guys when you kind of talked about the growth rate update last quarter and you pointed to the back-end of this decade the reacceleration environmental CapEx part of that being coal ash some other things.
We’ve seen some other folks in the region have some issues around coal ash.
I wonder if you could just kind of walk through maybe in a little more detailed spending that you guys have there and kind of how that paces out with more scrutiny.
Does that change the timeline for when you guys may start spending that money? I am going to turn this over to Art in a second but if I think you kind of globally look at it here we kind of have $6 billion of future environmental compliance investments that will manifest themselves at the end of the decade.
Certainly coal ash is part of that certainly affluent guideline certainly 316(b).
There are a lot of moving parts there and the number can move pretty dramatically both in terms of the quantum again our estimated $6 billion as well as the timing.
And it would not surprise us but that these other issues could have some bearing hands to the ultimate resolution for a company like us.
We are following it very closely and we will see.
Okay.
And I guess on the Casper decision where it is right now is that going to have any effect on near-term spending or is the mass obligations pretty well covered for you guys? Dan the mass contemplates most of that I think when the original Casper was passed it was prior to the development or finalization the (inaudible) so since they both directed it SO2 and NOx most of that will be addressed through SCRs through scrubbers or to whatever other compliance equipment we may have added to the unit.
There maybe some small change dispatch of some of the units the smaller coal units that are further back in the stack and won’t operate a lot.
And so the only real impact made the fuel cost on an extreme depth.
Yes.
It is much more a dispatch energy issue than a capital issue for us.
The math already spoke to the capital.
Okay.
So one more on coal we've heard a few people talking about little more concern about coal inventories for the summer after the cold winter having to run the coal fleet hard.
Where do you guys sit on your coal inventories in how is that they’re going to get captured if you have to start buying more actively in the open market to the fuel mechanisms? It's fascinating we made a big play in the past we talked a lot about 70% coal six years ago 16% gas now.
What we said before was 45% gas 35% coal.
Fascinating average gas prices during the first quarter of ‘14 were 5 bucks in round numbers.
First quarter ‘13 they were $350 so you are up almost 50% in gas prices with coal prices being relatively constant.
So what that’s done is we’ve been able to shift our dispatch around to save our customers about a $100 million.
So we’re marginally more on coal and gas is what we saw in the first quarter kind of 42 coal 38 gas.
It's fascinating to kind of think about how that may roll out for the rest of the year.
Dan when you think about our inventories we are very close to the targets we've set for ourselves this year.
We are building up coal supply to meet the summer peak demands.
And that will basically runs our average target to up to 35 from 35 45 days.
So we are just in the process right now of rebuilding after we increased our burns quite a bit of first quarter above what we thought it would be.
And that moves around a lot from plant to plant obviously if we have plants like the branch unit that we’re planning to close a little bit later you will treat those a little bit differently than you will kind of ball win or a share or a (inaudible).
Got it.
Thank you guys.
Yes sir thank you.
And our next question comes from line of Steve Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
Please proceed.
Hey Steve.
Hey Tom just a follow-up on that last question.
Would you is it fair to characterize that you are running gas more maybe in the shorter months so that you can rebuilt the coal piles or is it just you’re just running dispatchers normally word and you just bring him more coal in? Yes we're in great shape we are running normal.
Okay.
Just maybe if you could spend a little more time you mentioned that you’re starting to work on settlement and Mississippi of various issues.
Could you disclose or remind us what the issues are is it both the good indication that you got that you trying to kind of wrap altogether? And timelines and how much your are people cut on board together is there going to be a lot opposition likelihood that you able to get a settlement? Well we think there is an opportunity for both the regulators and the companies to come out with some kind of agreement here.
The 7 year rate plan was designed to recover cost and keep rates at the set level that we agreed to in January of ‘13 and that was a 15% increase in rates last year followed on by 3% rate increase this year both of which are in place.
So as these numbers move around as our in service state moves around we’re going to have to amend that to make sure that we comply with tax normalization rules as I mentioned.
So that’s one element.
And there are some other pieces of the pie that we might be able to include in the ground settlement that will keep customers [on those] in this agreement.
But it’s mostly focused around those two very issues 7 year rate plan and the prudency issue.
We would like to get those solved on a simultaneous basis.
And I guess just roll into that the in service of the combined cycle.
We fully expect those to run.
They’re actually attractive and we’ve actually had some interest in the wholesale markets for those things.
All this could be round up together we think in a beneficial discussion.
And just timing of this and…? It’s always hard to predict those things.
We’ve got the continuance order.
Let that play out and let events take their course.
Okay.
And then separately on Vogtle I might have missed this in your presentation but is there any updates on the schedule for the Vogtle units and if not when will we get the next schedule update? As we filed in our VCM 9 and 10 we reiterated our plan to leave the schedule in place CLD dates for Unit 3 fourth quarter of ‘17 Unit 4 fourth quarter of ‘18.
And we did not change the amount that we are contemplating in terms of overnight costs at the same time.
And if you just go back Steve to the VCM 8 filings that is our most recent schedule.
Now of course we always continue to move things around within but that’s it.
And I would argue that probably Unit 4 is actually probably a little bit ahead.
So we feel very good about our schedule right now.
Okay.
And just timing commentary from SCANA which obviously different units.
But can you talk about having kind of a new schedule from the E&amp;C guys in the fall to layout? Is that a time line that’s relevant for you at all are you just on a separate track? It's interesting.
I mean we try to work together to coordinate that practices and share information and a variety of other things.
But it is very clear that we have a different contract.
And without commenting on their situation I can tell you that our contract as we suggested in the past is essentially fixed with performance schedules that are also fixed.
So I wouldn't spend a lot of time comparing say for example CA20 for us and CA20 for them.
Okay.
You will have -- they are operating under a different regime than we are.
Okay that's helpful.
Thanks Tom.
Yes sir.
And your next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Hey Michael.
Hey Mike.
Hey guys.
Can you hear me?  Yes.
Okay thank you.
Sorry having a little phone issue.
Couple of questions if I look at your fourth quarter 2013 slide deck and went back to the appendix just at the CapEx by subsidiary can you just walk us through -- and a lot of this is Kemper driven but a little of it may also be Southern Power driven.
Just what’s different from the CapEx you laid out for 2014 through ‘16 back on slide 25 of your fourth quarter deck versus what it is today when you look forward for the next couple of years? Well Kemper will change a bit as we push more dollars into ‘15 now.
And when I think about all the other companies nothing has really changed that I’m aware of.
Our plan for Southern Power remains some of that is capital for maintenance and other capital for our expansion point.
So when I think broadly about that Michael I just can’t see a lot of change that is occurred since that day.
Okay.
And so what’s the -- I just want to make sure I am getting Kemper right.
What’s the remaining amount of CapEx at Kemper for 2014 meaning second quarter through the end of the year and then is the amount -- is that $25 million a month number for 2015 kind of still the good number so four or five months into 2015? Yes.
If you look at it we got about $925 million remaining; about 800 of that in ‘14 and the remainder the 125 would be five months in 2015.
That’s the 25 a month.
And maintenance CapEx is a little bit $100 million $150 million so that will get total Mississippi Power? That is correct.
Okay.
On nuclear construction question just curious is there any insight or any update you can provide from the folks in China who are couple of years ahead of us in the process in terms of building new nuclear plants? Just any updates on kind of the construction timeline for either Sandman or the other units that are coming on line there that are using AP1000? Sandman and [Haiyang] you know that we have people that live there.
And other various members of our team go there from time to time.
It's interesting to think about how that's helped us.
Some of it -- I would argue the very first benefit that we've seen out of all them going first and our people on-site have been supply chain related.
I would argue also the way that some of the material was handled on site once it is fabricated has been helpful for us.
We've had better performance than they have.
There are some significant differences particularly in the late end construction where when you think about for example module you think about how these things are racked they tend to be much more people intensive than we are.
Our processes tend to be much more automated.
The other thing that we find is where they have a specific problem can we learn from it? Well I'll tell you one the way some of the panels were erected they erected them horizontally.
When they were picked up they deformed a little bit and they had to worry about correcting that.
What we learned was to erect to them vertically so we didn't have that kind of deformation.
The other thing is just kind of issues that relate to the engineering around some pieces of equipment I know one issue has been reactor coolant pump.
I know one that’s in service in China we have that equipment it will be resolved to our satisfaction well in advanced of any critical path.
Got it.
Okay guys thank you very much and appreciate the update.
Yes sir.
Thank you for calling in.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Please proceed.
Hey Paul.
Good afternoon.
How are you?  Super.
Hope you are well.
Thank you.
You’ve mentioned some little room in your equity forecast I mean is there continued pressures at Kemper is there still contingency built in there?  We are probably on the cost if we have additional cost then we may need it depends on any other offsetting issues either in CapEx or that might affect our equity needs but we’ll keep an eye on that over time and certainly advise you of any needs we may have.
Again our target Paul is 44% equity ratio and right now we're solid in that range.
As I administered you didn’t address annual guidance on the call?  We almost never do that what we do is we do annual guidance twice a year we do it once in January that sums up kind of where we believe we will be for the year and then as been our practice really since I was CFO so we're dialing back eight years or so now.
We only do a revision annual guidance once we get through the third quarter so it’s typically our October phone call.
What we provide is just quarterly estimates beyond that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yes sir.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from line of Anthony Crowdell with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon guys.
Hi Anthony.
Just following up on Paul's question I think the guidance for equity in '13 and '14 was roughly about $1.3 billion.
How much of that has been issued already?  In the first quarter we issued right at the $140 million so we’re on track for our $600 million number this year.
And I guess lastly when you think of Kemper and you guys have quantified maybe 2015 roughly $25 million a month I guess over budget or incremental charges what do you think is the biggest risk on cost overruns there? I mean it seems like there’s been a labor issue last quarter you spoke about and also this quarter what’s the biggest issue I guess with or sensitivity with higher cost at Kemper? So I think it remains we’ve been very confident on that.
When you transition away from construction to start up that’s kind of the lion share of risk ahead of us now.
The integration of the different systems of Kemper it’s a very complex animal in a combined cycle unit you may have three systems that need integration.
Recall this one is coal gasification it is gas handling equipment and all those related things it’s about 13 different systems.
I mean I’d like to think of it like fine tuning a 6 cylinder car versus a 12 cylinder car.
So just getting the integration of the various systems through start up is the biggest issue.
Beyond that it is I think the unknown unknown there is always something that could happen and nobody can contemplate.
We I think are allowing for normal disruptions through start-up you have those anyway it’s something that nobody has foreseen we’ll see.
When we rethought this schedule I can tell you we did a lot of soul-searching about it.
You know from following us that we're a conservative company we always try and take a long view.
And I think it is absolutely the right thing to do in our judgment to adjust this schedule.
Because even though it produces some near-term pain this is absolutely the long-term trajectory that represents best interest for our customer.
And it’s so important that we get it right at the outset.
So that's what you see us doing here.
Just lastly like a really weird question more like to your point unknown unknown it seems like the conventional part of the Kemper unit or Kemper plant CCGT whatever is working fine you’ve produced electric first quarter.
Are there any changes to that seven-year rate plan you guys entered into back in January of '13 if the gasifier just for some reason just doesn’t really reach commercial operation as intended? There is nothing in the seven year rate plan that is contemplated around that.
But I will remind you Anthony that we have a lot of experience with our pilot project.
Whereby we have overtime protected the operation of the gasifier.
So our confident in the gasifier and having problems with it is not high on the list.
But as Tom mentioned we have the gas clean up island so we’ve got to be able to continually integrate the gasifier the clean up island and collection of the bio product and delivery of the reliable syngas in order to make sure that this plant operates as intend.
And as know we talk about this in the past where we made mistakes I think on this project was entering into a fixed price commitment back like 2009 or so with only 10% of the engineering and I think where we did the feed studies and all we were very good in terms of what combined cycle allowance is going to cost and how the gasifier where we got bit was in the gas handling systems remember as we ramped up or carbon capture profile quantity and the type the quality and the type hangers and all the related equipment it’s going to be that we had a lack of experience.
The good news is we do have expenses to gasifier we have the combine cycles already working.
We know that the gas management system exists elsewhere so my sense is all these component will work that’s my judgment integrating them and optimizing them and time tuning them is going to be the challenge.
Great thanks for the color guys.
I really appreciated.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Barnett with Morningstar Equity Research.
Please proceed.
Hey Mark.
Hey good afternoon guys how are you? Great.
You talked a lot about Kemper and Vogtle.
Can I just ask a couple quick questions around Southern Power to round it out? You mentioned you might have something coming down the pipe pretty soon here in terms of another solar project.
Assuming that that is the case would that largely speak for the placeholder that you have in your CapEx guidance for the optional Southern Power projects for the year?  Yes we had outlined Mark about I think it was a 100 megawatts expansion in 2014 and roughly what we’re talking about is somewhere near half of that that with we've got other projects that we’ve got on our list as well.
So we feel very good about our plan our expansion plan for this year and for next.
Yes every Board meeting or update the finance committee with essentially a red yellow green list of potential projects.
Looking at the health of those development activities we have a lot of confidence on Southern Power's ability to execute this year.
Great.
And just one nitpicky detail on the quarterly results for Southern Power despite the topline growth you had some lower profitability on the operating line I'm just curious is that sort of a one-time thing or was there anything in particular that was driving that? We had some solar contracts who are (inaudible) some energy margins I guess from the contracts with solar plants that were in service say midyear last year mid to late last year that quarter-over-quarter increased revenues.
But we also had a onetime tax issue that occurred that was really a big help too.
And had we not have the onetime tax issue we may have been at or just below the -- our target for the quarter.
Okay makes a lot of sense.
Thanks for that.
Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Hey good afternoon to you.
Thank you.
Tom when do you think you're in a position on Kemper to really lock down these costs? And tell us look this is it and I think we don’t expect any more overruns.
Hey Ali I would say could have done that a year ago every time that we have given you an estimate it has been our best judgment.
When things happen that we can’t foresee we have to adjustments I hate that but that isn’t fact the case every time we’ve given an estimate it has been our best judgment at the time.
But is there anything in this remaining months to a year for completion where once you cross that line you can say okay it's pretty much done or will it go all the way to the end? Well I mean except for the unknown unknowns right I mean so what happens if I mean having forbid there is a tornado that comes across the side or what happen if there is a major hurricane or what happens if as we integrate the system and just more complex there is we are not able to track it effectively or something everything I know right now I have great confidence in our ability to execute we really fought a lot with each other over this latest adjustment we would still effort our best to get this done in ‘14 but I think given the bawl wave of uncertainty that we were creating by the delay in productivity on the construction as a result of polar vortex one two and some of the other issues it just seem to us to be a conservative prudent judgment to push the schedule out to make or I wish I could give you certainty that’s not the nature of the base when you built something like this.
Right also… Hi this is Art.
Couple additional elements there and I think we’ve kind of mentioned them already that you’ve got milestones at there the first gets fire heat up.
We get by that we’re producing syngas and then beyond that is making sure that the gasoline of island is doing its job and that we get reliable syngas that we can burn in our combined cycle.
So as we move through those elements.
Those are elements of milestones that we’ve set for ourselves that will tell the tail you about where we identify issues.
Enough.
Separately Tom I think in the past you have told us for planning purposes for next three years or so we should assume relatively flat earnings profile for 7 power if I recall correctly anything change on that front as you’re looking at opportunities today versus few months ago? So not a significant change but we continue to kick over every stone we can we mentioned before that we’re looking in some other regions of the United States in order to identify opportunities.
It will be fun to see how the nation’s so called organized market develop this year and next.
My sense is when you look around the different regions of the United States particularly in the so called organized markets where you see coal plant shutdowns there maybe needs for more capital investment.
I think our model long-term bilaterals creditworthy counterparties no fuel risk no transmission risk is the kind of economic commercial model that will support the kind of CapEx that needs to be brought there to those markets.
My sense is particularly with our focus on coal ops in municipal utilities we have some potential to do more than we think we can do.
And I can assure you that I guess we had Southern Power two weeks ago I can assure you that we give them a high goal every time we can.
The other thing that could have some play in that you maybe aware that Georgia Power then I guess second its phase their advanced solar initiative they had one I think it was 2010 that’s called ASI and this was called ASI Prime or something.
But it accounts for 525 megawatts of new solar in Georgia 425 of which is central station and 100 megawatts of which is distributed generation.
We have challenged both of our companies; Southern Power and Georgia Power Wholesale separate from Southern Power to compete in those businesses especially with distributed generation around the United States a lot of people have taken the posture kind of sliding it.
Our view is let’s do it right let’s create the right pricing mechanism for the energy and capacity let’s create the right pricing mechanism one that is fair to all customers for connection to the network and let’s create the right mechanism for back-up generation.
Having done that if customers want it my view is we should provide it.
And so I’ve directed folks inside Southern and in fact we’re competing with ourselves to play off into that environment.
I’m looking forward to seeing how those bids turn out that’s another potential source of growth for us.
Got it.
Last question Tom you’ve also indicated to us in the past as you look at your earnings profile being more back-end loaded in terms of growth you would have looking at opportunities to fill that gap if you found them out there.
Today are you seeing those opportunities I mean we saw “opportunistic transaction” that was announced this morning.
Are you seeing opportunities out there for yourselves? Was that an M&amp;A question? Well I think the way you had posted to us yes; I’m presuming it’s M&amp;A.
Okay.
So with us we do asset acquisitions all the time I mean that’s one of our ways.
If you’re talking about corporate M&amp;A it was interesting I was -- we were listening to the different shows this morning; CNBC and Bloomberg and all that.
A bullish thing on the economy is how much M&amp;A is going on and in fact there seems to be a pretty good bid of it Exelon and Pepco the latest example in our industry.
I’ve bid on record for this and I bet you guys on the call to give this speech as well as I can.
But this is something that we have a fiduciary obligation always to evaluate we are always kind of we have a group of people who competitive and intelligence group here focusing on those deals.
My sense is now as it has been forever that those deals are extraordinarily difficult to do particularly in a regulated environment where for the amount of premium that you will spend in order to acquire the target you are going to have to earn a return on and return out capital.
That from an EVA standpoint is positive for shareholders.
Add to that regulatory complexity and a variety of other things those are just hard to do.
We work hard to try and make sense of them.
But I can tell you it’s just really hard and I wouldn’t particularly count on them right now.
Thank you.
Yes sir.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Kit Konolige with BGC.
Please proceed.
Hello Kit.
Good afternoon guys.
Hi Kit.
So just to revisit the Mississippi settlement talk one last time can I ask who initiated the talks and what were the circumstances of their being settlement talks in the first place? Yes Kit I believe the commission in and around the prudency hearing had pushed the dates of the hearing along with the staff we’re able to push those hearings out into August.
And in some of their public remarks they mentioned the fact that they were looking for discussions towards some kind of agreement both on the prudency issue on the seven year right plan.
So that’s kind of where it all started from and we’re certainly a party to those as well.
Since we put the commission directed the staff to engage the company with potential settlement talks.
So we’ll see how it goes.
Right.
Okay got that.
And I mean obviously we don’t know until there is not a settlement but it sounds like you would hope that this could be a pretty comprehensive deal if you got there.
Would you envision it as kind of accounting for any future possible further overruns or delays in the time table of the Kemper? I think it’s just too early to tell Kit.
There is the prudency issue is important the seven year right plan is pretty important.
But there could be other elements to the agreement as well.
The in service treatment of the combined cycle unit going forward.
Yes.
And there is a host of things how you would [wait] together with [path] is important.
So we’ll try and get as comprehensive as we can.
Okay.
One last thing so I kind of understand this.
So obviously given your prior agreement there can’t be any further rate increases for customers as a result of this.
Are we looking at potentially some change in the pattern of future rate increases? In other words from a financial point of view for shareholders what could change as a result of a settlement here? Yes.
Kit I’m a little reluctant to kind of dive into profiles and what is let the talks happen and let’s give a good results for everybody here.
Okay.
Sounds fair to me.
Thank you.
Thank you Kit.
Thank you Kit.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Please proceed.
Hey Julien.
Hey good afternoon.
Hey good afternoon to you.
Excellent.
So quick question here just following-up a little bit on the same wane of thought.
Can you walk through how you think about the in service criteria for Kemper regime and how that process works in Mississippi? I know you talk about a settlement here but I suppose that’s technically a separate process that we're going to be going through down the line.
And then also perhaps a little bit of the key dates as far as that goes particularly I’m thinking in contrast to some of the performance issues we’ve seen elsewhere.
Yes look in service has some [concentration] both for tax and for regulatory purposes.
For tax purposes it’s essentially that you are integrated into the grid and you can demonstrate.
We’ve already demonstrated we can run Tampa to help during peak periods; we did that during Vogtle.
And it’s fun to actually have a live shot of the construction sites to both Vogtle and Kemper in my office and it’s fun to see the cooling towers at Kemper blowing off steam showing that they’re generating electricity.
We expect them to be fully integrated this summer.
By the same token when we think about the gasifier island and everything else I think the standard will kind of go to a reliable supply of same gas to the combined cycle units.
Those will be kind of the standards we’ll be looking for.
And so that basically that’s down the line here after May 15 to sort of… Again the combined cycle as we expect the in services summer declared in service both for tax and books.
And for the gasifier and gas cleanup system it will come probably later.
Okay excellent.
And then kind of going back to the equity question sorry to have this one more time.
If you don’t end up getting either those two options with regards to making up the bonus D&amp;A benefits does that push you through the contingency you put in there or did that your comment before contemplate that as well? It contemplated that as well.
Got you.
And then could you quantify how much contingency left or you don’t do that? We’re pretty close to the edge so but again it’s a function of more than just Kemper there is lots of other CapEx that we spend.
And so it would also impact how we’re doing in that regard as well.
I know you guys have spoken about just the last subject here on coal ash.
Obviously some adjacent states are kind of picking up the speed of reform on that.
What are you seeing right now on your front as far as the need to spend and address both from a capital and expense perspective?  We've had a very constructive relationship with all of our environmental regulators.
In all of our states we meet or exceed all of the environmental regulations that are currently in place.
We are watching with interest what happened elsewhere and what impact that may have.
It was funny it was notable background the Kingston of that.
I remember I would see a [relative time] and I can recall walking myself virtually every ash con we had.
And we have this long track record of exceedingly safe reliable operation of facilities.
The personal there were just surprised to see anybody was interested in how those were being run.
I think with the events at Duke there will be more evaluation of our practice and closure practices and all sorts of things.
I think this is something that is probably inevitable.
The question to me to what degree and over what time frame.
Great excellent.
Thank you all very much.
Thank you.
I appreciate you joining us.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan with Visium.
Please proceed.
Hello Ashar.
Hi.
How are you doing Tom? Great.
Tom I was trying to understand just trying to look through and I don't know if Art can help me on this.
One thing which took a little people by surprise was when you came up with guidance in the January presentation you started off with 2.71 and then you subtracted $0.07 which was from dilution from the Kemper write-off 2014 and beyond.
And you reset the base to $2.64.
And then from there of course the growth came in for this year's EPS impact.
With these write-offs additional write-offs which have come in since the beginning of the year should we then be modeling the similar kind of course they are not to the extent that they happened last year but should I be modeling something like for when you come out next year and all that a slight decremented gain in the base EPS when if you were to go ahead and redo your EPS for next year from this dilution impact from the write-offs and things like that just wanted to get a little bit better understanding.
Yeah so pretty said lot here and we think is no because we don’t think we will require any new equity and therefore there is a not a diluted impact we will be able to manage this we think.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
We appreciate you join us.
And I am showing no further questions.
Well listen.
Thank you all for joining us today.
I know it’s a busy day for everybody.
A lot of exciting things going on.
I am really gratified I don’t like the fact that we had to write-off on Kemper again and change the schedule.
But I am gratified with the sustaining excellence of the company when you think about all the good work we had I know we talk about that a lot last year we really accomplish a whole lot in 2013 and I think our first quarter in ‘14 is a demonstration of that benefit.
We thank you for joining us today.
We thank you for follow Southern Company.
We look forward to chatting with you further.
Take care.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.
Good afternoon.
My name is Tommy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome to everyone to the Southern Company’s Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remark there will be question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) And also as a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dan Tucker Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Planning.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Tommy.
Welcome everyone to Southern Company’s second quarter 2014 earnings call.
Joining me this afternoon are Tom Fanning Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Company; and Art Beattie Chief Financial Officer.
Let me remind you that we will make forward-looking statements today in addition to providing historical information.
Various important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements including those discussed in our Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
In addition we will present non-GAAP financial information on this call.
Reconciliations to the applicable GAAP measure are included in the financial information we released this morning as well as the slides of this conference call.
To follow along during the call you can access these slides on our Investor Relations website at www.southerncompany.com.
At this time I’ll turn the call over to Tom Fanning.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
As you know 2013 was one of our busiest ever from a regulatory standpoint.
The constructive results our traditional operating companies achieved has our company well-positioned to execute our plan to continue delivering on our core commitment to provide clean safe reliable and affordable energy to customers and communities that we are privileged to serve.
Our second quarter results were consistent with expectation.
Weather was normal for first time in the past few quarters and the regional economies is gaining strength as anticipated.
We achieved major milestones in our two major construction projects and continue to expand our track record of solid operational performance.
In a few minutes I will provide an update on our financial results as well as our sales and economic outlook.
But first I’d like to begin with an update on the constructions activities at Plant Vogtle and Kemper County.
We continue to make impressive progress at Plant Vogtle Unit 3 and 4 as you can see from the recent aerial photo we have included in our slide deck.
Our next major milestone will be completion of the CA05 module for Unit 3 which will comprise one of the major wall sections with the containment vessel.
That module is now outside of the module assembly building and it’s projected to be installed in September.
The next key element for Unit 3 will be CA01 a large containment vessel module that will have the Unit steam generators and a series of concrete pours that will raise the structural concrete currently surrounding the containment vessel bottom-head and bring it to ground-level typically referred to as elevation 100.
This concrete will ultimately serve as the foundation for the Unit 3 shield building.
We currently have 36 of the 47 sub-modules for CA01 on-site and expect to install the completed module in late fourth quarter this year or first quarter next year.
The concrete pours to elevation 100 should be finish near year end 2014.
Meanwhile the latest Vogtle construction monitoring or VCM hearing are complete with a vote scheduled for August 19th.
During the hearing the commission independent construction monitor concur that project risk are consistent with those contemplated when the project was approved and that they are being managed well by Georgia Power.
The construction monitor also concur that -- sufficient oversight is being provided to contractors and global supply chain vendors.
It was further noted that Georgia Power has been successful in meeting requirements to secure the benefits of the DOE loan production tax credits and other option to help mitigate risk for customers.
We anticipate the filing of VCM 11 at the end of August.
I am also happy to report that Plant Ratcliffe at Kemper County had a good quarter in which Mississippi Power achieved significant construction milestones.
Pressure testing is complete on both gasifier train a significant step towards the heat up of the first gasifier which is targeted for late third quarter or early fourth quarter 2014.
We also have achieved pipe-tight status meaning that all piping more than 900 000 linear feet is installed sealed and ready for testing.
Successful combined cycle testing is winding down at Mississippi Power prepared to place this portion of the plant in service.
On the regulatory front Mississippi continues to engage constructively with the Mississippi Public Utilities Commission staff.
There are a number of issues involved that we are working are to resolve.
In the meantime we remain optimistic about the outcome of these discussions.
Elsewhere I'm pleased to report that the acquisition of the Macho Springs Solar Facility by Southern Power and Turner Renewable Energy closed during the second quarter.
This 50-megawatt facility the largest solar project in New Mexico is now in commercial operation and can generate enough electricity to power more than 18 000 homes.
Southern Power continuing to seek new solar and natural gas projects with long-term contract and creditworthy counterparties.
I will now turn over the call to Art for a financial and economic overview.
Thanks Tom.
For the second quarter of 2014 we earned $0.68 per share compared to $0.34 per share in the second quarter of 2013 an increase of $0.34 per share.
For the six months ended June 30 2014 we earned a $1.08 per share compared with $0.43 per share for the same period in 2013 an increase of $0.65 per share.
Earnings for the six months ended June 30 2014 included an after-tax charge of $235 million or $0.26 per share related to increased cost estimates for the construction of Mississippi Power's Kemper County project recorded in the first quarter of 2014.
Earnings for the three and six months ended June 2013 included after-tax charges of $278 million or $0.32 per share and $611 million or $0.70 per share respectively related to the Kemper County project.
Earnings for the first six months of 2013 also include an after-tax charge of $16 million or $0.02 per share for the restructuring of a leveraged lease investment recorded in the first quarter of 2013.
Excluding these items earnings for the second quarter of 2014 were $0.68 per share compared with $0.66 per share for the second quarter of 2013 an increase of $0.02 per share.
Earnings for the six months ended June 30 2014 excluding these items were a $1.34 per share compared with a $1.15 per share for the same period in 2013 an increase of $0.19 per share.
A primary driver for our 2014 second quarter results was more normal weather compared to the same period in 2013 resulting in an increase of $0.03 per share on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
Second quarter 2014 earnings also benefited from increased industrial sales and retail revenue effects at our traditional operating company earnings were offset somewhat by increases in non-fuel O&amp;M expense.
A more detailed summary of our quarter-over-quarter drivers is included in the slide deck.
Economic activity in our region continues to be led by the industrial sector as evidenced by our 13 consecutive months of year-over-year industrial sales growth.
This growth is consistent with national trend such as the ISM Manufacturing Index which has remained above 50 signaling expansion for the past 13 months.
In our region we continue to see exports play a big role.
In the second quarter of 2014 exports from Alabama and Georgia grew at 4.1% almost twice the rate of the U.S.
as a whole.
Container exports from the Port of Savannah grew 6.3% in the second quarter of 2014 compared to 2.5% for all of 2013.
This growth has been broad-based across all of our traditional operating companies and across all of our top 10 industrial segments.
As an additional point of interest 90% of our major customers say that they expect their sales for the second half of 2014 to be either the same or better than the first half of 2014.
In the housing margin we continue to see signs of a slow recovery.
The most recent Atlanta Federal Reserve survey of brokers and builders indicates that home sales are up from last year.
Inventory levels continue to fall and prices continue to increase albeit modestly.
Overall builders and brokers expect activity in the Southeast to continue to increase.
These trends are consistent with our internal measure of new housing activity new connects which were up 17% in the first six months of 2014 compared to the same period last year with positive growth across all of our traditional operating company.
These findings which are consistent with our expectations for the period were underscored at the most recent meeting of our economic roundtable earlier this month.
As a reminder this is a group of regional economist and executives from a handful of our largest customers.
Overall the economic roundtable affirmed our view that of the continuing momentum behind the industrial sector and the continued recovery of the residential sector.
The group's consensus is that GDP during the first quarter of 2014 was not consistent with employment or industrial production trends and that quarter-over-quarter GDP growth of 3% can be expected for the remainder of this year.
Several of the economist on the roundtable noted that income growth continues to be weak and will likely remain so until underemployed workers are absorbed.
This weakness in income growth is reflected in Southern Company's continued weakness in use per customer growth as well as a signs of continued discipline on consumer spending patterns.
All of this data is reflected in Southern Company’s sales results industrial sales were up 3% in the second quarter of 2004 compared with the second quarter of 2013 with all 10 of our top sectors demonstrating growth.
For example chemicals were up 5% paper was up 6% and transportation was up 7%.
As a group the housing related segments of textiles stone clay and glass and lumber were all up 3%.
Meanwhile weather normal residential sales were down 0.6% and weather normal commercial sales were flat in the second quarter of 2014 compared to the second quarter of 2013.
Looking forward we continue to see this ongoing recovery reflected in strong economic development activity.
One example of this is the Elba Island LNG Terminal where a joint partnership of Shell Oil and Southern LNG a Kinder Morgan Company is adding natural gas export capability at its existing facility in Savannah.
Once fully operational the associated electrical load increase will be 180-megawatt making it one of the largest customers in our service territory.
Meanwhile in Alabama we continue to see growth among Tier 1 and Tier 2 auto suppliers for assembly plants we serve as well as inquiries for suppliers that will serve the future Airbus assembly facility.
Our economic development pipeline remains robust.
We are currently tracking some 330 prospective projects representing 37 000 new jobs and $14 billion in capital expenditures.
From this pipeline more than 8 000 jobs were announced during the second quarter of 2014 a 23% increase over the same period in 2013 with the potential for $1.3 billion in capital expenditures.
Now I'd like to share our earnings estimate for the third quarter of 2014 which will be $1.06 per share.
I'll now turn the call back over to Tom for his closing remarks.
Thanks Art.
As I've said many times before Southern Company values the opportunity to engage constructively at all levels of government for the benefit of the customers we serve.
This week we had another such opportunity in the formal public hearing on the EPA proposed rule for greenhouse gas emissions at existing power plant.
Several of our company senior officers participated in the hearing yesterday and today both in the nation’s capital and here at Atlanta.
We continue to have concerns about the impact of this proposal particularly with regard to the reliability and affordability of our nation's energy supply.
We are currently reviewing the proposed rule and will submit our formal comments to the EPA in keeping with the established timeline.
Our initial review however has revealed three primary reasons why we believe the current proposed rule should be amended.
First the proposed rule significantly overreaches the EPA's authority by attempting to regulate activities that are clearly beyond the scope of the Clean Air Act and other existing legislation and that have historically been under the purview of the states.
Second the detail of the proposed standard do not appear to be workable relying upon unrealistic standard of performance and violating long standing regulatory construct.
And third and perhaps most importantly the proposal is not in the best interest of electric consumers due it potential negative impact on retail prices and system reliability.
As we have in the past we will continue to engage constructively on all fronts in this important policy debate.
We are now ready to take your questions.
So Operator we'll now take the first question.
Thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions) And we will proceed with our first question from the line of Greg Gordon from ISI Group.
Go ahead.
Hey Greg Hi.
Good afternoon guys.
I apologize if you answered any in the beginning because I was a little bit late.
I saw that things were looking up at Kemper this quarter you didn't have any further cost escalation beyond your current budget? As we get into the list of activities on the bottom right of page six at what point over the course of the year should if you are going to have further slippage should we be focus -- what are the key things we should be focused on and when will they be incurring? So yeah we actually talked about this slide getting ready for the call year around our 95% of the way through construction.
There will be tales of construction when we say construction is complete there will be tales of construction that go right into just about in service.
So saying its complete is kind of a term of our but we’re very close to kind of being there in a substantive way.
The real risk I think going forward relate to start-up and of course there are the normal issues related to start-up.
But the one think we always say to ourselves is the unknown unknown and that is there could be as we go though the start-up process potential equipment failure that we don’t contemplate or have quick inventory or quick turnaround solution for that could impact schedule.
But with respect to the risk associate with construction those are winding down pretty quickly.
The risks that largely remain in front of us are the risk that relate to start-up.
Okay.
Second question which is more of a tactical or short-term question just because we've had such a huge build in gas production natural gas production and we've had a decline in the amount of gas being burned for power gen nationwide and so natural gas prices partly because of weather obviously natural gas prices have fallen a lot? As you look at the rest of the summer how do you see your gas burn relative to what you burned last year because if I look at the very short-term data I noticed that it's gotten cooler down there over the last few days but you are still burning off a lot of gas relative to where you would be burning it where the weather was let's say a month ago or two months ago? Is there something going on where we should expect a higher gas burn for the balance of the summer or should we assume that if the weather continues to be cool that you will back down on the gas? Well so Greg I think you are all over the question right.
We do steadfast economic dispatch so whatever the cheapest energy is local provide and whatever energy resource provide the cheapest energy as what we will use.
Look a year ago when gas prices were moderately higher and you had coal prices moderately cheaper I am sorry just the opposite gas prices were cheaper we burnt a lot more natural gas than we did coal.
What we are seeing in this year is similar to what we projected and that is kind of in the 40% range for both coal and gas from an energy standpoint.
We are slightly ahead so far in ‘14 on coal relative to gas.
But I would argue with gas dropping down here recently right in the $4 range that gas will pick up a little bit.
So my sense is kind of going forward is kind of where we thought we would be in the general range of 40-40 for both coal and gas.
I can you specific number but I’m not sure the differences are meaningful.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
You bet.
Thank you.
And we will go to our next question is from the line of Dan Eggers from Credit Suisse.
Go ahead.
Hey.
Good afternoon guys.
Hey Dan.
Hey.
Tom can you just give a little your clarification as the headlines hit on kind of the discovery process of new nuclear.
Can you just maybe explain more broadly how you were thinking about that? Sure.
Yeah.
Sure.
Absolutely.
It was funny how that got reported.
It’s actually on the YouTube website.
I gave a speech I think I was keynoting at the Bipartisan Policy Center along with Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz and with all that energy innovation and after the talk was given I had a few questions-and-answers.
And I think this was the first question and it really went to why isn’t anybody else building nuclear and I went on to describe kind of what kind of companies could build new nuclear and what kind of had to be in place and I referred to different energy markets in the United States and at the very end of the comment I said something like and what I would love to be in position by the end of the year to announce that we are building that was starting even more nuclear.
In doing that everybody should know that the way you start the process is the way we start the process at Vogtle 3 and 4 and that is you would begin a permitting process.
Remember too that from kind of beginning to end is 10 years or so.
So we are really talking about nuclear generation that could be in service in the middle of next decade and the first process that you start is the permitting process where we would only do that as we did with Vogtle 3 and 4 with concurrence of our state regulatory jurisdiction whichever one was relevant at that time.
That I was talking it and what that does is preserves the option to build a nuclear if in fact that looks like it desirable from a customer standpoint in the future.
Tom with the carbon rule sitting out there or with the review going on what do you think is going to be the legal course as you guys look at the rule if it stays roughly as written in the final decision and do you guys think there is a potential for a stay or is that too big of an ask? That's a fascinating question Dan.
The overreach here to me is so clear and it’s interesting.
The EPA says we are giving everybody flexibility.
They can’t give you what is not there to give.
The inference must be the somehow Congress via the Clean Air Act gave EPA more power over the electric utility industry and new power over relatively what has been the purview of the state than even the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
In other words somehow EPA is taking the authority to require in some respect renewable portfolio of standard state energy efficiency standards they are taking the power to obviate what has been the long standing practice of economic dispatch and incorporate a concept of environmental dispatch and in the course raise prices significantly and perhaps reduce reliability.
My sense is this overreach is so great.
I think there is number one a significant opportunity to amend the rule before it becomes final and number two to work in whatever jurisdiction is sensible to achieve a better structure or better timeframe in which to evaluate it.
Will determination on a final rule have bearing on the potential construction of additional nuclear division -- nuclear so you… Sure.
… would starting this process now facilitate more? Yeah.
In other words but there is also some unintended consequences the nuclear rule is written really doesn't it actually helps to penalize people have taken early action.
Since 2005 Southern Company has reduced our carbon emissions 26%.
We’ve led the United States in the renaissance of new nuclear and essentially we don't get on to getting credit for those actions.
And even in the plant even if you haven’t started if you’ve contemplated plant they would include those in the calculation and you don't get credit for that.
Now having said all that any passage of further regulation around greenhouse gases does incent new nuclear that is clear.
And in fact building new nuclear is in our view has been a hedge against future carbon regulation.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Eggers thank you.
Now we’ll go to our next question.
It is from the line of Steven Fleishman Wolfe Research.
Go ahead.
Hey Steve.
Hey Tom.
How are you? Good.
How are you doing? I’m doing great.
So first I guess just to clarify the clarification of the nuclear -- the new nuclear excuse me.
So is this -- are you at a point when you are doing kind of your RFP process or other stuff where you need to be making decisions on the next round of baseload and thus looking at permitting nuclear or something else over the next 12 months or 24 months or no? There is nothing new in the statement that we haven’t said numerous times already.
We believe nuclear is a dominant solution in the portfolio of Southern Company generation going forward.
When all things considered we need baseload you need baseload intermediate peaking.
We know that coal is kind of moving away from favor in America.
So to the extent you’re going to do coal.
It looks like a Kemper plant.
If you’re not going to do coal it’s nuclear.
And so if you’re going to preserve nuclear as an option to add as a baseload resource in the middle of the next decade you need to start thinking about the steps necessary to preserve that option that’s all I was referring to.
Okay.
And then switching gears I think Georgia was going to do a pretty large solar RFP.
Is there any update on that process? Yes Steve they have that process ongoing.
There were bids that were made.
I think it was late April.
There will be a short-list notification sometime in the middle of August and then a final -- the final selection I guess would be mid October of this year.
And we’ll know by then I guess whether Southern Power or Georgia Power will be either in the short-list or the final list by the October call.
Okay great.
And then I guess one last question I guess for Tom.
Just -- we started seeing some more utility M&amp;A activity recently in the sector.
Could you maybe just give us an update in your thinking on consolidation in the sector and how Southern might or might not participate in that? Well here again this is going to be a standard answer Steve.
We are not going to comment on any specific transaction of course.
And of course it is standard for management to exercise its fiduciary responsibility to evaluate option enhancing -- the value enhancing strategy for its shareholders to the extent any of those opportunities come to fore of course we’ll pursue it and if successful announce it.
But it’s something we do all the time.
We look all the time.
And our position is we’re reasonably conservative from a financial standpoint.
We believe in maintaining the highest level of financial integrity.
I know one of the invoke idea is these day is to use cash.
I think the underlying presumption there is to use debt at least as a bridge underlying the cash.
But I really don't have anything new to add that I haven’t said before.
We’ll look at it all the time.
You look extraordinarily hard to complete successfully that really do accrete to shareholder value.
But that doesn't mean we won't be trying.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Yes sir.
Thank you very much.
We’ll go to our next question.
It is from the line of Anthony Crowdell from Jefferies LLC.
Go ahead.
Good afternoon guys.
Good afternoon Jeff.
How are you? Just hopefully a quick question on the Southern Power project.
I’m just wondering what type of returns are you seeing on solar now? And I think with the advent of YieldCos and all these other type entities has there been like a downward pressure on the returns you are getting from renewables? Well we continue to look at that Anthony.
We’ve got a process whereby we evaluate every deal on its own.
There is not a one-size fits all approach here.
We look at the terms and conditions around whatever they maybe the offtaker where the project is located whether there is any other legal risk associated with the contracts within the states that we’re looking at.
And we’ll adjust our hurdle rates based on those.
But I’m not going to comment on any kind of return number that we look at because it varies honestly with every project we did.
It’s reasonably consistent I think.
We haven’t changed our hurdle rates as we expect kind of what the market is showing us.
I haven’t seen a dramatic change of what yield curves are offering in the market.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Yeah bet.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question.
It is from the line of Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
Go ahead.
Hey Mark.
Hey good afternoon everybody.
How are you doing? Great.
This is going to be a tough question but I know you can't really comment on the details.
But I guess maybe the larger items that we should really be focused on when we see the outcome of the Mississippi prudency process there.
And can you maybe walk us through how that's going to -- how it will be announced and what to look for? So we alluded to it in the opening comments and it really kind of go to the idea of global settlement.
There is a whole host of the issues that could be taken into account in what we describe as our ongoing constructed dialog with this type of questions.
I know you all will say about where are you in that.
And I think the best thing for us to say right now is to let the people do their work and when we have something to announce we’ll announce it to not say too much at this point.
Good.
We remain optimistic about our result.
Okay okay.
I guess the most likely outcome like you mentioned is maybe more of a settlement between the related -- the parties involved.
Well sure.
We are then working on our -- so called global settlement that takes into account a number of issues and we think we’re having constructive dialog about that issue.
Okay.
Thanks.
I know that's pretty hard to talk about at this point.
Just a quick question on operations.
It's a smaller item but kind of an ongoing trend from the last quarter.
You have a pretty major shift in your non-Powder River burn away from the Powder River Basin.
Is this just a function of where your contracts and pricing are at or is there something else moving that needle? I think that’s a function of outages.
We had some of our Powder River units.
Thank you very much.
We’ll take our next question from the line of Paul Rizdon with KeyBank.
Go ahead.
Hello Paul.
Just any updates on the Vogtle dispute? No.
We have all engaged in conversations.
There is kind of two ways to think about that.
And I would direct you to go to their earnings call as well.
But there is the nature of the conversation between Georgia Power and the Consortium.
Recall the Consortium is Toshiba Westinghouse Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron.
And then there is a conversation within the consortium among and between Westinghouse Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron and Toshiba.
In effect what I’m saying is both of those have to be resolved in order for us to reach the settlement.
Any venture I guess as to the timeline until settlement? No I have said this before and I don’t mean to sound glib.
It’s something that could happen quickly or something that could take a long time including going to litigation.
Recall venue is Augusta Georgia.
And then just back to the new new nuclear so anyone who is expecting an announcement out of Southern by year-end took your comments out of context? Sure.
Look that’s something we said consistently.
I was kind of surprised at the amount of press it got.
Love to be in a position by the end of the year to announce and what you do when you start that process is you undertake essentially a permitting process.
And we would only do that with the approval of the relevant jurisdiction in order to recover those costs.
Recall also that’s not a commitment to build that’s a commitment to gain the option to build.
So this is something that will -- these are first steps you take in order to achieve new generation by the middle of the next decade for heaven’s sake something like that.
Okay.
Thanks again.
You bet.
Thank you.
And we’ll go to our next question from the line of Ali Agha from SunTrust.
Go ahead.
Hi Ali.
How are you? Good.
Good afternoon.
Just a couple of questions.
One Tom or Art can you remind us in your ‘14 numbers what weather-normalized electric sales have you assumed for the year? And how are you looking at them on a longer-term basis? Can you just remind us of those numbers? Yeah.
On the -- if we look at ‘14 total retail sales we expect it to be up 0.7% over 2013 level.
And then beyond that it really is around 1% to maybe a little stronger than that.
That’s a function of how fast the economy grows in the ‘15 ‘16 timeframe.
And year-to-date? Year-to-date we are standing at 1.1%.
All right.
And I know third quarter obviously is the biggest but given the trends you are seeing would that cause you to change your full-year outlook at this point? No we don’t comment on that until third quarter.
Yeah.
And just to remind everybody we only talk about guidance twice in a year.
Once when we give it and once when we kind of update it in October.
Okay.
Separately Art I know last time I think it was in the last earnings call you had mentioned with regards to equity needs for equity that you were pretty much close to your limit in staying out of the equity issuance side.
Are we still there or can you just give us an update on your latest thoughts regarding equity needs perhaps in the future? Yeah.
Ali what we talked about is issuing about $600 million of new equity this year.
And through June we’ve issued $331 million.
So we’re well on track to hit our target.
And our target hasn’t changed.
Okay.
And last question Tom for you.
Again you all have given us an update longer-term talking about your earnings trajectory slight slowdown next couple of years and then a pickup again down the road.
Are you seeing opportunities that could change that trajectory and cause the near-term growth to go up as well or is that still the profile we should be looking at for the next five years or so? That’s still the profile.
You know that we’re a conservative company and so we wanted to give you kind of -- we've never really gone out that far talking about what our earnings trajectory might be.
And the reason we did that because we felt it had a shape.
And so we wanted to describe the shape to you all.
We continue to work hard on late to improve that shape.
We have several things that we’re kicking around internally here opportunities with Southern Power opportunities around the traditional business.
But not that we want to give the weight that would be derived from conversation in this form still kicking around a lot of stuff.
Got it.
Thank you.
Yes sir.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
And we’ll go to our next question.
It is from the line of Paul Patterson of Glenrock Association.
Go ahead.
Hey Paul.
Paul? Hi.
How are you doing? Sorry about that? Sure.
Hi how are you doing? Sorry about that.
A lot of my questions have been answered but just to sort of fall back on Kemper.
If I understood your comments earlier it sounds like you guys pretty much feel that the boundaries are laid out in such a way that there probably isn't going to be much more of a cost increase potential there.
Is that -- am I understanding that correctly? So I am looking at all those risks.
If I were to focus more on startup risks what would the risk be and I used the funny phrase unknown unknown right.
So let’s say as we go through startup some piece of equipments failed that we didn’t anticipate.
We tried to mitigate or at lease be proactive in mitigating startup risks by providing I think extra man of inventory of we think -- what we think are critical parts to the plant.
But in startup if something does not perform well or needs to be redesigned or whatever that could add more months to the schedule for example and that would require increased cost.
Right now we have reserves through I guess the very end of May June for us whatever you to call it.
So we maintained that estimate.
Obviously if we didn’t have comments to that estimate we would have changed it.
We had a good quarter in construction and I think being pipe-tight.
So that means essentially all the pipe is erected.
Now we still need to test it and other things.
We just had a good quarter and I want to make sure that’s been on the site there.
They are just working like crazy.
Understand that we appreciate their effectiveness this quarter.
The challenge now transitions I think largely become a structure project to a start project.
That will have its own set of issues we will see.
Okay.
I did notice that the first fire of gasifier A's schedules have been pushed out.
Would that be a key thing to look for in September or October as being one of key test? That’s right Paul.
I mean to the extent you can’t made that kind of schedule that puts pressure on the back end we move the schedule in concert with the new estimated new member when we came up with the May schedule.
So we changed a lot of the major components along that way.
So that schedule is consistent with the completion date at the end of May.
Okay.
And then I think Steve was asking about M&amp;A.
And I remember previously that you guys had a preference for the super Southeast.
And I was sort of wondering just geographically does that -- I'm not sure exactly what that means.
Does that include Texas? Or is that still something that you guys have a preference for the Southeast versus other areas? Let me speak very broadly about that.
The preference in something like a super Southeast would be where you could gain natural synergies.
That’s what that comment alludes to okay.
So let me just pick stuff out of the air.
We would have more synergies operationally in a company that was inside our footprint or adjacent to it or whatever.
Then we would for a company in Canada.
That’s really the concept you are after there.
So in preferring the super Southeast it is the idea that you can more readily gain operational synergies and let me also distinguish between asset M&amp;A where you don’t really require synergy so much.
That’s like building a solar plant in New Mexico relative to corporate M&amp;A which is I think what you are referring to.
Okay.
I got the picture.
Thanks so much.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And we will go to our next question.
It’s from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Hey Michael how are you I am all right Tom.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Really a near-term one and this may be more of an Art one.
Third quarter guidance if I back out all the one-time items from third quarter of last year is flat to actually down a little bit? How should we think about the puts and takes not really just for third quarter but also for fourth quarter -- meaning kind of what's weighing on third quarter? Why isn't there a little growth year-over-year of third quarter of 2013 to third quarter of 2014? And what does that mean or imply for fourth quarter? Is it an O&amp;M timing issue? Is it a view on kind of the summer? Just trying to ask some of the near-term puts and takes.
Yeah O&amp;M is certainly an aspect that if you look at our history we are second half spending company.
And depending on actually how the third quarter goes because the third quarter represents fully 45% of our annual earnings it’s a big player and that points directly at four quarter earnings over the last five years.
We have earned anywhere from $0.18 and $20.10 to 0.48 last year and that’s a reflection of where we end up through the third quarter.
We also have weather impacts as well as you know and we’re assuming normal weather throughout the remainder of the year but that’s certainly something we have to plan into account for.
The other aspect is the share count and share counts are up.
We talked about issuing new shares this year.
So you got to weigh that into and once you factor all of that net these are all the things that are as you say puts and takes on where the number went up.
Got it.
And when we think about just the next year year and a half maybe year or so what's next on the horizon going across the Southern system in terms of just thinking about rate filings rate actions that could involve not just pretty small numbers but where there is stuff on the horizon that folks should pay a lot of attention to? Michael this is Art.
Georgia completed their rate case last year right.
So they are good through 2016 from a new rate filing perspective.
And when you look at Gulf Gulf power miss a -- well they filed the rate case last year that was settled.
They are going through 2016 as well.
Alabama as you know has filings every year and there will file hat something in the fall so you would need to look at their as to what particular filing would have.
There are also clauses at some of our operating companies that could operate as well.
Alabama being one of those.
You also have fuel issues at each of our operating companies .Right now systems wide we are 283 million underrecovered on fuel and some of our companies have had to file with their regulatory bodies just as information not necessarily for a change in rate but some of them maybe dealt with some of them maybe pushed out.
And then Mississippi I believe is good through 2025-$016 as well from their PEP filings.
So it varies but o think to a large degree al of those are pretty well settled.
Alabama be in the annual filing that you would have to each year.
And in Alabama you would attempt to recover the deferral that you made in the prior RSE process? Yeah of the O&amp;M deferral that what you were referring? Yes.
That’s correct.
And that’s over another period of time I think over 3 years.
Any of that is always part of the calculus.
Yes got me.
And then last item just thoughts on bonus depreciation.
It’s kind of been bantered around back and forth a little bit in DC.
Just curious in terms of A what the impact would be on cash -- I don't know needs and uses for next year a little bit if it gets extended? And B just the general -- from a policy and from an impact on Southern's spending level how you think about it in the broader energy policy framework.
Well Michel has already in.
At 2014 we are looking at anywhere 200 to 225 but when you look at 2015 it’s would certain impact some of our assets and it will impact some of our match compliance.
So I don’t have a number to share with you but it could dramatically impact the financing that we do from a cash flow perspective.
The other side of that sword is the fact that it reduces rate based growth.
So they are good and bad associated with bonus depreciation.
Got it.
Thank you guys.
Much appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Videla Marti with CDP Capital.
Go ahead.
Hello Videla.
Good afternoon how are you? Great.
I have got two questions kind of first one is much more industry type of thing versus you guys specifically.
Is there a lot of press recently about couple of years ago there was a huge solar flare that came off with close to threatening our entire grid and doing that and historical even back in the 1859 that knocked out all the telegraphs and things of that nature.
So I am just kind of wondering one kind of what yourselves and industry are doing to possibly prepared for that type of event that just like kind of tail end kind of things.
And that is also tied into the cyber issues.
Well so if you can just kind of talk a little bit about obviously given your position in the industry you have to sure you guys are extremely involved in all this just like to get a sense of that and I’ve got separate secondary separate question.
Yeah so we are involved.
I chair for the industry and that’s not IOUs that includes co-ops and municipal utilities it’s called the ESCC the Electricity Sector Coordinating council.
You may know that under the Department of Homeland &amp; Security they have cut commerce in the United States they segmented it into 16 pieces if you will.
And so our sector is one of the 16 so I chair that electricity sector coordination council.
And we are responsible essentially for proactive planning and adaptive responses to all things cyber physical terrorism and natural disasters.
And some of the things you suggest are absolutely part of our purview and there is quite a bit of activity going on.
And in fact the government I think you can look this up.
They government has held the electricity sector up as -- I think the best sector in terms of preparedness and response to different threats.
Lot of different things we could go into here.
You know that we have been involved in response to the kind of request for additional physical security updates.
So this kind of interrogatories back and forth between NERC.
The cyber issue you may know that we have adopted a single kind of cyber threat regime a set of software that’s kind of under the offices of the government which we will be able to detect anamolies within electronic commerce servers other things.
Access those anamolies and then be able to piece together information around the potential for threats and the best way to either protect or respond to a current threat.
All of that is going on right now and I would say on the third sector this response of natural disaster CEO of AEP great friend of mine great guys have been leading an effort in the industry to meet together a more effective response from what they call RMAX regional mutual assistance groups.
We actually I thin performed well with Hurricane Sandy but I think even now we will perform better and I think we are much better suited from a comprehensive storm to be able to respond great.
So I would be glad to fill it up with a lot more details but that’s the quick flyby.
The ESCC govern cyber terrorism physical terrorism natural disasters.
We work hand in glove with the department of homeland security through the department of energy.
We have I think unique among all the other industries deep CEO participation.
This is nothing that delegated down.
And I think we've already demonstrated I think really good plan and responsive to threat.
How much is this costing a year or cumulatively over a period of time in order to address all these possibilities? Videla that changes based on each company.
Each company is going to have a different kind of response to that question.
So if you have somebody in mind it’s much better for you to ask them than me.
Let me just give you the aggregate answer.
The amount of money that we’re talking about pale in comparison to the benefit.
As an industry we have always been committed to providing the best reliability and we understand that the United States is in a new era.
And we all understand that not only responding to but being proactive to defend ourselves against these threats is job one for us.
So yes it’s going to require some more money but I think the cost pales in comparison to the benefit.
Okay.
And I guess one last thing going back to the old M&amp;A question couple of times.
I mean in my career last time you guys ever did a corporate-on-corporate was when I first showed up in 1987 when you guys bought savanna.
And I'm just wondering given the state of the industry I mean other than finding something discrete.
Is there anything that is within -- what’s going on in the industry that makes your attention or interest in M&amp;A any higher than what it’s ever being in the past? That’s a very interesting question.
My quick answer is probably not not really.
I think we are where we have been.
We've always been very consistent in our love of the integrated regulated utility model.
We always think that we generate the best long-term value for shareholders by providing the best risk-adjusted returns around.
We think that our jurisdiction have demonstrated that we can deliver attractive returns with low-risk profiles and therefore from an EVA sense deliver I think a terrific value proposition.
For us to undertake M&amp;A activity we have to be convinced in the long run that we can preserve that kind of performance.
That’s just a big challenge.
When you look around the expression also don't chase fads.
A lot of companies will pursue things in the short run.
We really are focused on the long run.
So we don't get kind of dazzled by short-term trends we tried to keep our eye on the right long star here.
Appreciate.
Thank you Tom.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
And we get our next question from line of Andy Levi with Avon Capital.
Go ahead.
Hi Andy.
How are you? Yeah.
I’m good.
Thank you.
And I thought that was a very good question on last one we are last.
And I apologize ahead of time for asking this question but I feel the question is need to be ask because I just had a notice it’s coming up in one of the companies that your doing businesses.
So if you look at kind of CBI and its stock price has dropped from 85 to 60.
And I am by no mean an accounting expert or an expert in CBI but obviously this is the financial issues that were brought up whether they are true or not.
But I just want to know how kind of that affects your thinking and whether it’s affected any of the construction or are there any concerns that Southern has relative to CBI.
Yeah.
And Andy thank you for the question.
You all know this we’re completely transparent we love question.
Anything you want to ask is fully fair game so never apologize.
The second thing is we think CBI is a great partner in this project.
We think the performance frankly off the project.
The challenges have been redo some states comment.
And I meet periodically with Philip Asherman their CEO back.
In fact Buzz Miller and will flew to Houston two weeks ago to meet with them.
Just go eye to eye on certain issues.
We do that all the time.
And frankly I think this week we’re meeting with Westinghouse and Toshiba personnel and DC.
So this is something that we do as an ongoing matter.
This is not constructing plant Vogtle 3 and 4 in many respects it’s not a delegated activity.
But Buzz Miller certainly does a great job but we’re all involved.
With respect of any challenges that CBI had recently that have been in the press look the right people that I ask about that is CBI.
We can't speak for them at all and we do look at their earnings call and at least from our position in terms of the interrelationship we have on plant Vogtle 3 and 4.
We think they have fully explained that to the investment community and we are very satisfied with their relationship in the consumer channel and their relationship to us.
Great.
Thank you very much for answering that.
You better.
Thank you.
And we’ll get our next question from the line of Dan Jenkins State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
Got it ahead.
Hello there.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
I have a couple questions on your slides on Vogtle Kemper and then some on related to your sales.
And excuse me if these are repeats but I kind of missed the beginning.
I had some issues with calling in.
But I just wanted to try to get a sense on slide 4 how we should think about the timing? The things you have listed as near-term and on the horizon are those things that will occur in the third quarter or how should we think about the timing of those items that you have classified there? Yeah.
Dan this is Art.
CA05 I think we get dressed in the script that we talked about this morning and we’re looking at like it was September.
Before CA05 that what we did comment there was is out of the module assembly building but it is a waiting.
It’s going under further modifications but it will be lifted sometime within the next month or two into the nuclear island.
But setting the containment vessel lower ring those are already complete and ready to go.
They're going to probably do that after they insert CA05 so again from a timing perspective it sometime probably September.
And then the cooling tower vertical construction I guess on unit 3.
I'm guessing Dan and this is sometime in the next four months.
But Dan that really is not what we would call critical path.
Critical path is all in the nuclear island.
In terms of unit four again module fabrication has just begun on their major module.
The nuclear wall installation will continue and by the way we’re making great progress on unit four.
If you compare activities we’re learning a lot of lessons from our construction in unit 3 and applying them on unit 4.
And then the turbine building vertical construction is certainly not critical path either on unit 4 but it is going very well and you'll see steel come up out of the ground probably sometime late this year.
Yeah.
If I do that real quick I would say and it just goes back.
Dan maybe you miss the reading on the script.
CA05 September CA01 late fourth quarter or early first quarter next year Elevation 100 concrete pour near year end.
Okay.
And then on Kemper I was wondering just I was looking prior to the call at your presentation I think you did back in June.
And I just want to make sure I understand the terminology.
You've mentioned first gasifier fire expected late third quarter or early fourth where earlier it set first gasifier heat-up targeted for mid-to-late summer.
So is heat-up and fire different or are they the same or how should I think about that? Hey Dan those are the same.
And it’s moved out a bit again.
It’s getting ready doing a lot of the milestones ahead of that like airflow testing and making sure the lignite dryers work like they are designed to do.
So there are test all along of the way with equipment that Tom describes earlier in the call.
But the pressure test on Train A took a couple of three weeks or whatever the pressure on Train B went very quickly.
So we’re very gratified with our progress so far.
I know the last quarter I think you talked a little bit about how the timing of these in-service dates on Kemper have some implications for the tax credits and so forth or the investment tax credits.
And you have here first syngas production expected late this year.
Would that be enough to qualify that for those credits this year or not if you were able to achieve that? Tax perspective from a mix bonus depreciation perspective will be the combined cycle by putting it in service -- for bill.
They push is bonus depreciation into 2015 as well.
So we just have to wait.
That probably wouldn’t happen until later this year.
But we really don't want to get into all the details of that because we don't want to front run the regulatory discussions going on.
Okay.
And then just the last question I had his kind of related to -- your industrial sales year-to-date have been up almost 3% which is quite a bit stronger than I think your forecast.
I wonder if you can give us a little more color just on…  I’ll catch you up.
Yeah.
It was broad based you look at our top 10 industrial segments all of them show growth most of the quarter and year-to-date period.
Chemicals our largest segment was up 5.4% for the quarter.
Primary metals are second largest was up 3.5%.
So it’s been very broad based and you think geographically it was across our entire footprint.
All the operating companies participated in the growth and expansion on the industrial side.
And your roundtable economic roundtable seems to suggest that people were bullish about prospects going forward.
So we expect it to continue.
Yes one other element that you may have missed Dan was that we also survey our top customers about what their sales going to be over the next six months and 90% of the risk today through 2014.
So that’s a very bullish indicator to me that they’re expecting similar sales of their products into the market.
Okay and then the last thing just on the residential side in terms of customer growth.
Is the customer growth in line with what you expected or how is that tracking? Yeah.
It’s going directly in line with what we expected.
We’ve added 13 300 residential customers since the end of last year.
If you look at a year-over-year it's right at 25 000.
So it is going directly in line with our expectations for the year.
Okay.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Thank you very much.
And at this time there are no further question.
Sir are there any closing remarks.
Yeah.
Just want to say thank you again for participating with us this afternoon.
The team here is working hard to generate value by continuing the attractive returns that we’re able to demonstrate and manage risk especially in our major projects as we go forward.
We appreciate your attendance and will be with you shortly as we hit the road as we always do.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Good day everyone.
Good afternoon my name is Rebecca and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Southern Company's fourth quarter 2014 earnings call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dan Tucker Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Planning.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Rebecca.
Welcome everyone to Southern Company's fourth quarter 2014 earnings call.
Joining me this afternoon are Tom Fanning Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Company; and Art Beattie Chief Financial Officer.
Let me remind you that we will make forward-looking statements today in addition to providing historical information.
Various important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements including those discussed in our Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
In addition we will present non-GAAP financial information on this call.
Reconciliations to the applicable GAAP measure are included in the financial information we released this morning as well as the slides for this conference call.
To follow along during the call you can access these slides on our Investor Relations website at www.southerncompany.com.
We have a full agenda for today's call.
We will begin with a brief recap of 2014 operational highlights followed by an update on the Kemper and Vogtle projects.
We will then discuss fourth quarter and full year 2014 financial results and sales results and finally we will provide earnings guidance for 2015.
At this time I'll turn the call over to Tom Fanning.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
I am pleased to report that Southern Company's franchise operations have never performed better than they did in 2014.
In 2014 we continue to provide the best customer service in the business.
In fact Southern Company and its four traditional operating companies occupied the top five spots for all customer classes combined in the customer value benchmark survey our annual peer comparison of United States electric utilities.
This marks the 11<sup>th</sup> time in the past 13 years that Southern Company has ranked in the top cortile for all customer classes in that survey.
And earlier this month those of our traditional operating companies that were rated in the J.D.
Power &amp; Associates survey all ranked either first or second in their respective categories.
Alabama Power was also named the most-trusted residential electric utility in America by Lifestory Research an independent consumer market research firm.
In terms of system reliability we have continued to set and raise the bar.
Our 2014 peak season EFOR of 1.9% was particularly exceptional compared to the most recent five-year national average of around 9%.
And our transmission and distribution businesses performed superbly setting all-time system records for frequency and duration of transmission outages as well as an all-time system record for distribution outage frequency.
Meanwhile we achieved our second best year ever in the duration of distribution outages.
We also continue to grow our wholesale renewable portfolio through our Southern Power subsidiary which added three new solar facilities in 2014.
The 20 megawatt Adobe facility in California the 50 megawatt Macho Springs facility in New Mexico and the 150 megawatt Solar Gen 2 facility in California.
Southern Power also had a 131 megawatt solar plant under development in Georgia that is expected to begin operation in late 2016.
With completion of this facility Southern Power is expected to own more than 460 megawatts of solar capacity and is clearly becoming an industry leader in the advancement and operation of this important technology.
In these areas and many others Southern Company's franchise business continues to lead the way strengthening existing operations and seeking new opportunities to expand our reach all for the benefit of the customers and communities we serve.
Let's now discuss our two large construction project beginning with plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4.
As you can see from the site photo we have included in our slide deck progress continues on Vogtle 3 and 4 including completion of the 601 foot Unit 3 cooling tower in December.
Our focus continues to be on quality and safety for the entire project with the two nuclear islands as our critical path going forward.
Major concrete work is progressing on both units as we prepare for key module placements later this year.
For Unit 3 we are working towards installation of the CA01 module inside the containment vessel this spring and the first shield building panel this summer.
For Unit 4 we are working towards installation of the CA04 module in the containment vessel and assembly of the CA20 auxiliary building.
Vogtle 3 and 4 remain a valuable investment for customer.
Considering all of the $2.3 billion in projected customer benefits including production tax credits DOE loan guarantees and CBI pay-in rates in addition to the benefits of low cost nuclear fuel we expect the net rate effect on Georgia Power customers to be approximately 6.8%.
Recall that when the Georgia Public Service Commission initially approved the project in 2009 base rates were expected to increase 12%.
L.A.
last week we disclosed the receipt of a revised forecast for completion from our contractors that reflects an 18-month delay from the previous estimated in-service days.
The process of reviewing the revised forecast for completion the drivers for change and possible mitigation opportunities continues.
We have not agreed to any change to the guaranteed substantial completion dates nor do we believe that all efforts to mitigate the contractor delays have been made.
Based on our review thus far and considering the fixed and firm nature of our EPC contract we believe the contractors are responsible for their costs associated with the delay and any costs to mitigate.
We will still be responsible for our share of the owners cost.
For example cost associated with oversight and operational readiness which we estimate to be approximately $10 million per month.
We will also continue to incur financing cost of approximately $30 million per month.
Our contract also provides for liquidated damages for each day the two units are late and this stipulation should help mitigate the cost of any delay.
Largely because of the protections provided in our EPC contract even if one assumes the entire 18-month contractor delay the rate impact to customers is minimal and were made solidly inside our earlier projection of 6% to 8%.
We will continue our review process and plan to file our 12<sup>th</sup> Vogtle Construction Monitoring Report with the Georgia Public Service Commission on February 27.
Now let's turn to an update on the Kemper County IGCC project.
As we shared with you in October we are moving down three parallel path towards first syngas production in the third quarter of this year.
I'm pleased to report that all three paths operational training control systems validation and start-up and check-out activities are underway and progressing well.
Steam blows and a series of low pressure tests were completed in late 2014.
The first quarter of this year will include critical airflow tests as well as first fire of the gasifier this spring.
During the same timeframe we will be testing and tuning our Lignite delivery system.
The combined cycle at Kemper project also continues to perform very well.
We expect the fine tuning we've enabled to do while operating the unit on natural gas will benefit the project greatly during the final integration with the gasifier.
With construction largely behind us and in recognition of the critical startup and operational activities ahead in early December we augmented our existing team by adding a new Site Vice President Chip Troxclair.
Chip brings over 30 years of industry experience to the project primarily in the startup and operation of gasification plants.
Chip's extensive background combined with existing expertise already on site will help us navigate the startup process all the way through the operation of the facility.
Turing to the regulatory front we continue to have constructive discussions with the PSE staff in Mississippi.
As is our usual approach we prefer to let those discussions conclude before we share any details.
I'll now turn the call over to Art for a financial and economic review.
Thanks Tom.
As you can see from the materials we released this morning we had solid results for the fourth quarter 2014 as well as for the full year 2014.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 we earned $0.33 per share compared to $0.47 per share in the fourth quarter of 2013.
For the full year 2014 we earned $2.21 per share compared to $1.88 per share in 2013.
Our results for the fourth quarter 2014 include after-tax charges of $43 million or $0.05 per share.
And the earnings for the full year 2014 include after-tax charges totaling $536 million or $0.59 per share related to increased cost estimates for construction of Mississippi Power's Kemper County integrated gasification combined cycle project.
Earnings for the fourth quarter of 2013 include after-tax charges of $25 million or $0.03 per share.
And earnings for the full year 2013 include after-tax charges totaling $729 million or $0.83 per share related to increased cost estimates for construction of the Kemper project.
As a reminder Mississippi will not seek recovery of estimated cost to complete the facility above the $2.88 billion cost cap net of Department of Energy grants and exceptions to the cost cap.
Results for the full year 2013 also include an after-tax charge of $16 million or $0.02 per share for the restructuring of a leverage lease investment recorded in the first quarter of 2013.
Earnings for the fourth quarter and full year 2013 also include $12 million or $0.02 per share of insurance recovery related to the March 2009 litigation settlement agreement with MC Asset Recovery LLC.
Excluding these items earnings for the fourth quarter and full year 2014 were $0.38 and $2.80 per share respectively compared with $0.48 and $2.71 per share respectively for the same periods in 2013.
Earnings for the fourth quarter and full year 2014 were positively influenced by retail revenue effect at Southern Company's traditional operating companies offset by increased operating and maintenance expenses.
Full year 2014 earnings were further positively influenced by closer-to-normal weather and increased customer growth compared with the full year 2013.
Moving now to an economic and sales review of 2014.
As expected economic growth in 2014 was modest but after experiencing weakness during the first quarter the company expanded strongly throughout the remainder of the year.
This expansion was led by manufacturing output increased exports and a stronger domestic economy.
Total weather adjusted retail sales grew 0.9% in 2014 led by industrial sales which were up 2.3% in the fourth quarter and 3.3% for the year.
We have now enjoyed seven consecutive quarters of positive year-over-year industrial sales growth in our region.
We experienced growth across all major industrial segments with sales now at pre-recession levels.
The strongest segments include primary metals up 8% and transportation up 6%.
Housing-related industries continue to improve with both lumbar and stone clay and glass up 5%.
Weather adjusted residential sales were essentially flat for 2014.
Customer gains in the first quarter of 2014 were interrupted due to extreme weather but began recovering in the second quarter.
In fact we added more than 31 500 new residential customers in 2014 15% ahead of 2013 and saw the issuance of 57 000 residential building permits or 6% more than in 2013.
Personal income meanwhile grew at 2% in 2014 compared with flat growth in 2013 but a higher share of multi-family customer gains continues to challenge use per customer growth.
Weather adjusted commercial sales were down 0.4% for the year and continue to be challenged by high office and retail vacancy rates.
In Atlanta for example vacancy rates were 18% versus a national average of 17%.
On the bright side however employment growth continues to absorb excess office and retail space in Atlanta which is ranked number 10 nationally in overall office market activity and number one in hotel occupancy rates.
Meanwhile our economic development pipeline remains robust with more than 300 projects representing 43 000 potential jobs and over $29 billion dollars in potential capital investment.
Major announcements in the fourth quarter of 2014 included the decision by Mercedes Benz to relocate its U.S.
headquarters to Metro Atlanta a move that will add some 800 jobs to the local economy.
General Motors' decision to locate a technology development center in Metro Atlanta creating 400 jobs and plans by Unisys for a research and development center in Augusta which will create some 700 jobs.
In addition Häring a manufacturer of precision automotive components will locate a production facility in Hartwell Georgia creating an additional 800 jobs.
Looking ahead to 2015 industrial sales are expected to lead the way with growth of 1.7% continuing the momentum of the last seven quarters.
Some of our industrial customers could be positively impacted or affected by lower oil prices while others could be negatively affected by an increase in the value of the dollar and a slowing global economy.
Elsewhere we anticipate continued residential growth of around 1% and commercial sales grow of approximately 1.4%.
The primary driver of residential sales growth should be continued strengthening of residential customer growth and a continued recovery of the economy.
The strengthening of personal income growth.
Both residential and commercial sales should benefit from lower oil prices which some have characterized as a $700 per car oil dividend.
As noted earlier the Atlanta office market is one of the most active in the U.S.
with vacancy rates dropping throughout 2014.
In 2015 we expect to add more than 1 million square feet of office and retail space to be added in just three new Atlanta area mixed use developments Ponce City market Avalon and Buckhead Atlanta.
These new commercial projects are expected to absorb the majority of their new space during 2015 and should therefore contribute to increased energy sales this year.
As a final note we reengaged earlier this month with our economic roundtable group of regional economist and executives from several of our largest customers that meets twice a year.
The panel has indicated that they expect GDP growth of approximately 3% in 2015 consistent with our own expectation but we're cautious about the potential impact of a stronger dollar in the short-term and higher oil prices later in the year.
The group agrees with our expectation that industrial activity will continue to improve but believes that growth will be more restrained than in 2014 and that U.S.
housing markets will continue on an upward trend.
Meanwhile the group expects the global economy to remain sluggish.
In addition to our new sales forecast we have included an updated capital expenditure forecast and financing plan in our slide deck.
Our CapEx forecast totals $16.6 billion for the three-year period 2015 to 2017.
With environmental compliance CapEx for MATS wrapping up in 2015 and early 2016 and Kemper CapEx concluding in early 2016 the CapEx for our traditional operating companies is projected to decline from $5.4 billion in 2015 to $4.2 billion and $3.9 billion in 2016 and 2017 respectively.
As we highlighted during our call in October and as Tom reiterated earlier in this call Southern Power had tremendous success finding new renewable projects in 2014.
The 2015 and 2016 base CapEx forecast for Southern Power include the projected investments for several of these projects.
As we look ahead Southern Power continues to pursue additional renewables projects that meet our investment criteria.
To account for these new potential investments we have designated $1.9 billion as a placeholder CapEx for 2015 to 2017.
Since the 30% investment tax credit will be reduced to 10% after 2016 most of the placeholder dollars are allocated 2015 and 2016.
Our external financing plan reflects zero equity needs for 2015 to 2017.
Our forecast assumes more than $1.8 billion in additional draws over the three-year period on our DOE loan guarantees for plant Vogtle 3 and 4.
And I would like to note that we have been very pleased with the success of this financing program.
The financing savings we have captured through our draws to date have exceeded our projection further increasing the benefits that we have gained for customers since certification of the project.
Moving now to EPS our earnings per share outlook.
Our earnings per share guidance for 2015 is $2.76 to $2.88 per share.
We have slightly widened the range for 2015 particularly to address to account for potential variability in Southern Power's earning.
As I discussed earlier our plans assume that Southern Power will continue its efforts to find renewable projects that meet our investment criteria.
The middle of our guidance range assumes that Southern Power is able to invest all of the placeholder CapEx that we have included in our forecast.
The size of the range recognizes that we may find fewer or more projects than we are currently forecasting.
It is also intended to capture the potential for projects to slip out of 2015 and into 2016 which would shift the ITC benefits accordingly.
Of course our guidance range also accounts for the normal variability we have historically seen in our traditional operating companies as well as Southern Power including normal variations in weather the economy and wholesale energy prices.
As has been our practice for many years we have considered much of this potential variability in developing our flexible O&amp;M spending plan.
Going forward our long-term EPS growth outlook is still in the 3% to 4% range.
In addition our earnings estimate for the first quarter of 2015 is $0.55 per share.
I'll now turn the call back over to Tom for his closing remarks.
Thanks Art.
After a successful year in 2014 Southern Company is entering the New Year with a strong sense of momentum.
We see a franchise business that is operating better than ever solidifying its position as an industry-leader in all phases of the business.
We see important progress on major capital project and a continued commitment to resolving challenges in a manner that is consistent with our customer-focused business model.
And we see a strengthening economy and a region poised to grow in the months and years ahead.
In short we believe Southern Company is well-positioned to succeed in the year ahead behind the strength of our 26 000 employees and their commitment to provide clean safe reliable and affordable energy to the customers and communities we're proud to serve.
We are now ready to take your questions.
So operator we'll now take the first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with Evercore ISI.
So couple questions.
When I look at the guidance range for this year it's like $0.03 lower on the high-end and maybe $0.04 $0.05 lower on the low-end than the aspiration you had in the last year's fourth quarter earnings call.
Those aren't big numbers but can you give us a sense of what the drivers were that caused the range to come down slightly year-over-year? Yes Greg you're right.
It's a little overweight.
We are where we were with some minor tweaks.
We've had some cropping of the top-end due to a couple things; additional bonus depreciation that we have not factored in the last year's numbers and we issued slightly more equity than we had communicated last year.
Most of that being due to stock option exercises primarily in the fourth quarter.
So instead of raising $600 million of new equity we raised $800 million of new equity.
So we've got more shares outstanding.
And those two things will crop the top-end a little bit.
The bottom-end really is as I've said in the script mostly related to performance variability around Southern Power.
If we didn't get any of those price holder investments than that's where we'd be at the bottom.
And timing of those as well.
Two more questions.
Second question when I look at Southern Power on Page 8 of your earnings release; you gave the quarter ending and year ending net income by segment and Southern Power did a $172 million in '14.
Is it your expectation that at the midpoint of guidance you'd be at around the same number the high-end the low-end or are you higher or lower than that.
It might be in and around that maybe a little more that that.
But it would require that we do something similar that we did last year in the terms of our Solar acquisition.
Yes Greg that number at midpoint is $180 million.
And that assumes you deployed the amount of capital you just articulated? That's right.
But as Art said it's highly dependent on how much and when and all that it's a little lumpy.
Final question.
Can you give us a sense of I understand your legal and financial position with regards to your relationship with your constructor at Vogtle what are the next series of milestones that we need to be mindful of to see how this interaction evolves? Have you worked with them to get the performance that you want and they in turn pushback against you on what they deem to be their perspective on the costs? Just recently we were given a 10 000 page document that speaks to an intergraded project scheduled and so the very first steps are to kind of wait through all of that detail and to really kind of turn data into information.
We need to work with the contractors to understand the assumptions underlying that new schedule that they have provided.
Even from the outset we believe that they have not taken and this is in the words I've been using consistently this is like an unmitigated schedule.
And that we believe there is lots of things that they could do to improve it.
Weighing against that are the facts that and this has been disclosed thoroughly on VCM 11 that they just have continued issues with respect to engineering and construction and we look forward to their effort to resolve those issues.
If you want to something describe those issues it's the VCM 11 process.
It's exceedingly open process.
The independent monitor Dr.
Jacob testified that length in VCM 11 so you can get all the information you want to get.
I think it's very clear that the contractors have just had continued difficulties.
We say all along that you will always challenges and the issue is how successful you are is determined by how well you resolve the challenges.
We are working with the contractors to resolve their challenges.
Complicating all of these issues is the fact that we believe there are financial disputes among and between Westinghouse and Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron.
And we think that's having an impact on the schedule that they have delivered to us so it's really going through all of that.
We are very comforted by the fact that we are committed to building a quality plan a safe plan and we are also very much comforted by the fact that for the additional costs even if you believe it's going to be 18-month delay which we dispute that the rate increases to customers remain within the 6% to 8% level not the 12% that was originally contemplated.
And we believe that for our additional cost there are liquidate damages to help offset those costs.
The next question comes from Dan Eggers.
Just on the CapEx plans.
If you compare last year's CapEx plans to this year's CapEx plan obviously they all have this backward shape that you've shifted it out a year from what you had last year.
What do you see is the ability to fill in kind of '16 and '17 to maybe stabilize that CapEx plan looking out or are we going to have wait until further in the decade to see that happen? What we've got in there now are placeholders from Southern Power.
Obviously we could do more.
We've got the tax appetite to do a little more than what we've outlined there.
But we are still incubating other opportunities around the things that we talked about last year be it expansion of our ability to take advantage of additional rate-based items and our investment in pipes and other things but we are not in a position to work to talk about that yet.
But in addition to that we've got opportunities possibly on the environmental side which aren't fully vetted yet.
Tom? Well what I would add is this kind of spectrum I've chatted about here on the stump really since the Dallas Financial Conference and then again in South Florida.
We kind of have this spectrum of opportunity Dan of kind of at a minimum buying back our own shares.
We've talked about how for the amount of business risk we see we maybe equity over capitalized.
On the other hand given the kind of high market-to-book PE ratios however you want to describe it maybe it's more attractive to buy somebody else's shares.
But as we've talked in the past that's always been a very challenging proposition for us across.
We have a big EVA shop we believe that we would have to be reasonably clear about a way to earn a return on and return up the premium associated with any sort of activity there.
And I think in the middle is kind of where we've tipped our hand as to our sweet spot and that is buying other assets.
Certainly that's what we did in '14.
So look for us to be active creative and aggressive in looking for opportunities.
Now you spent a lot of money on assets this year successfully or in the process but it didn't really change the growth rate with the deployment of capital.
Is that reflective of the fact you're seeing some pressure on the returns you're getting on those projects or is it other things mitigating some of that upward inflation you would have expected on growth? We've always been reasonably conservative in terms of setting our IRR curves for the kind of risks and projects we see.
One of the things we mentioned back in October that we thought was emerging in the market remains true and that is we do have compared to a lot of people scale and a robust tax appetite.
And therefore we look like a pretty good customer pretty good partner in these deals.
So my sense is we're still going to see those opportunities.
It's not causing us to drop our IRRs in any respect we're able to maintain those to our satisfaction.
And I guess one last question on loan growth.
Your expectations in residential and commercial show your positive year-on-year comps after this year not really showing those gains.
What do you think will be the biggest factors to convert that from flat to growth this year? We are looking at a lot of strong employment growth.
I think we've seen that across the board especially in the Southeast we've actually outstrip the U.S.
growth rate and employment.
And our manufacturing employment is also stronger than the U.S.
As the economy continues to improve as consumers consume the benefit of this oil dividend that we mentioned in our script we think household income is also going to be helped by the portion of that household income that's disposable.
That will translate we think into more commercial sales and hopefully will translate into more household formations which I believe jumped pretty strongly in the fourth quarter nationally.
We saw a pretty strong customer growth in our fourth quarter period as well about 10 000 new customers on the residential side.
So there is a number of elements there that we're looking at.
I mentioned on the commercial end we've got a lot of new projects coming in and around Atlanta.
There are really three areas of Atlanta that are trending towards real strong growth.
One is around the Perimeter and that is where Mercedes is going to more than likely announce their headquarters.
And that's a really strong market for new office complexes.
There is a midtown development in and around Georgia Tech which is mostly office related but it has been real strong as of late as new companies have announced citing of that to take advantage of the technology development out of Georgia Tech.
And then most recently as Porsche moved their headquarters down near the airport.
And that is a longer term development opportunity.
But they're looking at expanding office space Class A hotel space and other residential opportunities in and around that particular area.
So there are number of things that we point to.
Some will affect 2015 directly some will be later but those are real strong indicators to us that we are going to see a turnaround in commercial and residential growth per customers.
Dan let me do a quick deconstruction on the household income statement.
When you look at the revenue part of a household its wages and while we have seen some pressure there from a variety of factors people withdrawing from the work force or people moving from fulltime to part time or whatever full time jobs they have a disproportionate share going to service kind of industries.
We still see pressure on the revenue side but on the cost side the expense side if you will the household as Art mentioned I think energy prices low gas prices have really helped.
So the net consequences net income may go up and we believe its either going to be through increased saving in other words retiring household debt which is a good thing it makes the economy more resilient or more consumption.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
Just first quick question just where did 2014 CapEx come in at? Hold on a second Steve let me get that in front of me.
We were very close.
I think we've slightly under-spent the totals that we had but it won't be around in the way of differed.
I guess the reason I ask is it's a bit of the same question but from what I can tell just going back to last year your 2015 CapEx is up $1.4 billion from a year ago for '15 projection.
2016 looks like it's up a $1 billion but it's the same growth rate and if not even a little bit of a lower 2015 base.
So again just to clarify the bonus depreciation I guess is a piece of that.
Maybe you could quantify how much of that might be impacting the rate base.
And Steve you're right.
The delta there is Southern Power.
That's kind of what we're looking at.
Remember what we did in '14 was essentially put almost a three year CapEx allocation into one year.
And that was kind of low $1 billion kind of allocation number.
We're moving that number up to around $2.5 billion.
So that's kind of what we're doing on CapEx.
The delta it's mostly with Southern Power.
Yes Steve if you look at the traditional operating companies we were within $20 million in total of what we budgeted for the year.
If you throw Southern Power in we actually spent $310 million more than we had forecast from a CapEx perspective.
And just a separate question on the Vogtle information.
I know you disclosed expected monthly owner's cost for delay but did you get any update from the consortium in terms of what the expected total construction cost of the plant will be? No.
And is there any way based on the issues that they've mentioned in the saying to kind of estimate that? Well just remember Steve we are still going through the details of the latest integrated schedule.
So we really don't know what's involved and what their assumptions are and everything else.
Its 10 000 pages so we got to go through that.
And mean what we really need to know I think it is our belief and we received assertions from the executive management of the contractors throughout 2014.
And in fact the schedule could be short.
So we need to understand what their position is.
We need to understand what's required.
Our contract is very clear that it is the obligation of the contractor to undertake all methods necessary to meet the schedule requirement in the contract.
That means adding new shifts adding more people staying overtime.
Typical things you would expect to see on any construction undertaking.
So I won't know the answer to your question until we kind of sort through all those issues.
We're working as hard as we can to do that right now.
You should look to the VCM 12 is probably a more instructive kind of position for us to be in.
We'll file that February 27.
Our next question comes from Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
So just picking up on Steve's questioning.
Just curious you've said here today that the liquidated damages should help to mitigate the impact of your cost which I imagine means the $40 million a month number you referenced.
So is it a safe assumption that the per-diem amount adds up to a little less than $40 million a month or have you disclosed that at any point? We had not but we've gotten a lot of questions about it.
And we've informed our partners that we probably needed to disclose what we think the amount is.
So here we go.
There is a lot of factors that I'm going to give you subject to but essentially if you evaluate kind of the maximum amount of liquidated damages assuming the full 18 months delays again subject to a lot of factors we believe that Georgia Power's share would be about $240 million.
So what about you say 18 months delay but does the LDs kick in April of next year pending your current litigation.
Yes right they would kick in as of the guaranteed substantial completion date which is a term in the contract of April '16 and April '17.
So that $240 million number you've just given for Georgia Power share is that more than 18 months? Is that kind of from April '15 to '17 so it's more like a three year? That's right.
You got it.
There is a limit.
We aren't anywhere close to it right now so I just want to give you that.
To the extent there is other issues there could be more liquidated damages.
So what is the math behind that $240 million? Is it a daily amount or is it -- That's what it is.
It's a daily amount and you can back into that if you want to.
And the limit is $240 million? No the limit is way in excess.
So there's a longer delay effectively that would come into play.
That's right.
And then just you mentioned a couple of times that you would remain within the 6% to 8% range on customer rate impact.
Yes.
What are you assuming in now that you've faced the incremental cost you've talked about less this $240 million something like that? That's right.
And what's the rule of thumb? Is there any rule of thumb you can give us of what would push you above that range? We think we're still way short of exceeding that range.
We've talked a lot about estimates and all.
We are more near than middle of the range than we are at the top let me say it that way.
And we think we've got lots of range to stay within that range that we've been discussing.
And just one final housekeeping thing.
There was a big downtick in depreciation in the fourth quarter.
It was 424 million and has been 500-ish a quarter.
Was there something unusual happened there? Yes Jonathan there was.
Alabama Power had been deferring some O&amp;M cost under a previous commission accounting order.
And they filed a new depreciation study with the commission last year.
And they found out they had available some cost of removal elements of the depreciation that they could offset these other deferred cost with.
And so there was an entry made in the fourth quarter of last year at Alabama which actually increased non-fuel O&amp;M and decreased depreciation.
And so it had a nil effect on income but that's why you see the deltas in those particular line items.
On the subject of non-fuel O&amp;M as you talk about your 2015 guidance is what's a sensible run rate given you've had obviously some noise in the numbers this year? We got back to what I would call a more normal element this year.
So I would take the 2014 number and grow it by 3% to 3.5%.
About 1% of that will be environmental and the remainder would be just normal company operation.
John let me just add a little more line up on that.
The reason we're able to keep the 6% to 8% range in place is because of all the benefits that we've added on this $2.3 billion.
We mentioned in the course I think of the opening comments that we've been very happy with our ability to finance under the DOE loan guarantee.
And in fact we're exceeding where we thought we'd be on our estimates on that.
I think we did a drawn in December $200 million for about 3% and the average life was 22 years or something like that.
So it's been a terrific vehicle for us and actually performing better than what we thought of.
That $2.3 billion looks awfully good.
Does that include the 800 of PTCs correct? That's right.
Would you have any recourse against the contractor if sort of further delay sort of push those off the table? I don't know John.
And here is my view I frankly think my opinion the contractor has given us we believe is an unmitigated schedule.
We think there is flexibility to improve the schedule.
It doesn't take into accounts.
The comparative good progress the date of our plan I think we still have a descent amount of room before we're exposed to losing any of the PTCs for Unit 4.
Unit 3 we're still very well protected.
But if you did would you have recourse to that? I don't know.
I don't think so but that's to be decided by a lawyer I guess.
You can claim anything in a lawsuit.
Our next question comes from Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Where are you assuming with regards to stock options in your '15 guidance? Paul we got no assumption for additional equity in 2015 2016 or 2017 to the degree we have stock option exercises.
We have plans to put in place a repurchase program that would to the degree we have proceeds to reduce those back down to as close to the zero level as possible.
And I guess given that you're already $200 million ahead based on last year? Based on last year but that's where we're holding it right.
And we'll obviously see some more this year but that's our plan to address.
And then what have you achieved and what remains to be done or to qualify for the full DOE benefits or tax benefits at Kemper? We have filed for those -- at Kemper I'm sorry.
I was thinking Vogtle.
I'm sorry.
You're talking about investment tax credits? Yes.
You're talking about phase 2 investment tax credits that would relate to our carbon capture percentages.
We have to have it in service by April of '16 to qualify for those.
So right now our schedule would meet that requirement.
And there would have to be 65% or proof of 65% of carbon capture for all the gas that was produced the syngas that's produced.
And that is our target.
Yes.
That's the only hurdle? Yes.
It's a deadline and an amount removed.
And then the 200 over where you're on the options are you going to use that to buy stock in '15? At this point we're just going to see what kind of activity we get.
We'll make whatever adjustments we think are necessary.
The idea going forward is no new equity issuances.
That's correct.
We ended up the year with a common equity ratio of about 43.5% and so that's still within our marginal planning.
We don't plan on going north of that but again we'll just see what we get and we'll take out as Tom described as much of what we raise as possible.
What was your yearend share count? I'm sorry.
The yearend share count.
Just over 900 million shares.
The next question comes from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
I have one or two Vogtle questions and then some housekeeping ones.
When you go back and read the Vogtle testimony some of the interveners not the public staff are kind waving the flag of prudency meaning or imprudency.
Just curious for any comments you have in that regard whether they really have a leg to stand on by making that type of argument? What is the requirement in Georgia for something to be for a prudency disallowance or prudency review of Vogtle? Can you kind of just go through that from a regulatory construct please? Yes sure.
We don't think there has been any credible testimony that suggests there is anything imprudent in the project to date.
When you think about kind of the brick and mortar cost to the plant as provided by the contractors where -- I forgot the last number I think it was 0.5%.
I mean it's right on the money.
In terms of our own oversight cost this is kind of a $10 million per month that we see.
It's absolutely prudent for us to have oversight because we are absolutely committed to providing the highest quality safest project possible.
Recall also part of those cost are tax issues and insurance and some other thing.
I just don't see very many legs at all for any imprudence evaluations of that.
And just some housekeeping items.
How much bonus depreciation cash flow benefits you expect in 2015? And which of your segments rate bases will that have the greatest impact on? Mike let's see that's $625 million that would impact 2015 and maybe $125 million to $140 million in '15 that would impact '16 and it's mostly in the regulated OpCos but I don't have a split for you.
We can certainly get back to you later if you want.
Or just kind of pro rated across the subs based on size and scale somehow? I mean that would be reasonable.
And Art the comment you answered an earlier question about Alabama and what happened to D&amp;A in the fourth quarter.
When we think about going forward is that the new run rate kind of what we saw in the base kind of a lower new base of what we saw in the fourth quarter of '14 or is that more kind of the run rate of what we saw in prior quarters and the fourth quarter '14 was a one-off? I think the prior quarters would be the better run rate number to go with.
But when you think about non-fuel O&amp;M in that regard most of those deferred cost were deferred in 2014.
So I would leave those in the base for non-fuel O&amp;M.
Meaning grow O&amp;M by 2% a year like you commented but also ensure the D&amp;A is kind of looking at the first nine months kind of run rate-ish? Yes exactly.
Our next question comes from Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
I just wanted to talk about growth in terms of gas demand and as you think about supplying your customers.
As you think about your growth profile are there some moving parts that could cause you to want to be more aggressive in terms of growth in gas infrastructure investment.
How are you all thinking about that these days? Really interesting stuff there.
If you dial back to 2014 remember we have switched a lot away from coal to natural gas.
And one of the things that we always warn people was that gas was more volatile and there were certain risks around it.
It was not a panacea.
What we saw in the year 2014 was that we generated about the same amount of energy with coal as we did gas about 40% each.
Why was that? Because we had the fuel flexibility during polar vortex one and two to switch off spiking gas and be able to run our much cheaper coal fleet.
In fact over the year we saved about $125 million of fuel savings because we had that flexibility.
So let's keep in mind what's trying to happen in regulatory space in terms of shutting down coal in America.
Now interestingly in the fourth quarter we flipped that with very cheap gas prices.
We ran the numbers; gas generation went up to about 49%; coal flipped back to about 31%.
So going forward what do we expect? The budget for 2015 would show gas at 44% and coal at 36%.
So we'll see.
Now how does that impact kind of our appetite for gas infrastructure? I had mentioned to you all before that we could see ourselves getting involved in gas pipelines now because gas is much more kind of synergistic with the rest of our business as opposed to say where we were five six seven years ago.
One of the things we find is that there are lots of price disparities of gas transportation say from the east to west side of our system.
We've been able to evaluate a lot of opportunities.
We're seeking those out aggressively.
And I think the kind of notion would be that we would in fact be an anchor tenant to whatever we invest in.
So we are working very hard to make those things come real we'll see.
So it sounds like just given the kind of commodity environment we're in though that certainly more gas supply and becoming an anchor tenant certainly very high in your list of things you're interested in doing? Sure it is.
And we're going to be disciplined in how we invest.
And I'll tell you something else here again commenting on 111(d) to the extent that we've got to add more gas units in the future we need more infrastructure.
We are pretty well filled up right now in terms of FT which is how we cover all of our units.
So we need a competitive supply of gas we need more infrastructure and we can participate in that.
And that will be effectively additive to the kind of spending that you all are thinking about currently? That's correct.
And then just quickly on nuclear.
Just curious as you watched the progress in China especially at the Sanmen project anything to report there or is it sort of just moving along as planned? I think it's moving along.
They're resolving the valve issue there.
So I think it will not have a complete impact on kind of where we are.
So when you think about the reactor coolant pumps there have been some design issues that have manifested themselves in China.
We think those are getting dealt with satisfactorily.
We don't think that they will impact our critical paths.
At another way we're benefiting from not being the alpha plant here and we're learning from our Chinese experience.
So we have people located in China.
We follow those very closely.
We've learned from them already.
We're happy with where we are at least from our China experience.
Our next question comes from Brian Chin with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Springboarding off of Stephen's question on gas infrastructure we've seen a little bit more color on how alternative capitalization structures trade.
Just what are your latest thoughts on if you were to go into that route? Would that be considered more part of your regulated utility operations? Would you consider alternate capitalization structures for those? Just a little bit of updated thoughts there? So you guys have heard the old saying that -- I believe in the long run view of finance there's lots of tricks but there is no magic.
If there is a structure that makes sense then we'll certainly consider it.
We've never been of a fan of yieldcos.
We think those are short-term positive long-term troublesome.
If it's an MLP if there's a real tax advantage we would certainly consider those things.
But we believe that keeping a simple balance sheet and providing long-term value is really the right course of action for us but we'll consider anything.
And then one last question from me.
Could you just remind us again of the dividend policy and dividend outlook given the revised change in CapEx spending and guidance? Sure.
Of course everything I say about dividends is subject to Board approval that's their deal.
But we've been on a $0.07 trajectory for sometime now.
And we feel that having a regular predictable sustainable flow of earning per share that permits for a regular predictable and sustainable dividend policy is how you maximize value.
If you look at our TSR over any kind of longest timeframe you will see that the vast majority of TSR for us is driven by our dividend policy.
So that remains foremost in our thinking about how to grow value for shareholders.
So of course I got to be subject to everything but most importantly subject to final Board authority.
But we feel very confident in our ability to deliver sustainable dividend policy as we have in the past into the future.
Our next question comes from Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Tom or Art just wanted to clarify the 3% to 4% growth rate in EPS that you showed us off this new 2015 base was that specifically referring to 2016 over 2015 or was that a longer term growth rate? Long term.
It's kind of both but it's long-term.
What we see in our projections is that we're able to stay within that envelope pretty comfortably over a long timeframe.
I got to give you all of the admonishments about things that are unknown and everything else but for what we know right now we can stay within that envelope for a long time.
And Tom just correct me if I am wrong but I thought previously when you guys had originally given us '14 through '16 earnings guidance and then some longer-term outlook I thought the plan was given the way the spending was working the 3% to 4% was '14 through '16 and then you would accelerate beyond that but I guess that's not the case.
No no.
Here is kind of where we are.
We are kind of in the same spot.
Let's think about the years ahead here and I don't want to give too much more color other than kind of the commentary we provided in the past but if you look at kind of '15 to '16 things look pretty normal there.
'16 to '17 you have the expiration for 30% investment tax credit that could have some impact on your ability to impact earnings per share through investment tax credit investments associated with Solar.
So that could have a shaping impact.
And then beyond that we've always talked about really environmental CapEx and the start-up of new-generation CapEx all of that remains the same and that really shifts the nature of your curve.
So what we said was when you consider the impact of 111(d) which depending on how the final rule looks could have a dramatic effect of the backend CapEx curve as well as Coal Ash and 316(b) and a variety of other things.
We'll just have to see how those turn out that's all what I have been talking about.
So think of this really '15 through '18 or that time period and then in the late in the decade things change? Well certainly as we know more we'll adjust it.
What you should take comfort in as for what we know we think this is a very comfortable envelope.
Separate question.
Art if I did my math right it looked to me that your effective tax rate in '14 came in lower than previously thought.
What was driving that? And how should we think of an effective tax rate for '15 and beyond? Ali are you talking about the cash tax rate or are you talking about the accounting book effective affected tax rate? I'm talking about the book tax rate Art adjusting from Kemper charges and all of that.
If you exclude all of that the book rate looked a little lower to me.
Well I'm looking at over the last few years in total though.
You could have had some effects from Southern Power and their investment tax credits which was booked in the fourth quarter of this year.
And then you've got higher AFUDC as well which is not taxable.
But your book tax rate doesn't change very much your cash tax rate changes a lot right.
And for 2014 it looks like a little over 8% there.
Yes.
And then Tom as far as Kemper is concerned I mean you had a position now with the latest round of charges to kind of say hey if the confidence is much higher then hey I think we've got it all now under control cost-wise or still too early to make that statement? Yes Ali I've been burned in the past haven't I? Look we've got Chip Troxclair in place here and we've had very good conversations.
In fact I had the whole management council of Southern Company at Kemper about a week ago.
And I think the team is working hard.
And so yes we've got a lot of confidence especially in the schedule.
We're doing I think a better job at managing kind of the want tos in terms of CapEx as opposed to the must haves in terms of CapEx as we finish start up.
The one caveat I just have to throw out to you all that I have been consistent about from day one are the unknown unknown.
If you start the thing up something may happen that nobody thought about.
We've added more inventory to insulate ourselves against risk for machines that don't work the way they're supposed to or just defective workmanship.
The good news is when I evaluate kind of the work we've done in pressurizing [ph] trains A and B steam blows welding inspection other things we've done pretty well.
We had some hiccups here recently in some of the pulverizers and some of the lignite drying equipment but we've already provided for fixing those issues.
We're working hard to stay within the estimates we've given you.
So I'm as confident as I can be there are things that could cause us trouble in the future.
But I feel as good as I have been.
And my last question Tom when I look at the weather-normalized sales that you provide us and I looked at the four quarters of '14 this fourth quarter was the slowest over the 2014 period.
Was there anything particularly that was causing this slowdown and which you don't thing will continue in '15? Or how would you explain that? I don't get excited about quarter evaluation whenever I look at this stuff because especially on weather normal adjustment there's all sorts of variability.
I tend to look at kind of longer-term longer trends and see what's going on.
The biggest issue I think facing kind of residential and commercial sales growth is this issue of and its curses and blessings industrial strength during the downturn recall that a lot of our industrial customers retooled put in technology and in fact we've been able to grow but the efficiency of output has been terrific.
Well the good news is that's given us strength even against the weakening dollar right.
The bad news is we haven't added jobs as much as we thought we would and therefore wages haven't grown.
We think that we were starting to kind of take up that slack and we're starting to see the signals as the things Art went through that in fact jobs will return wages will increase and therefore spending will increase.
Those are the longer-term trends we see.
And don't just hang it on wages.
Remember the information Art gave you about the household income statement and how the expense item largely for energy thank goodness are going down people have more money in their pockets to spend.
Our next question comes from Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
So you talked a lot about kind of the bigger projects and what not and I appreciate the new details.
That's really helpful for us.
Just wondering more maybe on the O&amp;M trajectory that you've seen so far this year would you say that I mean if the fourth quarter haven't seen the segment breakout yet.
So would you say that you're seeing more of that in one particular OpCo or another? I mean for example as a lot of that being driven out of Alabama? Real quick.
Here again as I was talking earlier about don't go off on one quarter about consumption.
Don't go off in one quarter about O&amp;M.
Because we have this flexible O&amp;M system we had in place for years now which helps kind of attenuate our ultimate financial results.
But there is something Mark and I addressed it on an earlier question was related to the Alabama entries that roughly bumped up non-fuel O&amp;M by $100 million or so more than what we expected in the year but that occurred in the fourth quarter.
So Alabama if any of them and as I said earlier most of those were 2014 deferrals anyway so they would have occurred throughout the year had we not deferred them and then cleared them up in the year.
So what kind of a long-term O&amp;M growth rate '14 to '15? 3% to 3.5%.
3% to 3.5% that's a good trend.
I know there can be some quarterly noise.
I just wanted to clarify because it sounded like it was probably related to those regulatory things.
Just a second question I guess maybe another way of looking at some of the comments you've made already about the clean power plan.
What kind of conversations have you started particularly in Alabama and Georgia about kind of handling compliance and handling the plans that would be necessary should it survive in this current state or how to I guess approach proposals? Look Mark thanks for kind of raising that.
We haven't really talked about that.
You know that we work in a real-time fashion with the folks in our states.
We have a common purpose and that is to serve the customers and communities with clean safer liable affordable power.
And I know that certain initiatives out of EPA or elsewhere get high focus on certain issues particularly 111(d) would be carbon.
We have to balance those results.
For the benefit of this I don't think there can be more privilege to serve.
When I think about where EPA is 111(d) we know and I think they know that they have a flawed proposed rule.
And they've received now I forget what the number is over 4 million comments or something it's unbelievable.
But they're going to have to I think deal with some of the low hanging fruit if you will in the final rule.
I am guessing we do get a final rule some time in the summer time maybe call it August.
And I think they will deal with some resolution on this kind of cliff 2020 date.
I think they will also fix things like nuclear and particularly nuclear under construction.
So look I think it's almost premature to comment kind of where we think they'll end up.
We've had lots of opportunities to talk to them so has everybody else 32 states have come after them in terms of comments attorney general governors public service commissions.
I think there is a lot of ground to cover before we have a final rule.
Let's see what the final rule looks like and then the ball will be in the court of the states in order to implement their state implementation plan.
Our next question comes from Michael Weinstein with UBS.
Well it's Julien here.
So I wanted to follow back up here quickly on Southern Power going rewinding back to the start of the call there.
The $180 million midpoint you talked about I think for '15 how much of the ITC benefit is baked in there? And by the way the kind of the second part of that question is really you talked about the '16 to 17' exploration what kind of an impact do you think that is in terms of a headwind if you kind of lose those benefits for new projects? I know it's a little detailed.
I'm going to guess that kind of the benefits from ITC and don't get too precise on the $180 million that planning estimate it's very lumpy.
But the specific question was what's the assumption in the midpoint? It's $180 million.
The contribution from ITC is probably over $40 million.
So that's what you should think of.
But then it probably falls off pretty materially in '16.
So the roll off by '17 is -- So '16 is probably okay.
It will probably be a similar number perhaps even more depending -- so you have a project that comes in you think it's going to come in at December of '15 slides into '16.
So it really is lumpy and dependent upon when you close these deals and when they go in service.
So '17 you should kind of estimate that as ITC drops from 30% to a 10% kind of number under current tax law then you should shave off some percentage.
So let's say two-thirds of $40 million to $50 million number just in rough math right.
So that's the kind of math I would use if I were you.
That would be the earnings per share headwinds.
And I'm talking specifically about solar right now.
To the extent we invest in wind it has a different profile.
To the extent some of our CapEx is associated with gas pipeline that has a different profile.
So I'm attaching all of that on solar.
I was going to ask you I mean more holistically what do you think about solar spend in general? I mean the Southeast has seen a lot of projects but we haven't heard much on you guys from Florida or Alabama.
I mean is there a potential there I mean either via the utility themselves or via Southern Power? I mean is this something you could see more spend in '16 or is it tricky to see that happen just given the timeline and the 30% ITC or et cetera? I frankly would expect to see more of the solar outside the Southeast.
There may be more opportunities.
But when we originally got into solar we really started looking at where the solar resources were the best right.
The Southeast tend to be kind of cloudy.
It has high humidity.
It's not the best area for solar even though there has been a lot of movement in the state of Georgia.
Recall Georgia Power was voted the Investor-Owned Utility of the Year last year by the solar industry.
So we're going to continue to look wherever I think the resources are best where the contracts are the best.
A particular area of emphasis for us also has been with the DoD the Department of Defense.
We've announced several base solar deals in Georgia and I think we've announced one in Gulf and then we'll see about other bases elsewhere in the Southeast.
So look for that.
Now let me turn my attention just a little differently here.
The gas infrastructure that you alluded to earlier is that under Southern Power as well? And when we find out details about that I mean I imagined that's probably tied to your talk earlier about carbon rules and finalization and ultimately what kind of coal to gas switching we really are going to see in the Southeast is that kind of a good way to think about it? Julien whatever you did to Michael is kind of what I'll have to say about gas pipelines.
I don't want to reveal the nature of discussions on any gas pipelines at this point.
But the specific question you asked about kind of would it be under Southern Power I wouldn't be surprised that we put it in another sub besides Southern Power.
That's really kind of a governance question.
And then lastly let's turn it back to Kemper quickly.
You kind of alluded to potentially hashing out of deal in the state again.
And I know you don't want to touch it too much but what's the timeline there? Because I know we've talked about before having a deal and then it seems like that slid a little bit just given the timeline of the project it slid.
When could we see something come to resolution there if you will and what is it relate to specifically? Is this the first half prudency review that you guys are going to try to hash out? And again I don't mean the pry too much.
Julien what we've talked about in the past is kind of a grand settlement where we've ramped to get all of the kind of issues that relate to Mississippi Power.
And for host of reasons I know you understand we don't want to say too much about that.
We would like to see those issues resolved sooner rather than later.
So let's just leave it there if we could.
I appreciate your indulgence.
And one other comment I just want to make we talked about other subs other subs could be OpCos for gas infrastructure.
The utility OpCos? Yes.
Just depending on opportunity.
Our next question comes from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
I want to follow-up on a comment you made regarding the consortium and potential conflicts among the contractors as to who is suppose to cover what.
And I was wondering if you could just elaborate a little bit more on that? What I would prefer that you do is go to their own statement.
CBI has been reasonably public about these things.
These are my words not theirs.
With respect to the contract they have essentially I call it intercreditor agreement but it's an agreement to share the cost and benefits of the contract among and between ourselves.
And I think there are some financial disputes between the two of them.
And we believe anyway that those disputes have some bearing on this unmitigated schedule we got.
That actually leads me to my sort of second question which is if one of the contractors I know this is kind of little extreme but let's say one of the contractors is unable to fulfill the obligations.
Are the other contractors obligated? Is there a surety bond? Is there any protection I guess? Yes.
The major mechanism you should look for in contract is the guarantee the corporate guarantee of Toshiba for the financial integrity of the obligations of the participants as contractor.
And then finally with respect to the sales growth.
Just to sort of follow-up on Dan's question the numbers have been coming in a lot less than what you guys have expected in the past.
And you do mentioned sort of some of the things the oil prices and what have you in some of the developments that are happening there that you think will be -- that will improve the situation I guess going forward.
I know you guys analyze this very closely.
Have you guys reappraised what you think long-term customer usage will be efficiency deployment what have you? Is there any because the numbers do seem to have come in just historically a lot lower.
And I am just wondering if you guys have any sort of new ideas or any differing ideas as to what you've had in the past about what's going on with -- Let me just kind of pick at that a little.
Our plan was set last year at 0.7% sales growth and we actually had 0.9%.
The difference was the fact that industrial was a blockbuster year at 3.3% relative to weather normal flat elsewhere.
Paul it's a long-term sales growth number.
Total retail sales are going to be in the 1.2 percentage range.
Now whether that's a reassessment or not that's kind of our current look long-term.
I don't know that it would be termed a reassessment of that but it's probably lower than it was five seven years ago.
But a couple of other things you need to think about is in-migration into the states we continue to see that.
And to give you a little more land gap around that if we look at things like United Van Lines has ranks their top 10 states for inbound moves; Georgia and Florida are number eight and number two respectively.
We've seen most of our customer growth in those particular regions 1.1% customer growth in both Gulf and Georgia over the last year.
And if you recall during the recession in-migration grows up.
That's correct.
But we think that was our housing related.
Now that housing is freeing up we're seeing the migration again.
So say reflection of yes is it a turning point? We certainly hope so but it's based on the evidence not just a bunch of drawn lines and hopes and wishes.
The other thing that I think I would point to is the information that we have been traveling under is kind of similar to what the Fed has been traveling under.
The Fed has called for some higher GDPs and actually show up and where the softness is and their projection has been in household wealth creation just as we talked about.
So as we improve that I think our overall picture will improve.
Our next question comes from Dan Jenkins with State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
So I just had a couple of clarifications related to the construction projects.
First on Kemper I think you had mentioned on your slide that the next set of milestones are the gasifier first fire and I think case of that's going to be in March.
But I was wondering on the gasifier airflow testing what the timing is of that milestone? Yes.
We are currently in the process of that but we still look at three main milestones here: first fire to the gasifier is it going to be this frame; the first syngas production which is the second milestone I would point to is sometime this summer; and then in the late summer and fall we expect to have reliable syngas to each combustion turbine.
Those are the three milestones that we would rather point to than the micro milestones of what you mentioned the airflows.
Those are sub-processes to the major milestone that I am pointing to.
And in fact Dan what we've been doing so far and that's what I'm trying to gratified with the tests that we've done so far they have gone reasonably well have been testing the financial integrity of the construction and it's gone very well.
And what did you say again was the timeline for the production of the turbine? Reliable syngas it was for one turbine its late summer and for the second its fall this year.
And then looking at your Slides 5 and 6 I just want to make sure I am understanding this right.
I think you mentioned in your opening remarks that for Unit 3 the CA01 set is going to be in the spring.
That's not in the picture I don't think on Slide 6.
Yes.
That one is not in the picture.
But then that is a near-term thing in the spring pretty much as that CA01 set? Yes.
So the spring could go I mean theoretically it's April May June.
That's kind of what we are looking for on CA01.
And then in your third quarter slide you had some talk on core on horizon the CA20 which I think if I am not mistaken that's what the green one is on Unit 3 right in the picture? Yes that's correct.
So when is that supposed to be set for Unit 4 the CA20? Dan if I could here instead of getting specifics here if I could ask you on we just got this new integrated project schedule and there maybe some impacts for the longer term issue.
That's why we stuck with near-term here and kind of very near-term.
The longer term issues could be impacted by the resolution of the schedule.
And so we're going to have to be a little -- I don't know a little vague until we probably get the VCM 12.
VCM 12 that we filed later this month and then will kind of discuss throughout the spring.
We'll have much more detail there for you.
I think we'll be in a much better position to estimate those kinds of issues.
I guess what you're saying you want to retain some flexibility around that based on -- That's right.
Thank you for that.
And then just you talked about the fact that there's this unmitigated proposal by the contractors but what do you as some of the potential mitigation efforts that they have I guess look forward so far that you think would give us some confidence that the schedule could be shorter than these 18 months? Dan here again I got to ask your patience.
Let us go through what they've given us.
We've received assurances by executive management of the contractors in 2014.
We have our own ability to adjust.
We have our own scheduled progress to date.
There is a host of issues here that cause the foundation for our belief to be that there is something we could do and that the contractors aren't exercising.
All of their obligations is required under the contract.
But let us get to the end of this discussion with contractors before I open up what the number may be.
Our final question comes from Ashar Khan with Visium.
I guess most of my questions are answered but Tom I guess I keep asking the strategy question.
Because when you were the CFO the risk adjusted was kind of the corner stone.
And so as you in the board look into investing in Solar what it has induced is now a higher range on the earnings availability which further adds to the volatility of kind of a risk-free investment as there used to be.
And I am just trying to understand why that is happening? I got you absolutely.
There is kind of a glib answer and there is kind of a deeper answer.
The deeper answer is you know having known me for gosh over 10 years or whatever it is a long time that I have been a deep proponent of the notion that value as a function of risk and return.
And when we think about our business model we always seek to achieve the best risk adjusted returns.
When you look at the value driven by our franchise which is the overwhelming delivery of value to Southern the franchise is as good as it's ever been.
And I feel terrific about the state of the franchise.
When I go to the opportunity that is in front of us with particularly Solar that opportunity is driven by kind of the initiatives that we have seen.
When we originally dabbled our foot in water on Solar we thought it might be applicable in the Southeast.
Sure enough it was and so we started slow and gained some momentum and in fact Georgia has turned out to be a big participant in the solar market.
Along the way particularly last year we were surprised by the fact that a lot of people were really looking to Southern because we had scale.
We had a tax appetite.
We are a great partner.
We understand technology.
And I had mentioned before First Solar is kind of in that realm.
The only risk that we seek that adds to kind of our corporate data if you will is just the lumpiness of the investment not the technology of the investment.
And we think the degree of investing is achievable so while you may see some spread over time we think we'll be able to hit the numbers that we put out there.
The final comment you all know that I've never been enormous fan of tax advantage investing.
Certainly the ITC profile is something that's attractive.
We think we had tax appetite to be able to consume those tax benefits in a timely manner.
And remember too that one of the coincident benefits of that kind of investing has been the very strong cash flow compared to our EBITDA in the long run.
So as we see ourselves moving through time where we're slowing down our CapEx from a corporate standpoint particularly the operating companies we're finishing up a construction cycle the fact that these opportunities avail themselves the fact that they help earnings the fact that they improve cash flow the fact that long-term we believe there is very low technology risk and we're dealing with very credible partners we think maintains this very attractive risk adjusted profile.
Recall too at the end of the day the foundation of our investment is based on our ability to deliver long-term dividend growth.
I think we finished our in 2014 with a payout ratio around 74%.
We've been able to perform.
The other thing that we said I think in October and I always get my calls confused but we're one of I think two companies in the industry that over the last 10 years somewhere in there has been able to produce within our earnings range every year 100% at the time.
For all my purposes I can't guarantee that going forward but at least our track record is exemplary.
And I think when you think about management teams around the system around the industry when you think about business models around the industry I think Southern Company is a company that's going to continue to deliver that performance in my opinion for a long time.
I totally agree with your later points but it just creates Thomas we used to write there used to be I forget what those terms used to be called the synfuel tax credit earnings which Congress used to have and everything.
These are now ITC earnings now coming into utilities of things I think there is a differentiation of quality of earnings going down? Yes.
But Ashar I would really differentiate and we should take this offline just for the benefit of everybody else on the call but we should really differentiate synfuel from ITC.
There is an enormous industry for solar.
It's pretty clear that not only the administration but Congress is in favor of promoting tax code that helps renewables.
That's very different than synfuel.
And I feel very confident about the ability to sustain these tax credits and how they will improve our cash flow and really helps Southern and therefore our shareholders for years to come.
I really would think about those differently.
And at this time there are no further questions.
Sir are there any closing remarks? End of Q&amp;A Yes.
Thank you.
Once again thank you all for joining us.
We really enjoy these times together.
I am really delighted with the results that we've been able to show in '14.
When I was just talking with Ashar about the value of the franchise when you look at the foundation that is Southern Company it is as good today as it has ever been in my memory.
And I think we can continue to produce the kind of results that have tremendous value to our customers and our shareholders.
We are taking advantage of other opportunities in the market in solar and other areas and we're seeking to add to that platform of value creation.
So thank you for your time today.
We will continue relentlessly to meet the challenges and provide the best opportunity available as an investment to you all.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the Southern Company's fourth quarter 2014 earnings call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon my name is José and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Southern Company's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background notice.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Dan Tucker Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Planning.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you José.
Welcome everyone to Southern Company's first quarter 2015 earnings call.
Joining me this afternoon are Tom Fanning Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Company; and Art Beattie Chief Financial Officer.
Let me remind you that we will make forward-looking statements today in addition to providing historical information.
Various important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements including those discussed in our Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
In addition we will present non-GAAP financial information on this call.
Reconciliations to the applicable GAAP measure are included in the financial information we've released this morning as well as the slides for this conference call.
The slides we will discuss during today's call can be viewed on our Investor Relations Web site at investor.southerncompany.com.
At this time I'll turn the call over to Tom Fanning.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
Many of you've heard me speak before about the full portfolio and its significance to Southern Company and to our industry as a whole simply put we are inventing the future of clean safe reliable and affordable energy for the benefit of the customers and communities we serve.
Our full portfolio strategy which includes new nuclear and innovative new technologies for 21st century coal as well as natural gas renewable and energy efficiency is a fundamental component of that mission.
I would like to take a few moments to highlight how this all of the above approach continues to be beneficial to customers and to discuss several projects helping to shape the full portfolio for the future.
To begin with our diverse generation fleet enables us to quickly adapt to constantly changing market conditions with the ability to utilize the most cost efficient generation resources at any particular point in time.
When natural gas prices are low for example we are able to take advantage by burning more natural gas and less coal.
Such was the case in the first quarter of this year gas energy climbed to 48% of our energy production.
Our use of coal for the quarter was the lowest in several decades falling to 32% of our energy mix.
And as a hallmark of our integrated business model we passed those savings along to our customers.
Natural gas of course will continue to be a dominant solution.
Recently our gas consumption was about 1.5 Bcf per day.
This year it could approach 1.9 Bcf per day and by 2020 the amount could be as much as 2.3 Bcf per day.
But natural gas is not a panacea as we cannot assume that current prices will endure indefinitely.
We must therefore continue to pursue the development of a truly diverse generation portfolio one that provides the necessary optionality and flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions.
In addition to natural gas 21st century coal and new nuclear we are rapidly building out our energy portfolio with renewables including solar and wind.
With that in mind I would like to take a more detailed look at how we’ve expanded our renewable resources in recent months.
Four Southern Company subsidiaries recently marked major milestones in the strategic expansion of one of the nation's largest renewable energy portfolios through the announced development or acquisition of large scale solar projects.
Gulf Power and Mississippi Power recently announced power purchase agreements with solar facilities totaling 173 megawatts that are currently being developed on military bases in their respective states.
Georgia Power broke ground at Fort Benning the first of four 30 megawatt retail rate based solar project in development with the U.S.
Department of Defense.
And there is more likely to come.
In February our Southern Power subsidiary announced the acquisition of two solar projects totaling 99 megawatts in Georgia the 80 megawatt Decatur Parkway solar project and the 19 megawatt Decatur County solar project and most recently Southern Power announced the acquisition of a controlling interest in the 32 megawatt Lost Hills-Blackwell Solar facility in California from First Solar.
Also in March Southern Power announced an agreement to acquire the 299 megawatt Kay Wind Facility currently under construction in Oklahoma.
This acquisition is expected to close in late 2015 upon successful completion of the project.
Kay Wind will be the largest renewable electric generation plant in the Southern Company system and the first wind facility we will own.
Upon completion of these projects that Southern Company system expects own or purchase the output of more than 3 100 megawatts of renewable resources system wide including 44 solar facilities in seven states.
Let's now discuss our two large construction projects which are equally important to our full portfolio of generation resources.
Our new nuclear project plant Vogtle units 3 and 4 and our 21st century coal facility in Kemper County Mississippi featuring coal gasification technology developed by our researchers in partnership with KBR and the Department Of Energy.
Both of these projects stem from state specific resource planning processes that value generation diversity including the hedge that these new resources represent again potential Carbon Dioxide regulations in the future.
First an update on plant Vogtle units 3 and 4.
The primary focus of the project continues to be on quality and safety.
Georgia Power has maintained an exceptional safety record for a construction project of this size which currently has over 5 000 people on site.
During the first quarter our outstanding safety culture manifested itself as we performed over 1 million safe work hours without a recordable injury.
The quality oversight from our nuclear team continues to be invaluable.
This is a complex project with numerous challenges.
We are proud of how well our processes and controls are holding up to the inspections of both the NRC inspectors and Georgia Power’s regulator.
More importantly our own rigorous oversight is being manifested in the quality of the facility.
The new Vogtle units are being built to serve Georgia customers for 60 plus years and the oversight in place today should help ensure that these units will function at a high level for decades to come.
Construction activities are tracking closely with the revised schedule provided by the contractors in January.
The greatest risk to the schedule for both units continues to be in the timely delivery of structural sub modules.
I’m pleased to report that the quality at the Lake Charles facility has improved and we no longer expect sub modules from that facility to require remediation on site before being released for assembly.
We anticipate continued delivery of panels throughout the year from Lake Charles and we’ve been informed that the scope of work may be expanding there.
Critical path remains closely aligned with delivery and installation of panels for the shield building.
These panels are fabricated by Newport News Industrial and quality has been good.
Acceleration of work at NNI along with improving the panel installation process represents one of our best opportunities to improve on the schedule provided by the contractors.
Critical path runs somewhat parallel with activities inside the containment vessel.
The CA01 module is one of the major next step inside this area of nuclear island.
The final concrete pours necessary to install CA01 were completed late last week.
CA01 is now projected to be lifted into place early in the third quarter of this year.
A number of you have visited the site in person and the progress is obvious.
While the entire project is proceeding well the Unit 3 Annex Building is an area of noteworthy progress.
The Annex Building is necessary for the initial energization of the control systems for Unit 3 an important early step in the startup process.
The concrete foundations and structural steel for this facility are well underway.
And in late February the first of 34 wall sub modules for the Unit 4 CA20 module was [up ended] [ph] marking the start of the assembly process.
On the regulatory front $198 million in expenditures submitted in the 11th Vogtle construction monitoring report were unanimously approved on February 19th with a cumulative amount approved to date of $2.8 billion.
Additionally the procedural and scheduling order for the 12th Vogtle construction monitoring report was approved on April 7th consistent with the long standing Georgia Law the order reaffirmed that neither the project certified cost nor the VCM 8 stipulation in 2013 constitute a cost recovery cap.
Georgia Power will be allowed recovery of all reasonable and prudent start up costs up to and above the certified amount and we believe the semi-annual VCM process including the testimony of the independent monitor continues to build a record that has thoroughly documented Georgia Power’s prudent management of the project.
The order also establishes a schedule for filings and hearings on our request of the commission to verify and improve $169 million in expenditures for the second half of 2014.
Georgia Power expects to file direct testimony on Friday hearings are scheduled to begin on June 2nd and we anticipate a decision in mid-August.
A full schedule is included in our slide deck.
Now let’s turn to an update on the Kemper County IGCC project.
The Kemper project also boasts a terrific safety record.
With now over 2 500 workers on site no safety incidents occurred during the first quarter.
In early March we completed the first firing with natural gas of the facility’s gasifier burners a significant milestone.
We continue to make tremendous progress on our other start up activities as we look ahead to the first synthesis gas production plan now for third quarter.
In the mean time the combined cycle at Kemper continues to perform exceptionally well with the first quarter equivalent force outage rate of less than 1% and a capacity factor in line with the rest of our combined cycle fleet.
Turning to the legal and regulatory fronts the Mississippi Supreme Court's order which deemed that the 2013 Kemper settlement unenforceable and reversed the subsequent rate order has been met with vocal composition from state wide industry groups business organizations the state economic council and members of the public utility staff and commission as well as other public entities through amicus briefs filed with the Mississippi Supreme Court.
Most of the briefs emphasize that the rate plan agreed to in 2013 was of great benefit to the customers of Mississippi power and then a traditional rate case could mean rate impacts approaching 40% for some customers.
This compared to the 25% rate increase contemplated in the original settlement 18% of which is already in place.
While we wait the Court's decision on rehearing we will continue to work towards a reasonable comprehensive settlement with the public utility staff.
However as a possible alternative to a settlement we are also preparing to file a rate case by mid May.
With the completion of the project and site we want to ensure that the rate recovery is adequately addressed in a timely manner.
I'll now turn the call over to Art for a financial and economic overview.
Thanks Tom.
As you can see from the materials we released this morning we had solid results for the first quarter of 2015 reporting earnings of 508 million or 0.56 per share compared with earnings of 351 million or 0.39 per share in the first quarter of last year.
First quarter results for 2015 include a $6 million after tax charge related to an increased construction estimate for Mississippi Power's Kemper integrated gasification combined cycle project.
The first quarter results for 2014 included a $235 million after-tax charge for the Kemper IGCC project or $0.27 per share.
Excluding these items Southern Company earned $514 million or 0.56 per share during the first quarter of 2015 compared to $586 million or $0.66 per share in the first quarter of 2014.
Earnings for the first quarter of 2015 were in line with our expectations and were positively influenced by retail revenue effects at Southern Company’s traditional operating companies offset by milder winter weather than in 2014 and increased operating and maintenance expenses.
Moving now to an economic and sales review for the first quarter.
Economic growth in the first quarter of 2015 was modest but our retail sales across all customer classes are encouraging.
Total weather adjusted retail sales grew 1% in the first quarter lead by industrial sales which were up 2%.
We have now enjoyed eight consecutive quarters of positive year-over-year industrial sales growth in our region.
Industrial sales growth remained broad based across eight of our largest 10 industrial segments.
The strongest industrial segments include petroleum up 10% stone clay and glass up 6% due to improvements in the housing market.
Transportation improved 5% as automotive manufacturers expanded output.
Weather adjusted residential sales were slightly positive for the first quarter of 2015 primarily due to strong customer growth of nearly 16 000 a 55% increase over the approximate 10 000 new customers gained in the first quarter of 2014.
Weather adjusted commercial sales were up 0.7% for the quarter office vacancy rates continue to show signs of improvement and more office retail projects are being announced.
Currently more than 1.9 million square feet of office space is under construction in Metro Atlanta in addition a number of new Atlanta projects are expected to begin construction soon including the Mercedes Benz headquarters.
According to U.S.
Bureau of Labor statistics non-farm employment increased in all of the states of our retail service territory between February of 2014 and February of 2015.
Nationally Georgia ranked number five among all states for job growth and Atlanta was ranked among the top five metro areas.
Meanwhile our economic development pipeline remains robust with more than 300 potential projects representing 37 000 potential new jobs and over $34 billion in potential capital investment.
The climate for business and investment remains strong in our service region.
Alabama and Georgia were recently ranked number one and number four respectively amongst states in which to do business by Site Selection magazine.
Turning briefly back to Southern Power as Tom mentioned in his opening remarks Southern Power continues to find new projects that meet its investment criteria.
In our fourth quarter call in early February we outlined two categories for Southern Power’s CapEx projections base CapEx and placeholder CapEx for growth.
Base CapEx includes projects we have identified as likely even though we may not have reached final terms or received all regulatory approvals.
In February our base CapEx included among others the Kay Wind and Decatur projects Tom mentioned earlier.
Since then Southern Power has identified a number of additional projects for 2015 and 2016.
As a result we are shifting dollars out of the placeholder category and into base CapEx for Southern Power.
The result is that we have accounted for all of our original 2015 placeholders and have moved 100 million from the placeholder to base in 2016.
With our 2015 success thus far and the long runway between now and the end of 2016 we are confident about our ability to find plan solid projects to account for our remaining 2016 placeholders.
Before turning the call back to Tom let me cover two final items.
First our earnings estimate for the second quarter which is 0.69 per share.
Secondly I'd like to highlight dividend announcements last week.
Our Board of Directors approved a $0.7 increase in our common dividend to an annualized rate of $2.17 per share.
This is our 14th consecutive annual increase and marks 270 consecutive quarters dating back to 1948 that Southern Company will have paid a dividend equal to or greater than the previous quarter to its shareholders.
Over the past decades our dividend has accounted for nearly 70% of our total shareholder return.
It is the corner stone of our value proposition and the board's decision of last week reinforces its confidence in the strength of our long-term financial plan.
I will now turn the call back over to Tom for his closing remarks.
Thanks Art.
After a successful year in 2014 Southern Company has entered the New Year with strong momentum.
We see a franchise business that is operating better than ever solidifying its position as an industry-leader in all phases of the business.
We see important progress on major capital projects and we continue excel with our customer focused business model.
We also see a strengthening economy and a region poised to grow in the months and years ahead.
In short we believe Southern Company is well-positioned to succeed in 2015 and in the years ahead behind the strength of our 26 000 employees and their commitment to provide clean safe reliable and affordable energy to the customers and communities we serve.
Southern Company is keenly focused on remaining an industry leader for the long-term and forward thinking decisions with regard to our generating portfolio a key aspect of that effort.
But the evolution of our business does not stop there we recently announced the launch of a energy innovation center to be located in Atlanta's Technology Square while we remain stead fast in our commitment to excel the fundamentals of making moving and selling and consuming electricity.
We also understand that the way in which customers use energy may change over time.
The energy innovation centers is just one way in which we are working to anticipate the future and lead the way with the development of new energy innovation.
Going forward we will continue to build on our long history of inventing the future by relying on the thinking of our entire work force and with potential such as [Meth] and other major established and new entrants to the energy industry.
Initial possibilities involve expanding the motion of energy infrastructure to assets beyond the meter un-manned aerial vehicles hydrogen production from underutilized generating facilities and desalination plants.
As Art indicated earlier the strength of our underlying franchise as well as our continued focus on remaining an industry leader through innovation underpin the Board's decision last week to increase our dividend which supports our objective of providing superior risk adjusted total shareholder return to investors over the long-term.
We are now ready to take your questions.
Operator we will now take the first question.
Thank you sir.
[Operator Instructions].
And our first question comes from the line of Greg Gordon from Evercore ISI.
Please proceed with your question.
So what is the legal path in Mississippi today that either gets you back to a settled rate deal or puts you in a formal rate case filing? What are the different paths that get us back into a settled low rate hike or just into a rate filing in May? Just as we described there is two paths one is we’ve been having as you all know prolong series of discussion with the staff we continue to think they’re constructive.
I think the result of a settlement could in essence preserve and form the rate structure that we put in place in 2013.
Failing to reach a settlement we will file a rate increase in a conventional rate case.
It is conceivable you could file the rate case and file the settlement at the same time.
But those are the two paths.
But the Supreme Court’s decision has essentially closed off the creative approach you used to prefunding the capital prospects or is that not the case? No that’s not the case.
The settlement would essentially preserve the structure which would mimic what was approved in 2013.
Second question is on your continued expansion of renewables platform when we look at - so essentially the announcement of this wind project acquisition it fills in some of the sort of notional space in your Southern Power CapEx budget? That’s right.
It’s not incremental to the budget that you’ve already articulated to us? It’s part of the – yes it was in the base already.
And what we’ve done is I think the change here it’s on the graph we showed is that we essentially have spoken for all the placeholders in '15 so we’re very confident of hitting our numbers for Southern Power in '15.
And then how much of your total CapEx in '16 at Southern Power is currently sort of money projects that are definitely going forward versus placeholders or that’s on page 12.
I think it's 400 million.
And could you articulate -- sorry go ahead.
We feel really good about hitting our placeholders in '16 also but we’re not as the stage we're ready to declare those as part of base.
We’ve improved it by 100 million.
And then is there what you can articulate what you think the earnings contribution is going to be from the Kay Wind facility when it comes in? The Kay Wind facility the benefits are not investment tax credits they’re production tax credits.
So I don’t recall the '16 benefit but it should not benefit '15 at all it will be a '16 addition.
It will be a little over $0.01 a year something like that for whatever… And when is the next milestone if we have a firm milestone? This is my last question.
Your conversations with your EP&amp;C contractors Vogtle with regard to the delay they announced in service date.
So we continue to have constructive discussions there.
One of the things I think we tried to highlight in the initial remarks it that we can see our way through to some ways to improve the schedule that the contractors have delivered to us.
We’ve been pretty clear about that in our disclosures.
So we continue to work with them and we’re trying to find ways to reach an amicable kind of resolution to that.
And is there a sort of definitive milestone to look forward there in terms of drop dead date or…? Not really.
The ultimate conclusion would be litigation in the City of Augusta Georgia.
And our next question comes from the line of James von Riesemann from Mizuho.
Please proceed with your question.
I have two questions for you so the first question is can you guys provide a little bit more color on this continuing disconnect between the 3% GDP growth in the service territory and yet 0.2% residential growth? Jim our expectation was for the year about 3% GDP growth that was underlying our forecast of low growth this year of the 1.3%.
We’ve had a very strong economy here in the Southeast I think our numbers and results reflect that as we outlined in the scripts that’s driven by the industrial sales growth.
But we’re beginning to see movement on the residential and the commercial land as well this is the first quarter in about four years where we’ve had positive growth in all three customer classes.
So we think it’s broad based and if we look at employment growth both in the manufacturing sector and in other sectors it’s beating the national numbers.
So the economy in the southeast has been a bit stronger in our view than what we’re seeing on the 0.2%.
Yes at a risk of falling into fed speak too there is fascinating development and some of the things we’re seeing are better than but in some ways mimic what we’re seeing nationally.
Better than clearly in the industrial growth sector even surprising to us how strong it is.
And even probably better than what we’re showing we think that chemicals for example was slightly negative but those were outages.
So we expect to see chemicals rebound and recall a continuing theme has been segments which are dependent upon natural gas well those are going to be really strong we think for the rest of the year.
The only kind of cloud on the horizon there primary metals and we think that’s kind of strong dollar strong imports low oil prices and therefore metal associated with the pipeline is probably slowing down a bit.
But one the things that I think is really interesting that Art alluded to on the residential sector we are starting to see a pickup in household wealth formation it’s pretty modest but still a pickup.
Interestingly the fed guys are concerned by that in that it looks like they are not consuming this pick up in either the top line revenue or a reduction in cost like lower gasoline prices they are saving it.
We are within kind of an historical range of savings rates so it’s not particularly troubling to me.
And frankly if households are reducing debt or investing or even just putting money in a checking account for now at least they are less exposed they are more resilient to future economic dislocations.
So it’s not all bad value is a function of risk and return and GDP growth is return increased savings rates is improvement in risk.
So it’s not all bad and when you consider that the United States GDP was 0.2% growth in the first quarter you look at our numbers clearly better.
We feel pretty good about our prospects going forward.
So the answer to the question on the growth and the improvement leads me into my next question.
So if I look at your trailing 12 months on a weather normalized basis you are 276 but if I remember correctly at the end of the – in conjunction with the fourth quarter call you had 276 to 288 which are your expectations for the year? How do you get to the upper end of that band or even the middle end of that band given that trailing 12 is at the very bottom? Improvement at Southern Power is an easy way.
Good weather better than expected economic outcomes.
Okay.
And then just on - there is nothing else that I am missing am I? I don’t think so.
No if you remember too one of things I think we said this before Art was the lower end of our range was down by Southern Power not filling in its complement of CapEx it kind of lived with the base scenario.
We think we’re there for 2015 and potentially could even improve.
And our next question comes from the line of Brian Chin from Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Just a quick one the long-term EPS CAGR slide isn’t in the deck are we just to assume that it’s still 3% to 4% longer term? Yes.
We only adjust that kind of once a year right.
We come out every January and we give guidance for the year on our long-term growth estimate and then we only update that in our October call once we’ve gotten through the big earnings month in the summer.
And our next question comes from the line of Mark Barnett from Morningstar Equity Research.
Please proceed with your question.
A couple of questions here one sort of bigger picture you gave a little bit of detail around what you’re seeing in the commercial sector and obviously from a usage perspective it’s lag a little bit but we have a nice pick up here in the quarter.
I’m wondering is this about the level of improvement that you’ve taken for expectations in your guidance here.
Actually we’re looking for a little more improvement.
The expectations for the year in terms of segments.
Like 1.4 on commercial about one on residential and 1.7 on industrial so we’re bit ahead of our industrial numbers.
We're still about a little way to go on commercial.
Yes 1.3 for the year total.
Right sorry that number is 1.4% on commercial that’s the level that's been in your guidance.
And then year-over-year obviously base business growth driving a lot of that OpEx I’m sure is this level kind of the year-over-year increase sort of a guide for the remainder of the year and you have lot of flexibility there.
Flexibility on CapEx is going to go to Southern Power….
The first quarter was a bit of an anomaly you may remember Mark that first quarter of last year we deferred a lot of the expenses at Alabama Power they were non-nuclear outage costs under an accounting order that they were operating under last year.
And then also if you look at year-over-year there were more megawatts out this year across the system than it were last year.
So there are more outage costs this year.
And then you just got normal growth for the rest that's a big piece of it is well.
So if we look at what we expect for the year I still think my guidance from the last call was about 3% to 3.5% growth in non-fuel O&amp;M for the year still applies and the first quarter is just kind of an outlier that will correct itself through the year.
And when we came up with the $0.55 estimate for the first quarter almost exactly expected this levels O&amp;M.
Thanks for the reminder it has been a long day if somebody mentioned earlier.
Last question can you just remind me if Governor Dean has signed the new solar bill HP37.
And generally what you expect to see as a result in terms of maybe your own programs or offerings in the state? He has not signed it to our knowledge but I can tell you all this is very consistent with our plan I have always tried to position the company as given whatever business circumstances exist for us to find ways to play often.
And to the extent distributor generations becomes important to the customers to this state it is the clear mission of our businesses to provide that service and those assets to our customers.
So we fully support any development with respect to distributed generation whether that's rooftop solar or some ideas that they were storage or community solar or financing or anything else.
Now whether we do that ourselves or do it through third parties our job is to find ways to succeed in this changing business environment.
And I think we're demonstrating that in a superb way.
And our next question comes from the line of Anthony Crowdell from Jefferies.
Please proceed with your question.
I just want to follow up on Mr.
Gordon goes to Washington's question and Mississippi.
Just it seem that there is a disconnect there when you look at that the two road maps you have over conventional rate case for the 30% to 40% rate increase or I'm not sure if you use this term but maybe a glide path or some type of nice trajectory of rate increases.
It would seem like a no brainer if you were a regulator or you are running the intervene parties.
Could you maybe highlight what that disconnect is and maybe handicap what you think to chances are of a potential settlement in Mississippi? Anthony the only thing I can tell you I don't want to characterize the decision that's kind of in front of these folks but if you look at the broad based support that the company has enjoyed to ask the Supreme Court to reconsider their decision in the amicus briefs including the task to me it is an obvious decision that benefits the citizens of Mississippi to pursue the settlement or at least restore what the Supreme Court validated in its recent order either one of those is I think in a broad sense the obvious way to go in the state.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Weinstein from UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
First question is about pipeline to midstream opportunities wondering if you are still considering going forward with that and how serious is that consideration? Yes here's some fascinating supporting data.
We're actually looking at several opportunities and active discussions will see how that goes.
When you think about it before I came into this role we were consuming coal 70% of our energy came from coal and then 15% from natural gas.
When you look at recent history 1.5 bcf per day now this year may be as high as 1.9 and depending on what happens with 111 (d) and a variety of other things that per day gas consumption can average somewhere around 2.3 bcf per day.
So when you think about the attractiveness of Southern Company being one of the nation's largest consumers of natural gas our value as a kind of key tenant to any of the infrastructure that needs to be build out to meet that kind of demand really gives us some opportunities to pursue a variety of investments and we're all over with that stuff so we'll see what happens.
How about gas reserves and rate base? This goes way back even when I was CFO and COO so we’re talking now 10 years ago we’ve been kind of kicking that around.
And back then we weren't consuming that much natural gas and it wasn’t as important.
But certainly it’s an idea that has merits and as natural gas becomes more important to us especially given its volatility relative to other fuel stocks we we'll certainly keep that on the front burner of ideas.
In any case we would not want to take price risk on molecules in the ground this would all fuel clause related issue.
One other question about nuclear.
We’ve heard recently from Commissioner Echols that he sees the need for another two units beyond the current and that it depends on how well the project goes and whether 111 (d) goes so I am just wondering if you have actually been in conversations about that is that something that’s actually been planned out at this point or is it just talk for now? And also is this something that you can hold over the consortium's head so-to-speak that guarantees some kind of good performance going forward also in the litigation? So many of you on the call may remember in 2014 I want to say it was the summer and a Q&amp;A session that’s by far some policy center I think after a talk I made that I did alluded the fact that we would be I forget delighted to consider new nuclear.
The steps that would be taken first would be to essentially begin the permitting process to undertake a new plant not necessarily to commit to build a new plant.
So in essence it’s fairly modest dollars in order to secure the option.
And we moved along and then we were hit in December with the change in schedule put forth by our contractor group.
We were very clear that we don’t believe that the contractors are doing everything they can do in order to fully mitigate their schedule per the requirements of the contracts.
And so what I said at that time was that I thought it was sensible for us to set aside a lot of talk about new projects until we came to more resolution as to the commercial dispute.
It is clear to me that if the contractors want to succeed in the United States with AP1000 then they need to perform well on Votgle 3 and 4.
It is in fact the benchmark plant for all AP1000s going forward.
So you can draw your own conclusions as to their motives.
And our next question comes from the line of Daniel Eggers from Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Tom just on the nuclear conversation can you maybe just share some of the things that you guys saw to expedite or to catch up on the delays of the EPC folks number one.
And then number two if you look at kind of how they got their delays and schedule are there things you’re going to be able to do to mitigate that from happening kind of going forward so we don't run into this 12 or 18 months from now them saying while we have the same sort of delay problems? So we try to kind of suggest that in the prepared remarks at the outset.
I think there is a clear opportunity to advance some scheduled mitigation with new Newport News that’s our opinion.
And it’s not only production of their facilities but also the installation of the panels.
We need to make sure that all of that is done well.
Also you must know that especially those of you that have visited the site we encourage everybody on the phone if you can figure out a way to get to the site we love showing it off.
I think the people that were there were I think really struck with the kind of progress and quality of the work there.
We have an enormous quality assurance program and as licensee of the plant we ultimately are responsible for having the right kind of plant built there.
Our QA program has been focused not only on site but also at places like Lake Charles and I think our working with the contractors itself put them in the position where now we essentially have been able to accept production out of that facility and go ahead and put it in the production process.
As we move to more work inside the nuclear island that kind of process improvement quality assurance and ultimately production on site is going to move the needle in the right direction.
So we remained relentlessly focused on ways to work with them to do that.
And I would argue in the past quarter or so I think we've made some progress in our thinking.
And then just to ask a question but just on the gas reserves and rate base issue.
The legislation in Mississippi seemed to open that as a little bit more of a window than previously discussed.
Is that something you guys are going to look for sure how do you read that legislative action? Well it’s largely focused on E&amp;Ps recovery of economic development projects.
It does authorize the PSE to deem the natural gas reserves are used and useful as utility plan or whatever.
So a similar concept -- so it is something we would consider as there is natural gas kind of generation in Mississippi I think once you're post Kemper rank with 3rd coal gas and Kemper.
A similar concept that we have at Kemper is in fact that the Lignite mine.
It’s a similar idea where essentially we own the Lignite and it’s in rate days and it serves to hedge kind of any future price swings.
Remember that is almost no volatility going forward.
So it’s certainly a valid idea something we consider and make sense.
And I guess just on the renewable side of the business I guess we’re able to put renewables in right place in Georgia in PPAs in the other states is there going to be an opportunity when you guys start putting or feel more comfortable putting some of those assets into your rate base rather than contracting out where the cost of capitals are.
Sure.
I think to the extent those assets ever get flipped so what have you.
I think we’re a natural buyer.
One of the things that we always kind of think about is for any of our assets and although we tend to acquire some you know we sold some and swapped some who is the best owner.
And we always seek to achieve that position.
So I think there will be opportunities for us should those assets ever come to the market for us to be a strong player in acquiring that that maybe a Southern Power or could be at the OpCo.
But you don’t necessarily see the utilities doing more to develop renewables in territory in rate base asset.
No absolutely we could and in fact I try to suggest that in that little funny sense right there and there is probably more to come if you remember that sense.
We’ve done a lot of business in Georgia we’ve done four times 30 with DOD facility and there is more to come.
So I’m very bullish on that.
We’ve had a terrific relationship with the DOD.
You know that the DOD has a renewable mandate goal what have you and I think we were probably the first ones in the United States to work with them constructively to fulfill that mandate.
Our next question is come from the line of Ali Agha from SunTrust.
Please proceed with your question.
First question Tom just wanted to clarify your scenarios on getting closure on the Mississippi issue.
I think one of the options previously was for the Supreme Court to overturn their ruling which I guess was 5.4.
Is that still an option or are you really thinking if global settlement could address all the issues they raised in the original ruling and take care of it from that perspective.
Ali it’s both of those I mean the Supreme Courte could certainly reconsider their decision that obviously and think about the broad supporting the state just about everybody in the state that we had huge participation in the amicus briefs.
But tailing that we could reach a global settlement which would in effect mimic many of the characteristics of the original rate order that was entered into in 2013 we could get that as well.
We think any those are better than filling for 40% increase in the rate case but we’ll see how it goes those are the path we will follow.
And also be clear I think you mentioned thinking about filing that rate case about mid May just couple of weeks from here.
So in your mind the other two parts whether a global settlement or a Supreme Court reversal realistically could happen within the next couple of weeks? Sure.
And then I suggested on the call earlier today that another alternative for us to file the settlement proposal at the same time would temper us with the conventional rate case.
And then secondly this show cause notice that they put out there to you guys on market bought issues how big of a deal is that or do you see that playing out? We don’t think it’s a big deal right now.
Look I don’t think there is any evidence in my opinion there is very little evidence no evidence Southern Power has any market power in the Southeast.
I think it was a reaction by the first half that basically pointed out that there was not much activity in our auction mechanism that we had put in place really up until 2014.
In 2015 we introduced kind of a tweak on that auction process which increased the activity of the auction many folds.
But you got to understand through this period we’ve been a net purchaser not seller.
So heaven sake I don’t know how we exercise market power as a net purchaser of energy.
Number two the southeast has been traditionally a bilateral market and people are very happy.
There has been no contention at FERC that suggest that there is something wrong with the auction process we have in place.
This in fact was flow by the FERC that basically is raising a question where I am not sure there is any problem at all.
So we have a chance to respond and we we'll provide our evidence and have a good constructed dialogue with FERC and we'll see how it goes.
In the near-term you should think about that in the next three to five years.
At least the thinking we've done so far there is almost no potential adverse financial impact from this.
And then in your financial planning you still have assumed no equity issuance through '17.
I was just curious how much cushion do you have right now so that that scenario different scenarios keep you in that no equity issuance mode or are you fairly close if you get more Southern Power activity et cetera that equity comes back into the equation.
Yes Ali just recall last year we issued 800 million versus the 600 week plan.
So we're a bit ahead of where we thought we'd be.
We don't really have any scenarios in which in the foreseeable future even with the Southern Power investments that we have outlined in our CapEx program where we would need more equity.
It would have to be in access of the amounts that we forecast and you can see we filled up our bucket in 2015 on placeholder projects and we strive away to go 2016.
So I think we're good to give you a feel for I don't have a number to give you about where we are in the limit but I think we're in pretty good shape.
And I think we've suggested in the past that kind of as we start to wind down our CapEx and if you look at our CapEx slide kind of what was it to 6.8 to 5.5 or to 4.3 or something like that.
We're probably over-equitized to some degree.
So there is not pressure to sell more equity.
And our next question is coming from the line of Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Congrats on a good start to the year and especially on the renewable side.
One quick Mississippi question and then one natural gas question for you.
In Mississippi the court decision referenced pretty clearly the need for a prudency review before the commission can grant any kind of rate increases.
And given that the stems from a rate pair or customers acting as litigant here do you need to have a prudency hearing of some kind as part of any settlement docket? We've already filed a prudency record last year.
So we think all the evidences there necessary for the commission to act right now.
So the commission could issue a prudency determination based on what's in the record right now and that should satisfy effectively what the Supreme Court said had not been satisfied when the Supreme Court made its ruling? That is our belief.
On the natural gas side when you look at the infrastructure of the natural gas system throughout your service territory and maybe even slight neighboring areas.
Where do you all see is the biggest bottle mix meaning where is there lack of midstream infrastructure that is needed to be able to over the next.
I want say five to ten years because it's kind of hard to look much more beyond that to help alleviate some natural gas or other midstream related bottle mix in your area? Yes.
That's a fascinating question and I wish I had my map and my pointer and it really depends on what you believe at 111 (d) and what we do with other kind of the display co-assets should they arise recall under their half [mac or math] we went from kind of 20 000 megawatt down the 13 000 with 4 000 total unit being retired -- being converted to gas 3 000 retired completely.
By EPAs own math and I'm not going to stand by their math because I frankly don't believe it's a achievable in the timeframe as they do.
But they would have us retire enough coal down about 4 000 megawatt so what do you do do you convert that to gas? Do you build Greenfield gas where do you build it? If you want to think about the way the pipes work in the southeast there is kind of tow big themes.
The normal conventional historical theme would has come from the west and you got a lot of pipelines that kind of run from the gulf of Mexico up through the North Western part of Georgia if you want to think about it that way.
Where you don't have a whole lot of distance to cover you have some embedded costs that are attractive.
And we could certainly link in to systems to the west.
And there is even if not just Gulf of Mexico stuff right there is Fayetteville and some other areas out there that are shale gas related.
The other theme would come out of kind of the north and so you would think about pipes that may come down north to south and kind of approach our territory more from the east.
And so we'll see how that goes you are talking about probably more expensive pipes so can you get a basis difference than the gas between the north and say Henry hub looking and kind of proxy.
So that's really the two big themes in gas infrastructure that we seem to see.
My apologies real quick back on Mississippi and this maybe our Art question.
Art given the court case and where it stands now.
What happened in the first quarter from a GAAP accounting perspective in revenues in Mississippi versus what had been basically going on to all of '13 and '14? And I am just trying to kind of match up our GAAP revenue numbers to the Mississippi rate increases are they reflected in GAAP revenue I know the cash was collected previously.
I am just trying to think through the puts and takes here.
Michael we didn’t record any mere equipped revenue in the first quarter but there were some impacts for equity return on some other pieces that actually went back into fourth quarter of last year where we un-book some of that but it was very -- it was all really deferred.
I don’t have a number to give you but I can give you some math to recall.
Just trying to think big picture you're basically no longer booking the revenue related to Kemper that $156 million number.
Well all of that was never going to the income per se it was all being booked on the balance sheet as a regulatory liability and it was going to be used to offset rate increases as the plant went into service over time that was the whole design of mere [equipped].
And our next question comes from the line of Shar Pourreza from Guggenheim Partners.
Please proceed with your question.
Just real question quick question on Mississippi I know you’re kind of working on potentially striking a global settlement.
So can you remind us if the asset has sort of a capacity factor hurdle it has to meet once it is live? It’s good to see that it’s running like a CCGT I am kind of curious on what the hurdles are once it’s live? Recall that the combined cycle that’s running right now is running on natural gas.
Ultimately we have been working with the commission on an arrangement in which when you think about it when we had the project certified there was a capital cost component and then there was an energy cost component.
And what we’ve been able to kind of think about in the settlement is a way for us to essentially assure that Mississippi customers are held harmless from any comp over runs we’ve done that painfully for all of us.
And then otherwise to assure that the energy benefits are there for Mississippi's customers and I think we can get that done.
Now you all must recognize that when plant Radcliffe was originally approved this is a process that occurred in 2009 and 2010 and remember we only had 10% of the engineering done there's been a host of changes in a variety of fronts including natural gas prices commodity prices all host of things.
I think what we would undertake to do is make sure that we could deliver the energy benefit that the commission thought they were getting when the project was approved.
We’ve already spoken for the capital cost.
I think we can get that done.
And then just one question on renewables Tom as we’re starting to see some more contracts being designed post ITC step down.
Curious on if you’re seeing that within the Southeast? And then kind of what that placeholder could look like for Southern Power between wind and solar say post 2016? So what’s interesting Shar is that right now there is an enormous rush to get stuff done particularly in solar before the end of '16.
And certainly that has filled up our wheelbarrow of capital placeholders for '15 and we feel really good about where we are for '16.
The wind deal was a way to startle in fact it was interesting one of our own directors used the phrase that did it and kind of the development activity of renewables and therefore earnings associated with the renewable.
The other thing that’s fascinating is as we start to consider kind of beyond renewable to 111 (d) we’ll probably have a final rule there in summer say August.
The States will now have to start providing for the reality of compliance with that rule and therefore we got to start thinking about gas.
And remember as I suggested earlier on the call if we’re going to do new gas generation we need new gas infrastructure.
Those things can go hand in hand and filling in that kind of flat spot.
And then just on any of the Southeast states is anybody close to submitting the state implementation plan or we’re like very far off? You don’t have a final rule to react to.
Shar Art just pointed something out.
Why don’t you stay with it on the solar? If you look at our CapEx budget in terms of growth CapEx in 2017 it’s like $200 million but solar projects so it’s very very small compared to '15 '16.
So there is 200 million anyway it’s way less than what we’re seeing right now.
And our next question is coming from the line of Paul Ridzon from KeyBanc.
Please proceed with your question.
It seems incrementally with each call you’re embracing more and more renewables.
I mean if this trend continues what are your current thoughts about when yield come into serious consideration? So we’re really following through on what we said we would do.
It’s funny.
It’s kind of what you say and how you say it I guess.
What we’ve been saying here been pretty consistent for a while now that we thought that renewables will be important certainly solar renewables through '15 and '16 while you have the 30% investment tax credit environment and that kind of beyond ‘16 into '17 and '18 where 30% goes to 10 all of a sudden wind starts looking like a way to address that gap.
Also you should know the strategic synergy we started procuring wind energy via contract.
So for us to take an equity position and win puts us in a different posture than we have been before.
With respect to the YieldCo you know that we’ll consider anything but I think on balance we felt that Southern Company itself was a YieldCo anyway we have really efficient ways to raise capital.
I think it introduces complexity into your balance sheet and long-term I’m not sure that north of the benefit of shareholders it certainly has short-term appeal but I would never want to impair the long-term viability of this company by doing financial engineering or tricks.
The other thing you should just know and let’s just point out again we haven't really talked about on this call but we have another call.
We have terrific tax appetite and given our scale given our tax appetite you know that we’ve always been conservative; our tax appetite remains the competitive advantage for us to play in these fields.
Linking that with our experience with the major vendors our low cost of capital access the capital markets I think the developers they want to do something significant look to Southern as the premier partner right now.
That’s why we have been able to fill up our [advance] card.
And then it was refreshing to see in the Kemper charge kind of immaterial this quarter how you look there? Tell me about it.
Look we’re in start up right now.
There is a submission of construction left but we’re essentially in start up and the team there is working wonderfully.
We brought in a guy that has had a tremendous amount of experience in start up of these types of processes Chip Troxclair he and his team have really done a dynamite job of stay on the schedule and working around the issues.
It’s refreshing to us as well.
They’re doing a great job.
Our next question is come from the line of Dan Jenkins from State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
Please proceed with your question.
First questions on Slide 18 your financing plan I notice there are couple of revisions from slide from last quarter the big ones being Alabama in '13 went from 713 to 75 and then Mississippi bank debt in '16 went from to 0 to 900.
I was wondering if you could talk about what’s driving those change? I believe the Alabama took advantage and issues from vision of that this year.
It actually did some refunding that probably wasn’t reflected in the schedule we showed you on the last call.
Mississippi bank debt was really a renewal of bank notes that were maturing this year that was about 775 million maturing this year and we actually renewed those plus a couple of hundred million or 175 million or so of additional money and really that's serving as bridge financing for until we get into position where we can either go to capital markets or do our securitization financing.
And I want to go back little bit on your retail sales growth.
You talked about change in the weather normalized sales.
So I was wondering if you could give us a little color on the customer growth how -- is consistent with your expectation or how is that playing out? Yes well we talked a little about customer growth in the residential side.
We added 16 000 new I think last year we added 10 in the first quarter.
So pretty good jump in growth.
I think if you do a year-over-year look it's about 37 000 increase if you look at year what we have added since the first quarter of last year 37 000 you may recall that prior to the recession we were adding almost 60 000 or more a year so it's not back to where it was but it' showing stronger growth.
Then last I was looking at the global construction update on Slide 5 I think it is then I noticed you didn't really change any of the information related to Unit 4 and I was wondering if that was according -- still according to plan or if there has been some slippage in the near-term and on the horizon are essentially the same as what you reported last quarter.
I don't have last quarter's slide in front of me but I believe that what you're seeing there is still kid of consistent with where we are the biggest new module CA04 module is not a very big one neither are CD-65 or CD-66.
So the next biggest module for the Unit 4 will be CA20 and we mentioned that in the script that is just now beginning assembling in the MAB the module assembling building.
So the schedule hasn't really changed for Unit 4 and then to what you reported last time? Not that I'm aware.
And at this time there is no further question.
Mr.
Fanning are there any closing remarks? Yes.
Thank you.
Listen everybody we appreciate you been on the call.
I think the company's is off to a great start as we've said to franchise for some time now has been in a good as shape as it's ever been.
We continue to execute like champions and we're going to do our best to make sure that our shareholders here are handsomely rewarded.
Thanks very much.
Talk to you soon.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the Southern Company's first quarter 2015 earnings call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Good afternoon.
My name is Savannah and I will be your conference coordinator on today's call.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Southern Company's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday July 29 2015.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dan Tucker Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Planning.
Please go ahead sir.
Investor Relations &amp; Financial Planning</strong> Thank you Savannah.
Welcome everyone to The Southern Company's second quarter 2015 earnings call.
Joining me this afternoon are Tom Fanning Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Company; and Art Beattie Chief Financial Officer.
Let me remind you that we will make forward-looking statements today in addition to providing historical information.
Various important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements including those discussed in our Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
In addition we will present non-GAAP financial information on this call.
Reconciliations to the applicable GAAP measure are included in the financial information we released this morning along with the slides for this conference call.
The slides we will discuss on today's call may be viewed on our Investor Relations website at investor.southerncompany.com.
At this time I'll turn the call over to Tom Fanning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
As always we appreciate your interest in Southern Company.
Our traditional operating companies continued to operate superbly in the second quarter of 2015 making great progress towards our full-year objectives.
Contributing to this performance is underlying strength in retail electricity sales.
For the first time in a decade we've experienced two consecutive quarters of growth in all three retail customer classes: residential commercial and industrial.
In particular we are encouraged by the developing strength of the residential sector fueled in large part by healthy growth in the housing sector.
Our wholesale subsidiary Southern Power also performed extremely well in the second quarter.
Year-to-date results for Southern Power represent solid growth compared to 2014 and we expect them to exceed their plan for 2015 and the outlook for 2016 is promising.
As we suggested last quarter Southern Power has now confirmed solar and wind projects to account for all of its placeholder capital in 2015.
The project pipeline remains robust and we could potentially exceed our forecasted placeholders for both 2015 and 2016.
We continue to leverage our full portfolio of generation resources to deliver low-cost electricity for customers.
With our coal burn near record lows our natural gas consumption is increasing and our gas burn is expected to increase to an average of 1.8 Bcf per day this year.
This compares with our average gas burn of 1.5 Bcf per day over the last three calendar years.
We've also continued to grow renewable generation resources.
Last week the Georgia Public Service Commission approved Georgia Power's request to build a 46 megawatt solar project at the U.S.
Marine Corp logistics base in Albany Georgia.
With this approval Georgia Power now has 166 megawatts of solar generation under development on military bases in Georgia which speaks to a strong partnership with the United States Department of Defense.
Georgia Power also launched its new solar sales and installation service on July 1.
Through a variety of solar programs Georgia Power will add thousands of solar panels to the Georgia landscape for customers who desire that option.
All of our traditional operating companies are now pursuing significant renewable generation projects and Southern Power continues to grow its renewable portfolio.
So based on the currently approved project The Southern Company system expects to own or purchase the output of more than 3 200 megawatts of renewable resources including 46 solar facilities in seven states by the end of 2016.
I would now like to focus our discussion on the two major construction projects both very important to our full portfolio of generating resources.
Georgia Power's new nuclear project Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 and Mississippi Power's 21st century coal facility in Kemper County Mississippi.
First an update on the Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4.
Construction is proceeding very well as the focus continues to be on quality and safety.
We held our Southern Company Management Council meeting at the worksite last week where our senior management team was able to observe progress firsthand.
For Unit 3 final preparations are underway to set the 1 000-ton CA01 module in the containment vessel which is expected to occur in early August.
Assembly of the CA03 module has begun and concrete placements continue in preparation for the initial installations of shield-building panels expected in the coming months.
The Unit 4 nuclear island continues to benefit from lessons learned on Unit 3.
Three of the smaller structural modules were recently installed and assembly of CA20 has begun in the module assembly building.
Significant work has also occurred in areas outside the nuclear island including work on the structural steel for the Unit 3 annex building.
The annex building will be a critical component in the initial energization testing that is anticipated in 2016 a key milestone in preparation for the eventual testing and startup of Unit 3.
In ground work for the Unit 3 switchyard is also finished and there has been significant progress on other transmission infrastructure.
The Unit 3 cooling tower is complete and the Unit 4 cooling tower is now more than 100 feet tall.
Overall we remain on target for the anticipated completion of Unit 3 in the second quarter of 2019 and Unit 4 in the second quarter of 2020.
On the regulatory front the Georgia Public Service Commission staff has recommended approval of costs submitted in the 12th Vogtle Construction Monitoring Report and we expect the Commission to render a decision on August 18.
Now let's turn to an update on the Kemper County IGCC project.
Kemper start-up is also progressing with first syngas production expected later this year.
Operator training is well underway and portions of the plant have been turned over to the operations team.
Control system validation an area of significant initial focus is also on schedule to support these future milestones.
Mississippi Power's continuing startup and checkout activity and as expected with any project is identifying and remediating issues along the way.
In some cases equipment is being repaired by the original equipment manufacturer while in other cases the engineering and construction team is implementing solutions onsite.
To a large extent contingencies for cost and schedule have been sufficient to absorb these activities and the focus remains on the expected in-service date in the first half of 2016.
I'll move now to a discussion of regulatory matters.
Based on the Mississippi Public Service Commission's July 7 order Mississippi Power has ceased billing customers for Kemper.
As a result Mississippi Power filed a rate proposal on July 10 for an 18% increase primarily to recover costs associated with the project combined cycle and transmission investments as well as Kemper-related regulatory assets.
The combined cycle has been running since August of 2014 and performing exceptionally well.
In fact over the last 11 months Kemper's combined cycle operations have delivered more than 3 billion kilowatt hours of electricity and saved Mississippi Power customers more than $15 million having displaced other higher cost methods of generation.
Year-to-date this unit has experienced an equivalent forced outage rate or EFOR of approximately 1.25% compared with an industry average EFOR of over 6% for natural gas combined cycles.
As the Commission is not expected to rule on any permanent rates for Kemper prior to November Mississippi also petitioned the PSC to implement the 18% increase on an interim basis subject to refund.
A hearing on the interim rates is scheduled for August 6.
At the same time the PSC may also rule on Mississippi Power's proposed Mirror CWIP refund plan which was filed in response to the July 7 order.
I'll turn the call over now to Art for a financial and economic overview.
Thanks Tom.
As you can see from the materials we released this morning we had solid results for the second quarter of 2015 reporting earnings of $629 million or $0.69 a share compared with earnings of $611 million or $0.68 a share in the second quarter of 2014.
For the six months ended June 30 2015 earnings were $1.14 billion or $1.25 a share compared with earnings of $962 million or $1.08 a share for the same period in 2014.
Earnings for the three and six months ended June 30 2015 include after-tax charges of $14 million and $20 million respectively related to increased construction estimates for Mississippi Power's Kemper County integrated gasification combined cycle project.
Earnings for the six months ended June 30 2014 include after-tax charges of $235 million or $0.26 a share related to the Kemper County IGCC project.
Earnings for the three and six months ended June 30 2015 also include a $4 million after-tax charge related to discontinued operations of Mirant and the March 2009 settlement agreement with MC Asset Recovery.
Excluding these charges Southern Company earned $647 million or $0.71 a share during the second quarter of 2015 compared with $611 million or $0.68 per share during the second quarter of 2014 an increase of $0.03 per share.
For the first six months of 2015 excluding these charges Southern Company earned $1.16 billion or $1.28 per share compared with earnings of $1.20 billion or $1.34 a share for the same period in 2014 a decrease of $0.06 a share.
Earnings for the second quarter of 2015 were positively influenced by retail revenue effects at Southern Company's traditional operating companies warmer weather and a stronger than expected performance from our Southern Power subsidiary.
Earnings were negatively influenced by increased non-fuel O&amp;M expenses.
Moving on to an economic and sales review for the second quarter as Tom just mentioned we experienced weather normal growth in all three customer classes; residential commercial and industrial in consecutive quarters for the first time since 2004.
We are particularly encouraged by growth in the residential class which saw weather normal sales increase 1.2% in the second quarter largely a result of customer growth.
We've added nearly 22 000 new residential customers through June of this year which compares to just over 13 000 customers added during the same period in 2014 an increase of nearly 60% over last year and our 2015 forecast.
Residential growth is shifting from absorption of vacant properties to new construction as 85% of our customer gains are from new connects.
While not yet back to prerecession levels new connects are 14% ahead of 2014 which further indicates a strengthening housing market and healthy migration into our service region.
Between 2013 and 2014 Atlanta was ranked number four among U.S.
cities with the highest net migration.
Our commercial markets are continuing to show strength as well with a second quarterly increase in weather adjusted sales of 0.7%.
This growth is supported by strong non-manufacturing employment growth.
Atlanta experienced the second fastest rate of job growth of the 12 largest metro areas in the U.S.
and its office vacancy rate is at the lowest level since 2008.
Earlier this month we re-engaged with our Economic Roundtable a group consisting of regional economists and executives from several of our largest customers that meets twice a year.
The panelists expect GDP growth of approximately 2.5% for 2015.
They also noted an improvement in the national housing market which further supports what we are experiencing with migration to our region as homeowners are better able to sell their existing homes and relocate to higher growth job markets.
Finally our earnings estimate for the third quarter is $1.16 per share.
I'll turn the call back over to Tom for his closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Art.
Here at the midpoint of 2015 we continue to see a franchise business that is operating at a high level and we see important progress on major capital projects.
We also see a strengthening economy and a region poised for continued growth.
Finally Southern Power is on track to exceed its original financial targets.
In short we believe Southern Company is well-positioned for continued success in 2015 and beyond behind the strength of our 26 000 employees and their commitment to our customer-focused business model.
We're now ready to take your questions.
Operator we'll now take the first question.
Thank you.
One moment please for the first question.
And our first question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with Evercore ISI.
Please proceed with your question.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hello Greg.
How are you? Good.
Good afternoon fellows.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey.
Hey.
I know you guys usually only update guidance once a year at the beginning of the year but you made a comment that you're feeling pretty good about where the financial performance stands year-to-date.
Are you prepared to comment about how we look inside the guidance range for 2015? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
No.
Greg we're going to keep doing what we've been doing for – gosh I know this was ever since I was CFO so this is over 10 years ago now.
So we provide initial guidance in January and then we always update kind of in October once we get past the summer months.
We'll just keep with that practice.
Fair enough.
My second question was looking at the financing plan on page 12 of the slide deck it actually looks like your total debt financing needs are slightly lower over the 2015 to 2017 time period and you still are not projecting to need any equity.
Is that plan sort of formally updated for the SMEPA refund and what you hope to get in terms of a decision in Mississippi with regard to the refunds there? Greg this is Art.
Yes it does.
We have adjusted some of the operating company needs out of 2015 and reduced those and then Southern Power has been on a small bit of adjustment as well offset by some increases in the holding company level.
But all-in-all...
Yeah.
So when you say you've reduced the needs of the operating companies does that mean that there's more cash flow than you expected there? Or you've cut back on expected capital expenditures at the regulated businesses? Or does that mean there's just – you're modulating down sort of the placeholder (19:38)...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
It's a combination of all that plus as you look into 2016 we pushed some out of 2015 into 2016 but if you net them all it's a slight bit of an increase not great.
Okay.
And can you guys just explain again specifically what it is that you're hoping to get from the Mississippi Commission on August 6? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
The 18% rate increase for one and then what is the preferred plan for the customer refund? Yeah sure.
So the simple answer is that we have a plan in place that amounts to about an 18% increase permanently for assets and service including some amortizations of some regulatory assets.
So that amounts to 18%.
We won't be able to have those rates put into place by the Commission until the process is complete which we think now might be who knows November something like that.
So the interim rates we would expect to be put into place on or around August 6.
That would permit us to basically keep the rate structures in place that have been in place minus the refunds.
So that's really the process.
Number one the interim rates equal to what we believe is the right kind of rates associated with assets and service.
We think that'll be complete at the end of this year November.
And then we will have the rest of the assets either ruled on by the end of the year we don't know the answer to this or conceivably pushed into 2016.
That's associated with what we believe will be about a 10% looking number 6% associated with securitization bonds 4% associated with the other assets.
In terms of the refund plan our preference is to have a default that would be a bill credit.
The customers could elect to take a check.
All that would be complete within 90 days.
Great.
Thanks guys.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Crowdell with Jefferies.
Please proceed with your question.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Anthony how are you? Wonderful.
Never been better.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Awesome.
Just two quick questions.
Unfortunately they're with the small part of your business on Mississippi.
One is I think previously you were thinking you could get syngas entered into the unit in July and maybe that's been pushed back.
If you give some color on that.
And the second question is related to I guess the staff recommendations in Mississippi that were released last Friday.
The staff had recommended some conditions two of them of interest one was that an equity infusion of like $200 million rather quickly and also the parent Southern Company guarantee investment grade credit at Mississippi Power through the duration of the project.
I just wanted to know if you could maybe talk about those.
Is that something the company is willing to entertain until they get full clarity on the entirety of the project? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Let me take the first one on syngas.
So basically there's three or four big pieces that we need to do.
One is that we're working on a syngas cooler super heater the ash silo and the fluidization lines pressure testing.
We're doing all those right now.
Once we get those done then we'll go through in-service pressure tests.
We expect to complete all of that kind of by mid-August.
So that's very near term stuff.
As well there's something called a particular control device that basically takes the foreign matter particulate matter out of the flue gas.
Then we will move into the fluidization process.
The first thing we will do is actually run the gasifier.
This is kind of a new step we've put in place.
We just think it's prudent though.
But we will use sand to emulate the lignite particles and shapes.
So we're going to run sand through the gasifier.
So essentially the fluidization will be able to be demonstrated without the production of syngas.
Putting that step in place pushes actual syngas production out of lignite into the fourth quarter.
So that's roughly the schedule kind of four or five kind of big things we're doing right now.
We expect to be complete by mid-August.
Then we start this simulated process with sand.
Once we get that in place then we'll do the lignite.
So these are all intentional and we think it will serve us well as we continue to go through an orderly startup.
Anthony with respect to the second question it really goes to the staff's recommendation.
We have Southern Company has stood behind everything we said we would do with respect to getting the plant built and started up.
And that's what we're doing.
And right now there has been a staff recommendation.
It's better I think for us not to comment particularly to any staff recommendation certainly as any recommendation could relate to Southern Company.
I think we believe that when you look at the issue at hand that is rates for assets in service and those services have produce great value to Mississippi's customers and they have been performing exceedingly well compared to any measure we think we'll be treated fairly.
And we expect constructive treatment out of the Commission not only for interim rates but also for permanent rates related to those sets of assets okay? Is there anything else that you wanted me to cover about that? I guess do you expect the I guess interim rates and I know there's a window when the Commission has to approve interim rates and also maybe permanent rates.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Does that all get decided with the current Commission or does that get decided maybe in 2016 when you have two new faces on the Commission? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We think that the 18% that we are seeking both in interim and permanent would be with this Commission.
There are two paths that could happen on the remaining 10% or so.
Remember 6% of those 10% relate to securitization bonds which does not involve any ROE to Mississippi Power.
The only remaining kind of return elements to Mississippi Power is 4%.
Now that could either happen this year based on a current filing or a new filing we might make or it could be pushed into 2010 we'll just see.
I mean 2016.
We'll just see where that goes.
We believe that so far the plant knock on wood has been going great.
The start's been going great.
We've had some normal bumps in the road but we've been able to handle them with the contingencies that we've had in place.
And we're very happy with the performance of the team on-site.
They're doing a heck of a job.
Great.
Thanks for taking my question Tom.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Anthony.
Good talking with you.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
Please proceed with your question.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Steve.
Hey Tom.
Thank you.
Just one other thing I know you just went through an extensive schedule on Kemper.
I did I think when you commented on it you said something to the effect of you are kind of to a large extent kind of within the contingency for it.
And I just wanted to make sure I understood what messaging you are trying to say there.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Sure.
Yeah.
And thanks for the clarification.
So what I meant by that was remember when we gosh we took this reserve whenever we last changed the schedule into the first half of 2016.
We basically provided for I want to say about $30 million a month and that included some contingency.
And so as I said in the kind of prepared remarks that that contingency is working and it speaks to whatever kind of unforeseen changes we've had to make any work rework those kinds of things.
The only when I said largely the only thing I'm referring to really isn't schedule.
It goes with these little small things that we've been showing like for example a net increase this time of $14 million for the quarter.
That's all we're referring to.
Okay.
And then maybe just also in your comments at the end on kind of happy with financial results and maybe – I think you said maybe meet or exceed expectations? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I said that about Southern Power.
So that's on Southern Power? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Right.
Okay.
And is that's due to the higher investments in renewables? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
And just to review the bidding there if you think about it in 2014 remember we had I forget placeholders for three years as we kind of typically do.
And in 2014 we started seeing so much success we accelerated those placeholders into 2014.
And that produced better than expected results.
And then remember when we set our financials this year we said we're going to replicate 2014 and 2015.
In other words 2014 results for 2015 and we're going to add some stretch.
I'm telling you right now I think we're going to beat our stretch targets for 2015 for Southern Power and we said this on the last call but it just continues to be true and perhaps further that the placeholders are getting filled up for 2016.
So I'm feeling very confident about our ability for the placeholders in 2016; and in fact potentially can't guarantee it but potentially there could be upside to even our expectations for 2016.
By October we may be able to shed even a little more light on both of those 2015 and 2016 issues but let's wait until the next earnings call where we'll have a little more transparency.
But we're feeling very good about our progress and executing.
Okay.
But I guess my only question then on that is if that becomes – what happens then in 2017 if we don't have an ITC anymore or I guess it's smaller...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
...does that become a big headwind? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Not a headwind.
And we've talked about this before and it was the shape of kind of earnings.
So I think this would largely be true for most folks and that is absent solar investment tax credits which go from 30 to 10 you would generally expect to see a flattening out of earnings from – you'd love to see so we're telling you we're seeing a really good picture.
The franchise is doing great.
The power is doing great.
You're going to see a trajectory in 2015 and 2016.
All things being equal the solar credits go away or at least go to 10 you'd see some flattening of progress especially if people try to push stuff into 2016 to get it done so 2016 to 2017 could flatten out a little bit.
One of the things though that we're working on is ways to fill in what we're calling that divot and that divot could be filled in with some win projects.
We announced earlier Kay Wind there's some other things we're looking at.
As you know they have a different earnings profile associated with their production tax credit.
It's a 10-year kind of deal.
And so we're working on ways right now to improve what 2017 may look like assuming you don't get an extension on the solar credits.
Okay.
I'll leave it at that.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with the question.
Hey good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hello Dan.
Hey.
Just Tom could we just talk a little bit about EPA and the CPP and I guess a whether you think the stories are right that it's going to come next week and then kind of what adjustments you guys think are going to make it into the final rule? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah so Dan it's anybody's guess at this point.
When EPA pushed forward the preliminary rule and they got gosh over four million comments I think they themselves realized that the proposed rule has some significant flaws and I think we've been working constructively with EPA to try and fix those flaws.
Been a number of kind of important areas that we look forward to EPA addressing.
For example one that's been just widely discussed is the so-called cliff date of 2020 so we would look for EPA to provide some flexibility.
My sense is they're likely going to keep teeth in the 2030 requirement but we could see some flexibility on 2020.
Who knows? EEI certainly has put forth a recommendation for that.
Other issues could be related to current non-carbon-emitting resources.
It could be life extensions of nukes it could be increases of capacity of nukes it could be our own Vogtle 3 and 4 which originally we didn't get credit for that somehow EPA would recognize that that absolutely meets the intention of reducing carbon.
And really it goes to Kemper County and actually other things.
There's a host of other issues Dan that could be considered.
You hear about energy efficiency requirements you hear about the original methodology that EPA took to determine kind of the renewable capacity of certain states.
But for me to say where they're going to come out on those issues again would be pure conjecture.
Okay.
Got it.
I guess next question Tom is just Toshiba is the economic backstop to CBI and Westinghouse on Vogtle and given kind of all their troubles they've incurred so far A is that having any effect on how Westinghouse is behaving on the project itself? And then B what is your source of recourse if Toshiba has problems or if they sell down their interest in Westinghouse to make sure your protections stay in place? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we have an awfully strong contract number one and remember our contract is very different in its makeup than what you see at the summer project for SCANA.
So our contract is typically viewed as a turnkey fixed-price deal.
And actually we've improved it over the construction cycle that we've experienced so far.
So that's kind of number one.
Number two is when you think about just the commercial incentives for CBI for Westinghouse and even Toshiba the best thing they can do to improve their own financial integrity is to perform under the contract so that's important.
Number three I know there's been some trade press about Toshiba's ability to execute given that they've had some negative publicity.
In 2013 Westinghouse took appropriate charges for many of these issues.
Those issues are behind Westinghouse.
To the extent there is a double a two-notch downgrade at Toshiba's level then they would post in LOC we think they have the ability to do that.
So the contract provides us protection.
Incentives even in the event of tremendous turmoil would always direct them to perform under the contract.
And then finally to the extent there are downgrades the contract provides for Toshiba to post a letter of credit.
We think they have the ability to do that.
Great.
And I guess just one last question.
Can you remind how you guys think about M&amp;A from a corporate strategy perspective and how you prioritize that relative to other uses of capital? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Absolutely.
Yeah.
We've talked about this a lot and nothing's changed.
Essentially and we've talked about it in the past in terms of thinking about this kind of long-term trajectory we're on as our CapEx program starts to wind down I think this year we're $6.8 billion in CapEx and next year $5.5 billion and the year after that $4.3 billion.
I think those are the numbers round numbers.
When you think about that the consequence is that EPS starts to slow and we've talked about that.
And then we said there's a shape to that; in other words EPS growth should resume once you get into the next decade and you reach capacity equilibrium in the region as well.
There could be new CapEx associated with environmental law as well there could be new CapEx associated with 111(d).
So kind of on its own we think the curve resumes.
In the interim as we see CapEx winding down we see cash flow growing immensely.
And what we've said is during this period of immense cash flow certainly compared to our recent history Southern actually looked a little over equitized.
So we've said that on several earnings calls.
So what do we do about that? We've often talked about three options.
The first simplest option is to buy back your own shares.
The second option is kind of at the other end of the spectrum is to buy somebody else's shares.
And we always said that would require a premium and you would have to demonstrate a likelihood of recovery of the premium through increased value to shareholders.
And in the middle has been just buying assets.
And frankly we've been doing that.
If you look at kind of Southern Power's performance we certainly have exceeded our own expectations on our ability to execute asset purchases particularly in solar and wind.
So we've done that very successfully.
So those are really the options I would cover.
Okay.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yep.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Stephen how are you? Hi.
Good afternoon.
Very well thank you.
Thanks for your time.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Most of my topics have been covered.
I just wanted to hit on new nuclear briefly and check in on the Chinese project at Sanmen.
Anything notable in terms of development there since the last quarter? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Not really.
With respect of new nuclear at Georgia what I said was we were going to call a timeout on pushing that one forward until we got this dispute resolved from a commercial standpoint.
Recall what we've said in the past is the dispute isn't so much with us anymore it's kind of among and between the contractors so we look forward for them to kind of constructively resolve their own issues and then I think we can deal with them in a constructive way.
So let's see how that goes.
With respect to Sanmen I think the most important thing there is there's been a lot of conversation about this reactor coolant pump issue.
That's not a critical path issue for us and it looks as if they have made a successful resolution of some of the design issues so that will accrete to our benefit.
So it's going fine.
Great.
Thank you very much.
That's all I had.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you sir.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey.
How are you doing Michael? I'm all right Tom.
Congrats on a good first half of the year.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you sir.
When you think about Southern Power about how – how do you think about the maximum meaning how big would you want Southern Power to be relative to the overall and whether that impacts how you think about whether there are – whether under different umbrellas Southern Power might have even greater growth opportunities if there is such a cap? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah hey that's a great question.
That's something we actually talk about.
Yeah right now they're about 8% of Southern.
And you probably remember from prior discussions but just to review for everybody's benefit the way we structure Southern Power is to essentially replicate the kind of credit profile risk profile that we had at Southern.
That is as apart from any merchant investment long-term bilateral contracts durations of 14 years or so creditworthy counterparties we don't take fuel risks we don't take transmission risks so it kind of has the feel from a portfolio risk standpoint as does the rest of our franchise business.
Now the question you raised is a very interesting one and that is how high is too high or is our appetite? I think you could easily kind of double Southern Power relative to the rest of Southern Company and still I think stay within our appetite but that would be pushing it.
Somewhere in the 15% of net income range.
But there again we'd have to see what the nature of those investments are our tax appetites all that stuff.
We'd have to review that but that's what I would roughly say relative to where we are now we could still double it and remain within our appetite.
Somebody asked a question earlier about the EPA and I wanted to ask you what – and obviously there's a lot of wood to chop when it comes to the upcoming carbon rules state implementation plan designs et cetera.
How are you thinking about what the impact of other potential rules that haven't been finalized are say maybe ozone...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
...and what that means both for the CapEx profile and for the cost to customers and the timeline for implementation and whether it's ozone or some other rule that I'm not thinking of? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Nah but listen it's an excellent thought because one of the problems that – well let me start out with I've been very public on this one.
The body that has the same kind of lens we do that is to balance the important objectives for our customers a clean safe reliable and affordable energy is Congress.
I think with all the best of intentions EPA doesn't have the ability to assess I think they get clean but they don't have the ability to assess in a balanced way safe reliable and affordable.
It's not what they do.
And so when we think about long-term implications of a regulator like EPA putting out piecemeal the regulation it is an important fact to note that the so-called pancaking of these various regulations are not particularly well-coordinated in balancing the overall energy portfolio of the United States.
That's why I've always said we need kind of a consistent national energy policy and I think we've got great leadership there.
Fred Upton in the House Lisa Murkowski in the Senate these are terrific leaders of the United States and I think they've got all of our best interests at heart in balancing these important issues.
The other issue that's just kind of interesting to think about along these lines I would have gone to the – the Hatch/Max now Matt's issue the remand to the D.C.
District Court.
And depending on what they do they could send it back to EPA for clarification on how did they take cost into account.
Well the practical matter is as this industry complied in good faith to that kind of far-reaching regulation we've already spent billions of dollars.
We've started closing plants we've eliminated jobs and tax base we've done all sorts of things.
The regulation remains in place even though it's being revisited.
It's important I think to learn as a lesson that whenever you evaluate the far-reaching implications of some of these regulations we need to get all this right out of the gate as opposed to after the fact.
So that would be kind of my big lessons learned.
One is thinking about the pancake effect.
We've got to think about it in an integrated way.
Number two we've got to get all those clean safe reliable affordable factors considered before we implement.
And three I'd love to see national energy policy enacted by Congress.
Got it.
Thank you Tom.
Much appreciated.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you sir.
Our next question comes from the line of Carrie Saint Louis with Fidelity (46:11).
Please proceed with your question.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Carrie (46:12).
Hi.
How are you? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Super.
How are you? I'm doing fine.
So I just wanted to touch base on a little bit more on the capital raising and Mississippi Power.
So looking at the slides it looks like you guys have put some bank debt in at Mississippi Power? Yeah.
That was true Carrie (46:38).
This is Art – back in the spring.
About $900 million.
Yeah.
What was the decision behind that? Well again it was renewing some bank loans that were already outstanding and we added a little bit to it at the same time.
Okay.
Does that...
Again these are to serve as a bridge until we get some clarity on regulatory issues or to the point where we can issue securitization bonds and take that debt out.
Okay.
But is it like a general term loan? Are you deciding that you're not going to issue in the public market at Mississippi Power until there's a little bit more regulatory clarity? Or just what was the decision to use that type of funding versus public market issuance? Yeah.
That's absolutely true.
With so much on the clarity side...
Right.
That's a problem.
Okay.
So we're trying to do it as best we can.
And again the banks are worried about security as well.
So it's not just the public markets.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think just from a structural standpoint too if we believe that securitization bonds are in the near-term future bank debt to bridge to that is an efficient way to finance.
Yeah.
Okay.
And then just two other quick questions.
On The Southern Company the $1 billion of issuance this year why are you issuing so much up at the parent this year versus prior years? It seems like a lot of issuance I think it's $1.6 billion overall.
Yeah.
These are remaining amounts and a lot of that is to cover the cash needs at all of our Southern subs for the capital that we might be providing to them.
And it also covers some of the Mississippi Power needs related to the refund and it will be provided in the form of an intercompany loan.
Okay.
And then turning to equity so there still looks like there's no contemplation of increased equity issuance at the company? That is our current plan.
We continue to manage our portfolio over the long-term.
Things change but Southern Power if they keep executing on their plan to the upper limits there could be additional needs in that regard.
But it depends on where we are with cash and where we see the future CapEx going for the entire business.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
And Carrie (49:10) let me just jump in on this one.
If you look at our CapEx plan going into 2017 you see the drop from $6.8 billion to $4.3 billion.
We're throwing off cash.
So it would be kind of silly for us to issue equity and then in turn repurchase it two years later.
Yeah.
I guess just the concern I have is that your S&amp;P put the whole complex Southern and all OpCos on review for downgrade.
And I guess that was done during this last quarter.
So I guess and I don't want to read anything into it but I would have thought that maybe you would like to maintain your ratings there.
So I guess you're not I guess your comment is that you're not looking to issue equity to defend current credit rating.
Is that a fair comment or how should I think about that? I would have thought maybe you'd use a little bit more discretion about future equity but it seems like you're saying not necessary.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we've got to run this business in the long-term.
And I think the S&amp;P move was all about Mississippi to be honest with you.
And I'm assuming that we're going to get fair treatment with the interim rates and then the permanent rates.
Right.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I think we just need clarity around that process.
So are you if somehow in Mississippi things don't go as expected with the outcome for interim rate relief is there a view that you would be open to considering issuing equity? Or are you saying that that's just not in the plans regardless? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well look I mean we're open to anything to be honest with you.
But we expect fair treatment.
I think we have a compelling case for fair treatment.
I don't expect anything other than that.
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So...
Well I appreciate that.
I think openness to equity is always constructive.
So thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Please proceed with your question.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Paul.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey Tom.
How are you? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Awesome.
How are you? Inc.</span></strong> I'm okay.
Quick question.
You said you thought that at this point the Vogtle dispute was among the consortium.
Kind of what residual risk do you see Georgia Power still wearing here? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I think Georgia Power has demonstrated that they are very well protected via their contract.
Residual risk to me I suppose there's some theoretical risk there.
But as a practical matter when you think about even with the schedule changes even with the increases in costs associated with those schedule changes we believe that the call it the majority of the cost the big majority of the costs associated with that is being borne by the contractors.
And that's being demonstrated over and over again.
And in fact when you think about the fact that when Georgia had this plant certified everyone thought that the cost was going to be a 12% price increase to Georgia Power's customers.
Because the benefit has overwhelmed the increases in cost we think now that estimate frankly Paul has actually improved this quarter as you see in the VCM12 filing.
So now we think we're in the bottom of the 6% to 8% range.
Largely this recent improvement is because we're financing at a much better rate than what even we thought when we got the federal loan guarantees.
You know remaining kind of risk I think we've disclosed in prior quarters one of the features of the contract is called a financial integrity payment.
It basically provides that as the contractors perform their obligations if they use up all of their profit and then they spend another $250 million above their profit I guess it's above their cost then we would share a $250 million segment of which our share of that would be about $114 million.
And then everything above that would be for the account of the contractors guaranteed by Toshiba.
That's been a part of the contract since day one.
That's probably it in my view other than certain owner's costs and everything else.
But that's about it.
I think we're in terrific shape on the contract.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for that.
And then do you – just back to Southern Power and how big it could be do you think that Southern Power should be valued any differently than the utility? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Man haven't we thought about that over the years? I know you've over the years thought about and I thought about it too.
Remember at one time all the infrastructure guys were buying up all these bilateral contracted entities and they had tremendous value.
We actually thought about that and please understand from my background as a CFO I know Art feels this way we're always after shareholder interests and so theoretically you're always a buyer and a seller at a certain price.
We're always there to do what's best for shareholders.
If there's a better owner we'll take advantage of it.
The other thing though it's not just a dollars and cents business.
There's real blood and guts and relationships in this stuff.
When you think about kind of the relationship that Southern Power has been able to strike in the marketplace and this is really important because it goes through the center of our business model.
Customers in the middle of everything we do reliability price and service one of the most loyal customer groups that Southern Power has are co-ops and municipals.
They absolutely have a long-term view on these kinds of assets and what service may be provided for their customers.
So I'm not sure we'd have to think very hard about ever selling those kinds of relationships away from the franchise.
And that's other considerations we'd have to take into account.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
And sorry to switch subjects but over to Mississippi you said you expect a fair outcome.
I assume that you would not consider the staff rack to be a fair outcome? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I just don't even want to comment on the staff rack.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Understood.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Appreciate you being on.
Are there any other questions? Our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Julien.
Thank you.
Hey.
Afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Afternoon to you.
Excellent.
So I wanted to go back a little bit to some of these balance sheet questions first.
In terms of talking about future equitization you talked pretty bullishly about your balance sheet but obviously you've got the pressures from the credit rating agencies kind of in a more immediate sense.
How do you think about that contingency level that you guys obviously baked in earlier especially relative to some of the pressures that you alluded to before with Carrie (56:59)? If you can quantify it perhaps is really kind of what I'm getting at.
Well it's kind of difficult to do that when you've got issues like Southern Power trying to execute on plans and you don't really have a good idea.
But what we're thinking about from a rating agency perspective is basically getting to a point where we can use we can reduce the business risk excuse me – increased financial risk because business risk will be reduced as we move out of these construction projects.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Let me say it a different way.
Value is a function of risk and return.
And when you make – I think the heart of your question gets into a bunch of current unknowables what's going to happen with balance (57:45) depreciation and therefore cash flow what's going to be the success rate of Southern Power what's going to be our appetite to do things like gas infrastructure? So there's a host of things that we just can't get our arms around.
What I can tell you is as internal risk starts to wind down that is we get more resolution on Kemper that is we get more wind down of construction programs and therefore financing pressure it's clear to me that as internal risk subsides cash flow improves that we can probably think differently about our capital structure.
That's why we've said for some time now that in fact we may believe in the future we may be over equitized a bit.
So I can't put a number on it but these are things that we talk about daily.
Right.
And well perhaps just to come back to it a little bit you've alluded to scaling up the relative size of Southern Power within the Southern family here but how do you think about potentially monetizing these assets? Obviously given the ITC recognition and the subsequent earnings in future years and obviously your co-ownership with certain fuel-cos do you think about potentially sort of recycling the capital rather than necessarily scaling up the business per se? In particular if you're going to hit limit the max you say at 15% or what have you in the context of Southern Power? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Think about the kind of CapEx that would be associated with doubling Southern Power right now.
That is a big number okay? So I think the chances and you think about how big Southern is and you think that Southern continues to grow if you think about what's going to be required to double Southern Power that is a big number.
So number one boy that's an outside bet.
Number two I've been pretty consistent in saying if there's a better owner we'd certainly take advantage of it.
We'd always do that.
But taking into account historical relationships long-term partnerships all those sorts of things.
It's a great option to have.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Heck yeah.
Right.
Maybe let me just ask it more bluntly.
To what extent would you pursue that as a first option rather than issuing equity in maybe kind of near-term sense to address balance sheet concerns? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> If I'm a better owner of the asset and I have investment opportunities to issue equity I would certainly issue the equity and make the investments that I need to make.
I don't think about issuing equity in and of itself as being a bad thing.
Number one I'm over equitized so I've got some margin there.
Number two if I'm above my kind of EVA threshold then I issue equity and create value.
So I don't look at issuing equity as a bad thing.
If I'm issuing equity it must mean that all other things being equal I've got darn good value-enhancing investments to make.
That's very fair.
And let me come back to one – something you alluded to in your comments previously here on gas infrastructure.
Where do you stand on those opportunities? You've kind of suggested there could be updates coming but where do we stand today? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah a lot a lot a lot of activity.
I am not prepared to give you an update today only because I got a lot of irons in the fire and I got to see how those things resolve themselves.
All right.
Well with that best of luck with those irons.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you sir.
We appreciate it.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Please proceed with your question.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Ali how are you? I'm doing well.
Good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon to you.
First question Tom.
As you've mentioned your weather-normalized sales through the first half are up 0.8%.
As I recall your full-year target was 1.3%.
Is that still the target given where we've been through the first half? Yeah Ali this is Art.
It still is.
We don't adjust our targets that we put into our initial plans.
But again the momentum that we're seeing is beginning to approach what we've set out.
We're certainly not there but it was kind of forecast that way as well.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The signals we're seeing are really bullish.
And if you look at kind of the national statistics I'm sure the things the Fed is dealing with right now we're seeing the same stuff they are.
This residential move we've seen has been really bullish for us.
We're not far away from where we were pre-recession on migration into our area and increasing customers.
We're probably I don't know we think are about 70% 80% of the way there? More like 60% but...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well what are we expecting for the year 44 000 customers? Yeah.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> In those days we were 55 to 60? Right.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay so whatever percentage that is.
Okay.
Yeah.
And then secondly perhaps to you Art again as you look at your O&amp;M ramps again through the first half I know you had talked about having some catch-up to do.
Are we where you thought we should be on the O&amp;M front and again just remind us how we should think about that O&amp;M this year and then going forward? Yeah we're exactly what you said we're right on target even though year-over-year it looks like we're spending more money.
And it is a lot of that is driven by a couple of things.
We've had more outages at our larger operating companies this year last year as a comparison...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And planned outages.
And planned outages from a – into the tune of maybe $0.03 year-over-year.
There is regulatory deferrals in Alabama in 2014 that you don't have in 2015 and that's about another $0.03.
And then for other changes that we're seeing it's about another $0.06 so we're right in target.
That deferral I mentioned at Alabama will reverse itself at year-end.
So when you get to year-end we should be right on target with what we talked about at 3% at 3.5% growth in non-fuel O&amp;M.
And that's the run rate to think about going forward as well? That's correct.
Yeah.
And lastly Tom just clarifying the Vogtle dispute with the contractors from your perspective I know in the past you've alluded to the fact that if the other side is willing there may be a settlement to be had where you give up some they give up some and you move forward.
Is that still an option or am I hearing that things are now going in a different direction that they themselves are not sure where to go or is that still something we should keep an eye on? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think it's something to keep an eye on.
Look we're always looking for a successful resolution.
Failing a settlement we're going to end up in court in Augusta Georgia to litigate around the commercial disputes.
So I think once the contractors resolve their own differences we'll be in a position to address in a constructive way how to settle this thing.
I'm an optimist but I think it's reasonable optimism.
I think we have a basis to go forward.
But they've got to resolve their own differences first.
Got it.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Good afternoon guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Paul.
I have a really sort of quick question I guess.
Now that you guys are further along in the project and what have you what do you guys estimate the cost of turning the lignite into gas is on just an operational basis? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
So when I answer that one Paul I generally think about it as a net energy price equivalent to gas to Mississippi's customers.
Now...
In NBT (65:56) you mean? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So let me give it to you on what it used to be and we'll project we'll get an estimate on what it is now.
So recall that our ability to stand behind our construction overruns has preserved largely the capital cost economics to Mississippi's customers.
When I think about the relative lack of volatility of lignite fuel supply into the plant so we control all that fuel there's almost no volatility relative to natural gas.
Now remember the net cost is really net of also sales of by-products which include sulfuric acid ammonia and CO2.
The biggest issue there is CO2.
At $100 a barrel so this obviously isn't the case today at $100 a barrel remember the CO2 revenues are indexed to oil.
The net energy price was equivalent to about $1.25 per million BTUs somewhere in that range.
Now with oil prices being down the net energy price would be up so let say it's I don't know call it $2.50.
If $100 and call oil $50 and I'm being kind of broad brush here but say it's $2.50 per million BTUs somewhere in there.
So my sense is gas today is what $2.82 somewhere in there last I saw? You're still going to compete favorably with natural gas with this plant.
It'll be by all reasonable estimates a base load facility and for those economics recall it has almost no volatility.
Okay.
So let me just understand this.
So what you're saying is with the CO2 being used to extract oil is that what you mean? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's right.
Remember we sell it under contract at Tellus and Denbury...
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> ...and we get paid revenue for what would otherwise be a waste stream.
Okay.
Because it's indexed to oil and as a result obviously those numbers have changed but even with them changing on an operational basis you guys see all the reagents all the energy you have to put into it et cetera the extraction is basically approximately $2.50 give or take.
Is that right? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That was a broad estimate okay? Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't have in the top of my head what ammonia's worth what sulfuric acid is worth.
It assumes a heat rate it assumes a variety of things.
But that would be as I sit here right now it would be a reasonable estimate.
And you see this as dispatching pretty much...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Once it's up and running.
We're not going to have a situation where you're just going to be running natural gas through the CCGT because it's more economic? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I wouldn't think so no.
Okay.
That's it.
I mean you've answered all my other questions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you sir.
Thanks a lot.
Have a good one.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
You too.
Appreciate you being on.
Our final question comes from the line of Dan Jenkins with State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
Please proceed with your question.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Dan.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> How are you doing bud? Pretty good.
I have a couple related to the economy.
You mentioned how you're seeing a rebound or a pickup in the residential and commercial areas but I noticed that on the industrial it seemed it was a little slower than what we've seen in the last few months.
I'm wondering if you have any more color on that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Sure.
Look it's been consistent with kind of what the Fed has been seeing it's what everybody's been kind of speculating me included.
Gosh.
As the dollar has gained in strength relative to the euro and when we think about what's going on in China and everything else the United States economy like it or not may be the best place for people to invest including Treasuries.
Therefore the strength of the dollar has really increased.
And one of the dilemmas that the Fed is trying to deal with is that they start on a path to lift off if you will and then depending on what trajectory they select you could see further strengthening of the dollar relative to other international currencies and obviously that could have an impact on exports okay? We've seen already some of that happen.
So when you think about the Grexit whether it happens are not Japan China like I said event risk in the Soviet Union or in the Middle East the dollar still looks pretty darn good.
So we've seen some slowdown in exports.
Likewise we've seen an increase in imports.
The other thing that's kind of weighed on the industrial activity a little bit is oil prices.
As oil prices being so low we've seen kind of a reduction of bid in the pipelines some manufacturing things like that.
Primary metals are down a little bit chemicals are down a little bit also in this whole mix.
So that's what you're seeing.
That's what's responsible for some of that.
Okay.
Good.
I also had a question another question kind of related to the changes you've made to the financing plan.
You know overall it has the three-year total didn't change much but it looks like the 2015's about were $445 million lower whereas 2016's $475 million higher.
But you're still talking about the same CapEx numbers? So should we maybe – is that more related to maybe some CapEx getting delayed into 2016 that was in 2015? Or how should we think about that year-over-year change related to the CapEx forecast? Dan it really is a function of cash flows within the operating companies how they change what their needs might be whether they can push an issuance out of one year into the next.
Again we try to balance from a Southern Company perspective who's going to market when they go to market so that we don't all go at the same time.
So we're just trying to balance out as we move through time how we tap the markets in the most efficient way.
Okay.
And then lastly on Vogtle you didn't really breakout the Unit 3 and Unit 4 like you have in the past.
And so I'm just curious just looking into this current quarter the third quarter it sounds like setting the Unit 3 say one is one of the critical items.
I was wondering if you could identify any of the other critical items in Unit 3 and Unit 4 in this upcoming quarter.
Well the near term you hit it would be to set the CA01 in Unit 3.
There are some other things going on there the transmission work that we mentioned I believe in the script.
That ops building as Tom mentioned as well is very very important to us.
The one other thing that's really not mentioned here which is really down on the horizon part of Unit 3 it's the installation of the turbine generator which I believe is late this year early next I believe.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's right.
Which is a big deal.
And that turbine building has probably another 60 feet of steel to go on top once that turbine deck's built.
So if you look at the pictures we put in the slide deck it's beginning to look like what it's going to look like at the end of the day.
And that's exciting for us.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And you know what I'll just make the invitation I know certain of you guys have taken investors on to the site to be able to see this stuff the scale of this work is just immense.
And in order to kind of get an appreciation for it if you guys maybe want to come see it we'd be glad to arrange any kind of visit you want.
Okay.
How about Unit 4? Are there any critical items in this quarter [c there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Dan.
I think they set some smaller modules in but the real big work there is going to be modular related.
The CA20 assembly has begun in the modular assembly building.
And they've begun making panels for the CA01 module at Unit 4 as well.
So those are big deals.
We've learned a lot of lessons from Unit 3 and we're hopefully to going to put those lessons to use and build them quicker on Unit 4.
Yeah.
And the other thing that I guess I come away with when I go out there and kick the tires on the side listen to the people building it we're actually feeling pretty good about the schedule on Unit 2.
There's a lot of element – I'm sorry Unit 4.
There's a lot of elements on Unit 4 that relative to Unit T3 are accelerated.
That's good for the project.
Okay.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you sir.
Operator are there any more questions? And at this time there are no further questions.
Sir are there any closing remarks? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Sure.
I just want to say thank you to everybody.
We had a heck of a first half of the year.
The franchise is doing fabulous.
We're coming off a year where we were the highest level of customer satisfaction that's our ultimate barometer.
But financially we're great; operationally we're great.
Southern Power's doing fine.
Making big progress on these big projects.
I'm very happy to report a really good first six months and look forward to the next six months.
Thank you all for being on the call.
Thank you for following us and look forward to talking with you soon.
Have a great afternoon.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude The Southern Company's second quarter 2015 earnings call.
We thank you for participating in today's call and you may now disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon.
My name is Julian and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Southern Company's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded Wednesday October 28 of 2015.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
I would now turn the call over to Mr.
Dan Tucker Senior Vice President and Treasurer.
Please go ahead sir.
Treasurer</strong> Thank you Julian and welcome everyone to Southern Company's third quarter 2015 earnings call.
Joining me this afternoon are Tom Fanning Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Company; and Art Beattie Chief Financial Officer.
Let me remind you that we will make forward-looking statements today in addition to providing historical information.
Various important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements including those discussed in our 2014 Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
In addition we will present non-GAAP financial information on this call.
Reconciliations to the applicable GAAP measure are included in the financial information we released this morning as well with the slides for this conference call.
The slides we will discuss on today's call may be viewed on our Investor Relations website at investor.southerncompany.com.
At this time I'll turn the call over to Tom.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
As always we appreciate your interest in Southern Company.
As you can see from the earnings materials we released this morning and the announcement we made last night we have a lot of good news to share today.
First our traditional operating companies continue to operate superbly in the third quarter of 2015 and they're on track to deliver on their financial targets for 2015.
Second Southern Power also performed exceptionally well in the third quarter exceeding our expectations.
So so far this year Southern Power has announced 12 new renewable projects with an ownership stake in these facilities of just over 1000 megawatts.
Third we've entered into an agreement to settle the commercial litigation associated with Vogtle units 3 and 4 and better position the project for the remaining months of its construction.
And four we achieved a major technical milestone in our Kemper facility with outstanding initial results in the fluidization testing phase of start-up.
In a few moments Art will discuss the drivers of our third quarter performance in more depth and provide our earnings estimate for the remainder of the year.
Let's now discuss the project – I mean the progress on Vogtle and Kemper in more detail.
First an update on Plant Vogtle units 3 and 4.
As you may have seen in our disclosures we've agreed on terms to resolve the outstanding litigation with our EPC contractors.
As we've shared previously on these calls we believe the main obstacle to resolving these issues outside of court was the disagreement that existed among and between the contractors themselves.
In a major move to resolve these disagreements Westinghouse has agreed to purchase Stone &amp; Webster the AP1000 construction arm of CB&amp;I and consortium partner in our EPC contract.
Under the proposed transaction Westinghouse and its affiliates would serve as the prime contractor for the project.
Not only is this expected to make activities more efficient at the work site it would also remove a lingering concern about contractor financial stability.
Contemporaneous with that transaction's closing we will agree to settle our commercial dispute.
The proposed settlement contains the following key terms: first all open claims including any potential extension of those claims as well as future claims that could have been asserted under the original terms of the EPC agreement will be dismissed.
This includes the ongoing litigation in Augusta Georgia.
Second the EPC agreement will be amended to restrict the contractors' ability to seek further increases in the contract price by limiting changes which constitute NRC changes in law.
Third the guaranteed substantial completion dates in the EPC agreement will be extended to June 30 2019 for Unit 3 and June 30 2020 for Unit 4 consistent with the current project construction schedule.
In exchange for these benefits Georgia Power has agreed to pay approximately $350 million.
The cash impact of this amount are as follows: $121 million has already been paid as Georgia Power's share of disputed invoices; $114 million is to be paid upon the finalization of the agreement; and $114 million has been structured as milestone and incentive payment heavily weighted to fuel load in December of 2018 and December of 2019.
We are very pleased with these terms as they would achieve several key very important objectives.
First these terms reaffirm our current schedule and incentivize the contractor to meet it.
Second the term streamline resource deployment by removing inefficient contractor interaction.
Third it should reduce the risk associated with potential future claim.
And four these terms reinforce how well the EPC contract protects customers.
In fact customer rate impact for Vogtle units 3 and 4 even with this settlement are projected to be well within the previously disclosed range of 6% to 8%.
In fact our current projection including the settlement is less than 7%.
With 4.5% already in Georgia Power's rate this suggests that the rate increases through the completion of the project will be less than 2.5%.
Moreover the proposed settlement amount is significantly less than the amount of the contractor claims in the current litigation which only includes their estimated cost for approximately 21 months of delay.
Without a settlement the contractors could have asserted additional claims including their estimated cost for all or some portion of up to 18 months of further delays.
As a part of the settlement we also sought additional protection from similar lawsuits in the future.
We believe the proposed amendment to the change in law provisions of the EPC contracts are perhaps the most significant element of the agreement.
So again we are gratified to have reached this agreement which with a proposed settlement cost of approximately $350 million we believe that this proposed settlement is exceedingly favorable for customers and for the overall success of the project.
The Georgia PSC has been briefed on key terms of the agreement.
Their initial reaction was positive and they understand that it removes a significant overhang.
Georgia Power will submit the ultimate settlement agreement and related amendments to the EPC agreement to the PSC for a more detailed review.
Finally as anticipated on our last call we achieved several major milestones this last quarter for Vogtle units 3 and 4.
The most notable was the placement of the CA01 module in Unit 3.
Located inside the containment vessel this module will house the steam generators.
At 2.3 million pounds this was the heaviest lift to-date on the project.
We also began installing the first of many shield-building panels for Unit 3 and we installed the CA04 module for Unit 4.
This module will ultimately have the reactor vessel for Unit 4 which is already on site.
Let's turn now to an update on the Kemper County facility.
During our earnings call one year ago we announced that the combined cycle was in service and that the remaining construction schedule for Kemper had been extended into the first half of 2016 and that we plan to take a very methodical approach to the completion and start-up of the remainder of that facility.
Today those decisions are benefiting the entire project.
The combined cycle has been performing exceptionally well for more than a year providing some $23 million in energy savings for Mississippi Power customers.
The gas plant has been operating with an equivalent forced outage rating of less than 1% compared with an industry average of more than 6%.
We are also well under way with major start-up activities.
Last week we began fluidization trials on the first of the two gasifiers.
As a reminder the fluidization test is a process in which sand is used as a substitute for lignite in order to test the flow of solids through the gasifier vessel.
Not only does this process validate a critical component and scale-up of these technologies but it also allows the operations team to test and fine-tune control systems beyond what is possible with simulators.
We are extremely pleased with the results so far.
In fact the tests are going even better than what we expected; and we will take valuable lessons learned into the testing of the second gasifier later this year.
In addition we plan to conduct final commissioning of our lignite preparation systems over the next several weeks and begin the cure-out process for the gasifier refractory in preparation for the first production of syngas.
As disclosed yesterday in our 8-K we've increased the estimated cost subject to cost cap by approximately $150 million.
Approximately $60 million of this amount has been incurred to address issues identified through our start-up and checkout process as well as to help prepare the plant to operate more reliably with either lignite or natural gas.
These efforts have positioned the project for the success we are experiencing today with the major start-up activities.
The remainder of the increased cost is for additional schedule contingencies we expect to incur with an in-service still scheduled for the first half of 2016 consistent with our previous and current disclosure.
As we've said many times in the past we will not take shortcuts or sacrifice safety in order to expedite completion of the plant and we remain committed to providing a world-class generating facility for customers.
Finally with respect to regulatory matters in Mississippi our immediate focus is on getting permanent rates in place for the assets already placed in service.
Hearings are scheduled to begin November 10 and we expect a decision from the Public Service Commission on or before December 8.
I'll now turn the call over to Art for a financial update.
Thanks Tom.
For the third quarter of 2015 we earned $1.05 per share compared to $0.80 per share in the third quarter of 2014 an increase of $0.25 per share.
For the nine months ended September 30 2015 we earned $2.30 per share compared to $1.88 per share for the same period in 2014 an increase of $0.42 per share.
Earnings for the three months and nine months ended September 30 2015 include after-tax charges of $93 million or $0.11 per share; and $112 million or $0.13 per share respectively related to increased cost estimates for the construction of Mississippi Power's Kemper County project.
Earnings for the three months and nine months ended September 30 2014 include after-tax charges of $258 million or $0.29 per share and $493 million or $0.55 per share respectively related to the Kemper County project.
Earnings for the three months and nine months ended September 30 2015 also include after-tax charges of $12 million related to the proposed acquisition of AGL Resources.
Earnings for the nine months ended September 30 2015 also include a $4 million after-tax charge related to the discontinued operations of Mirant and the March 2009 settlement agreement with MC Asset Recovery LLC.
Excluding these items earnings for the third quarter of 2015 were $1.17 per share compared with 1.09 per share for the third quarter of 2014 an increase of $0.08 per share.
Earnings for the nine months ended September 30 2015 excluding these items were $2.45 per share compared with $2.43 per share for the same period in 2014 an increase of $0.02 per share.
Earnings for the third quarter of 2015 were driven by positive retail revenue effects in our traditional operating companies partially offset by increased operations and maintenance expenses.
Quarter-over-quarter earnings were also positively impacted by Southern Power's recent project development and acquisition success.
A more detailed summary of our quarter-over-quarter earnings drivers can be found in the slide deck posted on our website.
The southeastern economy continues to grow supported by robust employment growth a steady recovery in the housing sector stronger than expected consumer spending and continued in-migration into our region.
As a result we experienced positive growth in retail sales in the third quarter as total weather-adjusted retail sales increased 0.2% over the third quarter of 2014 and 0.6% on a year-to-date basis.
Weather-adjusted residential sales were up 0.1% over the third quarter of 2014 and 0.5% year-to-date.
This growth has been driven primarily by customer growth which is approaching historical norms for the first time since the recession.
For the first nine months of 2015 nearly 28 000 residential customers were added across the Southern Company's system with 38 000 added in the last 12 months.
Weather-adjusted commercial sales were up 1% during the third quarter of 2015 compared with the same period in 2014.
Growth in commercial sales has been consistent across all three quarters this year and reflects improved in-migration growth in the residential customer base modest income improvement and increased consumer confidence and spending.
Consistent with this data the Atlanta office market absorbed almost 2.2 million square feet in 2015 driving the vacancy rate below 17%; the lowest level since the end of 2008.
While industrial sales are up 0.5% year-to-date they fell 0.6% during the third quarter.
A strong dollar low oil prices and weak global growth condition continue to constrain growth in the industrial sector.
Exports remain on a downward trend although our region continues to fare better than the rest of the nation.
While the performance of industrial segments such as chemicals primary metals and paper has lagged those results had been at least partially offset by improved performance in the Transportation segment and in construction-related segments such as lumber and stone clay and glass.
Our economic development pipeline remains robust and on a positive long-term trajectory.
In September Mercedes-Benz announced that it will be producing a new hybrid SUV at its Vance Alabama plant.
This $1.3 billion project will result in the expansion of its SUV assembly shop and the creation of 300 new jobs in 2017.
Tuscaloosa-based SMP Group and Birmingham-based Magma International both suppliers to Mercedes-Benz plan to add 600 jobs and 350 jobs respectively.
You will recall that Mercedes-Benz is moving its headquarters to Atlanta.
It's recently been announced that Lincoln Financial Group will also relocate to Atlanta adding 600 jobs in 2016.
In addition Norcross Georgia-based Suniva a manufacturer of solar panels has also announced it will add 500 jobs in the immediate near-term.
To-date more than 12 000 new jobs have been announced in our service region this year.
This represents an increase of more than 250% compared to the first nine months of 2014.
The projected investment for new projects announced year-to-date is $4.8 billion a 95% increase over the same period in 2014.
Before I share our earnings outlook for the remainder of 2015 I'd like to provide an update on Southern Power capital expenditures resulting from the recent successes that Tom noted earlier.
In February of this year we provided a forecast for Southern Power capital investments totaling $1.4 billion with $600 million of that set aside for placeholder projects.
Southern Power's success in finding value-accretive projects has exceeded our expectations.
Strong relationships tax appetite and a proven ability to close transactions has made Southern Power an attractive partner for acquisitions in the renewable market.
As a result Southern Power is now projected to have capital investments totaling $2.3 billion for 2015.
Similarly for 2016 Southern Power has already secured project investments consistent with our earlier forecast of $1.3 billion with even more projects still under consideration for that year.
We are optimistic that Southern Power will exceed its current forecast for 2016 much as it has surpassed its 2015 forecast.
Since 2010 when Southern Power made its first investment in utility scale solar with the Cimarron Solar Facility Southern Power has developed one of the nation's largest contracted renewable portfolios with more than 1600 megawatts of generating capacity announced acquired or under construction.
Key attributes of this portfolio include: long-term contracts averaging more than 20 years in length; high credit-worthy counter parties; and a long-term low volatility cash profile that is an excellent complement to the rest of Southern Power's generation portfolio as well as to Southern Company's overall financial objectives.
Turning now to our fourth quarter estimate or earnings per share guidance for 2015.
Our fourth quarter estimate is $0.43 per share.
This implies a year-end result of $2.88 per share excluding charges associated with Kemper AGL and Mirant-related items which is at the very top of our annual guidance range of $2.76 to $2.88 per share.
I'll now turn the call back over to Tom for his closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Art.
As evidenced by our discussion today the third quarter of 2015 was indeed a remarkable quarter.
However I would be remiss not to mention that the most significant measure of our performance is always customer satisfaction.
With that in mind I am pleased to report that our four traditional franchise utilities have once again ranked in the top quartile for customer satisfaction for the 14th consecutive year in our annual Customer Value Benchmark survey.
Among three national peer utilities I mean Alabama Power Gulf Power and Georgia Power are the only utilities to rank in the top quartile for all three customer classes: residential general business and large business.
As always it is our customer-focused business model with its emphasis on outstanding reliability best-in-class customer service and rates below the national average that remain the cornerstone of our business and a key driver of long-term value to Southern Company's shareholders.
We are now ready to take your questions.
Operator we'll now take the first question.
One moment please for the first question.
And our first question today comes from the line of Anthony Crowdell from Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Anthony how are you? Hey man.
Never been better.
How about yourself? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
Doing great.
Just two quick questions the first on Southern Power.
I mean what is that company seeing in the market right now for price of like utility scale solar? Well Anthony this is Art.
It depends on the PPA contract and how old it might be.
More recent contracts are priced a lot lower than the older ones; and that's a function of kind of the timeframe of when that original PPA was established.
So I have a hard time giving you an answer about – that wouldn't be very meaningful to you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The general trend is newer contracts are cheaper than older contracts.
Prices are coming down.
Okay.
And moving to Kemper I mean you guys seem like you're making some great headway at Kemper in start-up.
But earlier this month the Mississippi staff had filed a recommendation or I guess their view of the project and they're looking at something I guess a start-up date much different than what the company is forecasting.
Are there any big differences or things you think maybe the staff has missed and why you're more optimistic on the first half 2016 start-up where I think the Mississippi staff engineer put it somewhere like a 30% likelihood of a 2016 start-up? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Anthony it really goes to kind of people's assessment after the technology risk.
This is a first-of-a-kind technology.
And if I had to kind of segment the four big tests we've been going through the first one I think was a test of I'm going to call it the structural integrity when we pressurize the whole facility.
The second test really went to first fire of the boiler.
The third test is this fluidization test.
The fourth test will be essentially turning lignite into syngas.
And when I think about that the most important of these tests I think from a technical standpoint was this fluidization test.
Recall that scale-up from Wilsonville to Plant Ratcliffe at Kemper County is about 100-to-1; and I think different people saw our ability to do that differently.
In fact I know there were some people that were very dubious of our ability to achieve that kind of performance with scale-up.
Just as serendipity would have it I was at the plant walking the plant site and in the control room on the day that we passed the first test.
It started at midnight and went through – and actually it's still going through right now.
But I can tell you once we hit the fluidization process it was amazingly stable.
Even in say the first eight hours of the test it was amazingly stable.
Obviously there's always little fine-tunings; and that's one of the things that they're working on through the balance of the fluidization test for Unit A.
But I would just say that outsiders looking at this technical process would have put a lot more risk associated with that.
The fact that – look I should say this we expect it to be successful; we didn't expect it to be as good as it went.
So we're very happy with it.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Thank you bud.
Our next question comes from Dan Eggers from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good afternoon guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Dan.
Tom just – hey.
Just on the renegotiation on Vogtle you guys have long said that your contract was a fixed-fee contract lot of protection and it seems like your renegotiated that contract in exchange for money.
Can you like tell me or lay out for me what pieces got better in the contract from what you had before to justify the extra money going to the EPC guys? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So Dan if you think about what gave rise to the commercial disputes and the litigation the original agreement resulted in disputes that arose from field interpretations of a broad range of NRC regulatory requirements.
In other words the contract said you've got to do it if the NRC regulator requires you to do it; they would dispute a field interpretation of a requirement Dan.
The revision in the language which is much tighter says that going forward only new regulations or guidance documents so these are actual pieces of paper that are officially issued and acknowledged by the NRC as changes to the agency's previous positions will be considered owner's responsibility is a very much narrower definition as to what's eligible for a change order.
That's a really big deal.
Okay.
And I guess that Toshiba certainly had other problems in the press but how did you guys get comfortable with concentrating your performance needs on them? And did they make any financial guarantees to put collateral or credit aside to cover if they end up running overruns that are on their tab versus your tab? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Oh my gosh! I think we're in so much of a better shape.
Dan you could phrase the question that way or you could phrase the question about CBI and the all the concerns there.
Basically we put Westinghouse right in the front seat.
And you may recall from the issues you raised about Toshiba Westinghouse has taken its accounting charges I think around 2013 somewhere around that timeframe.
And they were not subject to their business Westinghouse's business was not subject to a lot of the concerns that Toshiba entered into in its accounting problems.
So Westinghouse itself did the hard work earlier in time.
They are not impacted directly.
And we think that going forward the balance of risk is much improved for the project for Westinghouse to take the prime contractor role and not have to deal with kind of a codependent control with CBI.
We're much better off.
Okay.
And I'm sorry for belaboring this.
I just want to make sure that I understand the pieces.
But you guys and scan (30:50) are now targeting the same in-service dates or guaranteed in-service dates for your units.
Is there enough trade labor to be executing kind of the same finishing work at the same time? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
We have all the labor we need on-site; and let's be very clear that labor now transfers from CBI to Westinghouse largely for the most part.
And we believe while whatever you say about kind of on the schedule dates we think we're about two months kind of ahead on a schedule basis at least than they are.
We believe we've got plenty of personnel.
You may have also seen that Westinghouse has entered into some conversations with Fluor about augmenting personnel at the sites.
So we feel great about where we are there.
Very good.
Thank you guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes sir.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman from Wolfe Research.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Steve.
Tom hi.
Good afternoon.
A couple of questions.
First just kind of a technical question on your financing slides in here.
So you have I think $2.12 billion of equity over the next three years in here and the last time you did this slide after the AGL deal there was none.
Is that just that you're now including the equity to fund the AGL deal in the plan and that's the only difference? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes sir.
That's correct.
Okay.
That's what I thought.
Secondly on Southern Power maybe just overall what kind of returns are you earning on these projects that you've won over the last year or what kind of expected returns? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Every project's a little different.
We've kind of been over this in calls in the past.
We use the same methodology that we used in the past.
In other words we use a hurdle rate that looks like a yield curve.
And the shape of the yield curve or the requirement where you are on the yield curve is based on a variety of factors including the term of the contract any of the project specific risks things like that.
In general what we have kind of said is that the ROE the book ROE of Southern Power is expected to exceed kind of our regulated book ROE by some amount.
And again it depends.
The longer term contracts will resemble a utility return.
If in fact there are greater risks in a utility project then we can see 150 basis points higher.
That would be the general range that I would be looking for.
And that's good for not just the whole so that's good for the new investments that you've been making (33:37).
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Absolutely right.
And how generally are you levering these projects? 50-50? Southern Power's about 45% equity 55% debt; and that's the way we've financed that organization for years now.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
We think that corporate financing is much more effective more flexible cheaper than project financing.
Okay.
And may I just...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Excuse me Steve one more thing just to be clear.
When we look at these things they're all on an IRR and cash basis.
You asked the book return but same thing.
Okay yeah.
Yeah no so it's low teens low to mid-teens IRRs – or excuse me levered IRRs? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
For an unlevered IRR it would be 6% to 7% depending on what – it would be just identical.
Just like I said either identical to or slightly higher than what we would be out of the core utility business.
Okay.
And then just so I understand based on this kind of new what's locked up for Southern Power on the update that you've given.
Roughly what level of ITCs do you expect to have in 2015 and 2016 or at least in 2015? Could you give us that number? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'll get somebody to...
Hold on a second.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We're getting the number now.
But we're assuming in everything we're looking at that the 30% ITC goes away in 2017.
So it's just 2015 and 2016 left.
Frankly our relationship that we've developed with the people like First Solar and others our ability to execute quickly our tax appetite have all given us I think this kind of flow of deal our way.
Yeah.
Steve the number is – I can't find the number.
The number I recall is about $55 million this year; and that probably compares to $45 million to $48 million last year; somewhere in that range.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We'll get it for you later.
Okay.
And then lastly it looks like based on the fourth quarter projection you're going to end up the year at about the higher end of your range for 2015? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
(36:12).
Right.
So if you were to say what's driving you kind of being at the higher end is it primarily the higher Southern Power investment or something else? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
It's operating companies performing as we thought they would plus what we know is going to happen with Southern Power.
If you look at our past three four quarters it's about $0.43 a share; somewhere around there.
Yeah.
If you look our fourth quarter earnings have run across the board.
It depends on what kind of weather year we've had.
But as I look for the year-end Steve I'm looking year-over-year; I expect maybe $0.05 of the accretion year-over-year to come from Southern Power maybe $0.06 from the operating companies a penny from our parent and maybe minus $0.04 on shares.
And that would account for the $0.08 increase from $2.80 to $2.88.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Maybe if you just look at our past three years' performance of earnings per share in 2012 through 2014 we went $0.44 $0.48 $0.38.
We feel very confident about our ability to hit our numbers.
Okay great.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks man.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Weinstein from UBS.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Michael.
Hey.
How are you doing? Quick question on Kemper is are you seeing the first half of 2016 for commercial and service how about the deadlines for tax credits and I think it's April is that right? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's right.
Are you thinking – I guess does the successful test give you any confidence about trying to meet that deadline? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well by taking the contingency for the next three months we're suggesting that the probable outcome is not to make that but we'll only...
There's an opportunity that we could...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
And there's still opportunity to hit that date.
Great.
And in terms of the $350 million how does that compare to the press numbers that we had earlier seen about the lawsuit.
I mean is it $900 million I believe I recall plus extra growth on top of that for other items? And does the $350 million represent basically – is that a resolution of the entire $900 million-plus? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
It's actually bigger than $900 million-plus.
If you think about it our share if you kind of gross up our share in disclosures the current litigation was around $1.5 billion something like that.
Now that's total.
And then what we also – that was for the first kind of 21 months of delays.
Recall also we're wiping away potential extension of current litigation for the next 18 months that would carry us through to in-service dates in the middle of 2019 and 2020.
And we also tightened up recall Westinghouse taking over for CBI; plus we tightened up in a very significant way the ability for the contractor to provide change orders that would be agreed upon.
Right.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So when you add all those up we think the settlement is very attractive.
Does this mean that the contractors are picking up the other part of the 1-point-something-billion above the $350 million in their lawsuits? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> If that's the real number.
Yeah if that's the real number.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We always disputed that.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes sir.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim von Riesemann from Mizuho Sec.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> JvR.
Inc.</span></strong> Tom Fanning.
How are you? How are those yellow jackets doing? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey.
After last weekend they're doing great.
Inc.</span></strong> Exactly.
Couple of questions.
The first one I guess is – the first several questions are on Kemper.
When do you get to run the lignite through for the syngas test? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Right around the end of the year; could be early January but – yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And I've got to tell you like I said I was walking around the plant I was in the control room met with plant management later that day.
The general belief is we're going to be able to manipulate lignite a lot easier than sand.
Sand is a denser material.
They all felt that if we could pass this test the way we were doing they really felt they're going to be able to handle the lignite pretty well.
So they're feeling good.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then the second question on the whole Kemper thing is do you need to see the whole plant operational before you can file the second rate case in Mississippi? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think that's the intention.
I mean the whole plant it needs to be CoD.
Inc.</span></strong> That's what I meant yeah.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just switching over to the settlement.
I know there's a lot of – congratulations on getting that done – but I'm just having a tough time still understanding how those risks are bucketed now that it's done.
So let's just say you get to 2020-2019 and everything else and you're going to start seeing some delays.
How does all that work? And who bears what risk I guess is the question I'm really asking longer term? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So let me operate in kind of the world of 100% dollars as opposed to Georgia Power dollars.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> But we've guided installment payments on this last $114 million such that fuel load now becomes the kind of operative target in the contract.
In 100% dollars $35 million is tied to fuel load on year-end 2018 and $35 million is tied to fuel load on December of 2019.
And to the extent they miss I think it's about $10 million a month – something like that – that that number would be reduced.
So not only is this third $114 million staged to milestones over time it also is heavily weighted as an incentive to hit fuel load when we said it would.
Now here's my other editorial comment.
You remember when the consortium changed their schedule.
There was a lot going on behind the scenes and you heard kind of the probable angst in our voice about that these problems are being driven not really by the performance of the project but by arguments and disputes among the training contractors.
It was our belief that they gave us a schedule that they can improve on.
We believe given what everybody has agreed to here that they're going to be able to hit this schedule.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
But in the unlikely event what you're saying is let's say this thing slips into 2021 or something for the first unit who absorbs the PTC in the absence of the PTCs? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well there would be $10 million reductions in the incentive payments there would be liquidated damages.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay okay.
I got it.
I just wanted to make sure I was reading it correctly.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> Super.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you buddy.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Agha from SunTrust.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Ali.
How are you? Inc.</span></strong> Hi Tom.
How are you? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Super.
Inc.</span></strong> Couple of things.
One is Tom if I look at your weather normalized retail sales we saw the slowdown in the third quarter and you were at 0.6% through the nine months.
So how does that 1.3% for the year target look now and what's realistically the target we should be looking at for the year and looking beyond that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah it's less.
You know what Ali I mean not to kind of wear the Fed thing out but we're seeing the same things the Fed is seeing especially when you look at kind of the leading and the lagging nature of these indicators.
Industrial sales are a leading indicator; commercial sales are typically your lagging indicator.
Well it looks as if the leading indicator is slowing and the lagging indicator is what's really carrying the day.
So that's kind of interesting.
I think the Fed is wrestling – and Art went through a litany of kind of the data.
I think the Fed is wrestling with those same things.
If they now begin liftoff and communicate a trajectory what does that say about the confidence of the continued recovery given all the exogenous factors like malaise in Europe event risk Russia Middle East lack of transparency in China.
These are the things we're all wrestling with.
The good news as Art said is kind of Atlanta for example.
Top five in the United States in job creation and in in-migration.
In fact we were fourth in job creation I think only to Houston Dallas and Phoenix.
Inc.</span></strong> Correct.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So that's all good stuff.
If you look at our economic development pipeline 15 600 jobs announced – 12 000.
Inc.</span></strong> 12 000.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> 12 600 jobs announced in the year 2015 and that will take place from 2015 through 2018; almost $5 billion in capital.
The economic development arm looks pretty good.
And so we kind of say to ourselves what is this? Is this a permanent flattening? Is this a secular change in the growth of the United States economy or is this a pausing in which now as we adjust to a different export environment and monetary environment we'll catch up? What would you add to that? Yeah.
Ali I think if you look at the numbers industrial is really the one that's lagging the most.
And as you remember from a revenue perspective that is the least impactful to our company.
But if you had them at 1% growth rather than a 0.5% growth we'd be up close to a 1% growth year-over-year on a year-to-date basis almost actually 1.3%.
But we're really pleased with the commercial end of the business.
We've been waiting for a number of years for that to come around and it has.
Customer growth has been very strong.
That's again a reflection of in-migration.
Use per customer is still eating away that.
That's a bit of the efficiency gain that we're seeing through natural occurrence with appliance replacement and those kinds of things.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Not only energy efficiency but also this kind of – we think here again a secular shift away from single-family housing to multi-family housing.
And that's really driven by just kind of new tougher credit guidelines as well as it may be with the millennials they like being flexible and living in apartments rather than undertaking big fixed investments like owning a house.
So we want to see how that shakes out too.
Inc.</span></strong> So at this point embedded in your full-year numbers Tom what would be sort of the weather normalized load growth we should be looking at? Weather-normalized number for retail sales about 0.7%.
I mean that's just a pure guess.
But seeing what we're seeing in the industrial market and we expect the commercial market to do well that's about what we think.
Inc.</span></strong> And you've talked about I think 1.2% 1.3% sort of longer term as well and in growth.
Is that still what you feel is the right number? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
We're going to relook that and we'll update you on that on the next quarter's call when we look at the full-year 2016 through 2019.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Separate question.
Tom coming back to Southern Power for a sec.
So given that you've obviously exceeded your targets and you've got a bigger portfolio what's sort of the underlying annual net income run rate that this portfolio is now running for you? Obviously higher than you were previously thinking.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah man.
So it was fascinating when you kind of break down where we were into 2015.
We knew just because they have contracts in place they were kind of below $150 million in net income; and then we gave them kind of a stretch target to hit that would get them up to about $180 million.
So when we thought about developing the financial plan we kind of had a number in there of about $180 million.
And with everything we know now we're going to be over $200 million more likely $210 million.
And so we'll see.
So we've done better.
My sense is we're going to see similar performance even though we haven't set all these numbers yet.
I'm just telling you what I think.
I think we're going to see similar performance next year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then in the past you talked about the headwind that would be created by the ITC going from 30% to 10%.
How should we now think about that as we're thinking about 2017? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Well this is kind of fun to think about.
Because we've been very public and I hope you guys give us credit for this.
We're very transparent on how we see growth rates and everything else.
And when we tell you what we believe about growth it's because we can see it with reasonable kind of stretch targets we think we can do what we say we're going to do.
When we reduced our growth rate to 3% to 4% it was because of all of these factors; and we were very transparent in telling you about – I think the funny word I used was divot in 2017.
That would be represented by the loss of 30% investment tax credit and likely fewer projects for solar in that and maybe wind helps fill that in.
And then we said that we would resume a growth rate that would be more attractive once we saw more environmental spending at the end of the decade and into the 2020's as well as the response to the clean power plant.
And then we did the AGL merger.
So let's think about the slugs of kind of EPS growth.
2015 and 2016 you're seeing Southern Power outperform our internal targets; and so you're seeing growth there.
From 2017 2018 2019 because AGL has very predictable and transparent earning streams resulting from safety-related pipeline replacement programs that are under rate riders.
We already know Georgia Illinois potentially other states.
We can see and I think we suggested that you would see something like $0.10 a share or so in the 2017 2018 2019 timeframe okay? So we bump up there on top of whatever Southern Power can produce.
And then some of those projects continue into the 2020's.
And then you see in the 2020s now I think now you have time to get to the ramifications of environmental spending plus new generation required by the clean power plant.
So not only will that be more renewable it will be more combined cycle probably displacing coal as well as more combustion turbines needed to respond to the intermittency of greater penetrating renewable resources.
So if you look at it the first slug is going to be Southern Power the second slug will be Southern Power plus AGL the third slug will be Southern Power AGL plus clean power plant and environmental spending.
And so I think we'll give you more guidance about our growth rate in January.
Suffice to say we did say that our new kind of longer term trajectory assuming we close AGL will be in the 4% to 5% range.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
It's very helpful.
Last question on AGL financing have you gotten the credit rating agencies completely on board with your financing plan or is that still being worked on? Well we had discussions with the agencies prior to the announcement.
And we outlined the financing plan for them issuing equity over a three-year timeframe and that we believe that our metrics will be consistent with where we are before where we are today by the time we get to 2019.
We'll issue a lot of debt upfront but over time we'll get our metrics back to a point where they're consistent with where we started.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you sir.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson from Glenrock Associates.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Paul.
Good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Whatever.
Well just to follow up on I was a little unclear about Mike Weinstein's question about the Kemper tax credit.
You guys do expect to get the plant up by April to get it is that what you were – it wasn't completely clear.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We think that we might or might not.
We've added three months of reserve contingency to be conservative to say that we might not make March 31; it might be as late as June 30.
So that's the financial charge we made.
Obviously we've got to hit the date in April in order to get the ITC.
If we don't and it has a cash impact its book impact is about $3 million a year somewhere like that.
And we could supplant it with other available tax credits that we're seeking to get from the IRS due to the nature of the plant.
Okay.
And then with respect to the – when do you expect the gasifier I guess? I've got an idea of where you expect the lignite testing but after the lignite testing which I guess is the end of this year when do you think that it'll be as a milestone in terms of when it will actually be commercially able to produce synthetic gas I guess? Or I mean when will we know that? I mean what's in between the lignite testing and the actual sort of commercial operation of the gasifier? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well so what will be going there you're going to get really good indication on reliable syngas to turbines okay? So that's a big deal.
The other things that you're going to get will just need to be tested along that timeframe will be acid gas removal.
So let's think about this for a minute.
Recall that we're going to take the syngas we're going to take out 65% of the CO2 and we are going to also take out sulfuric acid and also ammonia.
All of those by-products have value and that goes into the total value premise to the Mississippi's customers.
And recall also that while we'll do first syngas to turbine around the end of the year sometime in order to get CoD; we want to have both trains operational both trains checked out.
I will – just a new piece of – not a new I guess (55:51) also but we tested out the flushing of the systems of the acid gas removal systems and actually we provided for three complete tests of that and we did it in two.
And I want to say that the benefit of doing it in two was a three-week benefit.
It was something like that.
That also went exceedingly well.
Look I know we're taking a long time and I know we're taking some pain for taking the right amount of time but what you're getting out of Kemper and you've seen it already is that what we have built and tested is working beautifully.
The combined cycle is working as good as any combined cycle in the United States.
And these major systems of the gasifier are working well.
So I know we've all me particularly have had to have patience here but I think we're taking the right approach.
Okay great.
I mean just to sort of – last quarter I asked you about sort of the MMBtu sort of operational cost of the gasification process and I think you guys were sort of around the generally speaking around 250 in MMBtu.
Do you guys feel better about that number or is that pretty much where you guys still feel now that you've gotten three months more and accomplished so much more with the testing and everything? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
And let's review the bidding there.
You remember it correctly.
What we were tying that to that was an estimate based on I think $50 oil because that's how we price the CO2.
It's basically on index.
And we have to take or pay contracts in that regard.
I've kind of wiped away the variability around ammonia and sulfuric acid.
So that's kind of correct.
The other thing that's really interesting that we're building the capability to do we've alluded to it in the comments this afternoon but is a quick switching capability between syngas and natural gas.
That should help our reliability characteristics in meeting plant performance criteria.
So we're going to be able to deliver to Mississippi's customers attractive economic natural gas electricity whatever the fuel markets deliver to us.
Okay great.
And then just finally on AGL you guys went over the checklist and what have you but obviously you've had discussions I assume with parties and stuff and others.
Any sort of color you want to give on terms of that and how things seem there? I mean anything pop up or not or...? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes you bet.
Listen we've met with regulators both in Illinois New Jersey other places.
Recall we have a real ace in the hole here and that is our Chief Counsel's Jim Carr.
Jim Carr used to be a commissioner on a North Carolina commission.
He was also President of NARUC.
And I can tell you with personal observation when you walk in a room with Jim Carr to the New Jersey Commission or the Illinois Commission and he knows the people and they know him and he already has trust and if you will brand equity.
It is a tremendous kind of benefit to have.
The other thing that I don't want to underestimate when we entered into the merger with AGL they run a heck of a business in the jurisdictions in which they serve.
I can tell you personally talking to the Chairman of the Illinois Commission and all the other commissioners there it was very clear that AGL when they bought Nicor made several promises about how they would operate that business and they have followed through and even more so on every promise they've made.
So they have great credibility.
Given kind of our reputation our customer satisfaction criteria our embracing of an integrated regulated business our customer focused business model when you look at our data number one in the United States we are getting very constructive responses to everything that we've done so far.
Excellent.
Thanks a lot guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes sir.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Michael.
Hey Tom.
You're right that Georgia Tech ending reminded me of an Alabama-Auburn one I'd rather forget.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
It was way better than that one.
Got a question for you.
What is your outlook what is Southern's outlook for the potential for renewable development within the utility service territories in Georgia Alabama Florida Mississippi? Which ones do you think have the opportunity to have incremental renewables? Where do you think that could happen in rate base versus PPA with third parties? And which are the ones that may be a little bit further behind in the process but have the potential to play catch-up down the road? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
It's a fascinating question.
Every one of our companies right now has a solar program in place.
And you want to know something that's even more interesting? I've been a critic of renewable portfolio standards.
All of our companies have entered into these agreements without the hammer of a renewable portfolio requirement.
You may know also that we've had a longstanding outstanding relationship with the DoD.
And it occurred to us that the DoD nationally and this is why we've tried to strike this relationship that they have had kind of a renewables requirement on their own and a severability requirement on their own and we have worked to play offense with these folks to provide them real solutions not only to meet these requirements but to give them more sustainable operation from a base standpoint going forward.
So all of that has worked exceptionally well.
It is clear to me that as the clean power plan goes forward you're going to see a lot more solar particularly in our state.
You might see wind but you know I've been just a little bit of a critic of wind for the southeast only because the best wind resources are way far away from us.
The three deals we've done on wind for the host utilities really are located in Kansas and Oklahoma.
The right long-term electricity design for America is not to rely on long haul transmission networks to move electricity.
You're always better off from a physical design standpoint to locate the generation near the load resource.
So solar's going to make more of a penetration than wind in the southeast.
We might be able to do some wind in the southeast; we'll see.
The other things that we had some problems about in the past we've done in Texas but we haven't done in the southeast is biomass.
If we could ever get back in that business I think the southeast is a good place to go.
And if you want to think about other kind of resources that are going to be particularly important to meeting clean power plan nuclear and hydro.
We never count hydro as part of renewable resources we probably should.
And when I think about kind of if you add up all the wind all the solar biomass and hydro we're approaching something like 7000 megawatts owned or controlled by our company.
That's where it's going to go.
And along with that there will be combined cycle gas as base load supplanting coal CTs to handle the intermittency and more gas infrastructure which we've been talking about for some time that we'll be able to move the shale gas from where it is to where it needs to be.
Got it.
Thank you Tom.
Much appreciated.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Barnett from Morningstar.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Mark.
Hey.
Good afternoon guys.
Just a quick – you've provided a little bit of information on how you see the economic landscape unfolding right now.
And I know it's not something you typically provide but on the commercial and industrial load trends that you're seeing is there any way you could give us a little more granularity on maybe Alabama versus Georgia and how those two large territories are either diverging or kind of moving together? Well on the industrial side Alabama is probably gotten more of their kilowatt hour sales in industrial than Georgia but actually Georgia's industrial sales are a little bit bigger.
But their other markets are bigger too.
But Alabama is predominantly steel chemical and a little less paper than Georgia's got.
But those two have done less well here in the I guess we call it industrial recession.
Georgia has some steel not as much as Alabama.
They've got more paper.
And that has suffered a little more.
Some of that paper is down because of low gas prices and they're co-generating more of their needs because of that.
So that's a bit of what we're suffering there as long as and as well as I guess lower pulp prices for paper as well.
So if you talk about the commercial markets it's more fulsome in Georgia I would believe.
They've got a bigger commercial market especially within the metropolitan area of Atlanta.
And so that's where you're seeing the much more robust growth.
You're seeing a little bit in Alabama but not as much as in Georgia.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
And much more in-migration in Georgia than elsewhere in the system.
Yeah.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The other thing that is a big deal but we're sworn not to talk about so let me talk about it is kind of IT jobs and service – I mean server farms and all that stuff.
Those people are very sensitive about those infrastructure plays.
Don't want to talk about where they're located or who they are but we're seeing some growth there.
That's because of our reliability on price position.
Yes.
Well thanks for the color on that.
And just a quick update with the Georgia filing for the merger do you have kind of a rough timeframe for that? Any update on that or...? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Probably next month.
Next month.
Okay I'll definitely keep an eye out for it.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes sir.
Thank you.
We have a follow-up question from the line of Steve Fleishman from Wolfe Research.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon again.
So just one quick question.
The $1.5 billion of equity that you plan to do in 2016 for AGL are you going to wait until the merger closes to do that or might you look to do some kind of like forward transaction or something like that? Yeah.
We're still considering those options Steve.
But the base plan is we expect to raise the equity in the manner that we've raised it in the past and some of the internal programs – we've already turned our internal programs on beginning in October of this year.
So we'll issue in that fashion through 2019 is currently planned but we're also considering other elements of that that could possibly be used.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Like in the past we've done things like discrete issuances we've done dribble programs we've done a variety of other things.
That's what Art was hinting at.
But whatever we do we don't want to impact the market.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
That was it.
Thanks Steve.
Our next question comes from the line of Andy Levi from Avon Capital.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Andy.
How are you? I'm doing well.
Thank you very much.
Look forward to seeing you soon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah absolutely.
I am glad you moved on from CBI.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah no kidding.
I think that's very positive.
Just a question on Southern Power.
So can you qualify how much net income and cash comes from solar in 2015? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> $51 million.
That about right? In cash? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Net income – I don't know about cash.
We've got to get that detail for you after the call.
Okay.
That's fine.
And then I guess without giving out a forecast but you said about – I'm sorry are you going to say something Art? Yeah.
We were looking at each other and that $51 million was the year-over-year increase.
Okay.
So we'll get on....
Okay.
How much did you get last year? Do you know? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> From what? That would solve that.
Net income from solar.
If the $51 million is a year-over-year increase.
We'd have to add some numbers.
It'd be easier for us to get with you offline on that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think what we said earlier was $51 million on ITC.
Okay.
And again I guess in 2016 the $210 million does that have growth in solar or is it kind of – and again I know you didn't give a forecast.
Right.
But then Tom I think said that without giving out a forecast that 2016 Southern Power would be pretty close to 2015.
Didn't he say that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So what I said was when I think about the kind of projects we see what we've circled so far 2015 we're guessing we're going to have a cap allocation of around $2.3 billion.
And we already kind of circled up about $1.3 billion in 2016 which is kind of in our base plan.
So we've already circled up our base plan and then we think we should expect to see kind of similar performance for the balance.
So it wouldn't surprise me at all to see a $2.3 billion number in 2016.
But don't know it yet just what I've said.
Okay.
Andy to be clear the $210 million was a 2015 estimate.
Okay.
And how much did you invest this year in solar? Capital? Again Andy we're going to have to follow-up.
We don't have it split.
We've got some capital in there for wind and solar so I just don't have the split.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The majority of it's solar.
Okay.
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We'll get it to you.
Okay.
But I guess it's not fair to kind of look at it just on the net income basis as far as return of capital but obviously return of cash is in some ways more important right? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's enormous yeah.
Yeah.
So that's why I wanted to get the cash number.
Okay.
I'll wait till Jimmy Mann (1:12:00) calls me back.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The mayor? The mayor.
Good mayor.
That's the mayor I like.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Me too.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
And Dan Tucker congratulations.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
How about that? Treasurer</span></strong> Thanks Andy.
Yeah.
And at this time there are no further questions.
Sir are there any closing remarks? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well look we've been talking for some time and you all have been so wonderful to be patient with us.
I think we're reaching that inflection point in the story.
We've always traded on a risk-adjusted basis.
The returns are terrific.
We're one of just one or two companies like us that – we can't promise you anything in the future.
My lawyers always look at me here.
But for the last 10 years or 11 years we hit our numbers we hit generally really well within our numbers even despite duress.
And I think the risk side has been tainted somewhat with some overhangs from the Vogtle litigation and the Kemper project.
I think resolving the litigation is an enormous inflection point.
I think the technical test that we've just gone through while not removing it completely have really reduced I think significantly the technical risk in Kemper.
So I think we're really moving the company in the right way and I think the days ahead are very bright.
We thank you so much for being with us this afternoon and looking forward to seeing you in a couple weeks.
Operator that's all.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the Southern Company's third quarter 2015 earnings call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Dimitria and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Southern Company Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday February 3 2016.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Aaron Abramovitz Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Dimitria.
Welcome to Southern Company’s fourth quarter 2015 earnings call.
Joining me this afternoon are Tom Fanning Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Company; and Art Beattie Chief Financial Officer.
Let me remind you that we will make forward-looking statements today in addition to providing historical information.
Various important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements including those discussed in our Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
In addition we will present non-GAAP financial information on this call.
Reconciliations to the applicable GAAP measure are included in the financial information we released this morning as well as the slides for this conference call.
The slides we will discuss on today’s call may be viewed on our Investor Relations website at investor.southerncompany.com.
At this time I’ll turn the call over to Tom Fanning.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
As always we appreciate your interest in Southern Company.
2015 was a tremendous year for Southern company as we continue to see outstanding performance in our franchise operations.
We saw a strong financial performance from both our wholesale subsidiary Southern Power and our traditional operating companies.
Our state regulated utility delivered these 2015 results despite the warmest December in the last 120 years.
We continued our longstanding tradition of operational excellence.
Once again ranking among the best in our industry for customer satisfaction and solidifying our reputation as one of the most trusted energy providers in America.
We experienced great success with strategic initiatives as both Southern Power and our traditional operating companies continue to build the energy portfolio of the future with significant expansions of their renewable energy resources.
And then our ongoing quest to deliver superior risk-adjusted long-term growth.
We entered into an agreement to acquire AGL Resources and create a platform from which we expect to compete for growth more broadly across the energy value chain.
Now regarding AGL Resources I will just briefly add that activities related to the proposed merger are progressing in a timely fashion.
The waiting period under the HSR Antitrust Improvement Act expired in late 2015 unnecessary milestone for closing the transaction.
In addition AGL Resources shareholders voted in November to approve the merger.
The merger remained subject to certain other customary closing conditions including state regulatory approvals and we are currently engaged in regulatory proceedings for the various state commissions.
The transaction is expected to close in the second half of 2016.
In a few moments Art will discuss the drivers of our financial performance in more detail and provide guidance for 2016.
Before that however I will address the progress we’ve experienced with our major construction projects at Plant Vogtle and in Kemper County Mississippi.
First an update on the Plant Vogtle Unit 3 and 4.
As reported in our last quarterly call we agreed to a settlement with our contractors for the two new units at Plant Vogtle.
We have now finalized that settlement and the related litigated has been dismissed.
As a reminder this $350 million settlement resolved all outstanding commercial issues for the project and amends our EPC agreement to provide even greater protections for customers.
The settlement affirms and provides incentives for anticipated fuel load dates in December 2018 and 2019 as well as our expected in service dates in June 2019 and 2020.
In a related transaction Westinghouse acquired the nuclear construction arm of Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron.
This move positions Westinghouse and its affiliates as the primary contractor under our EPC agreement and they have engaged with floor to provide day-to-day construction leadership.
We’ve worked very closely with the contractors through this transition and I am pleased to say that thus far we are very encouraged by the improved communication and efficiencies we’ve observed on site.
On January 21st Georgia Power filed an application for review of the settlement with the Georgia PSC.
Yesterday the PSC made and approved a motion asking Georgia Power to file further information within the next 60 days pertaining to the prudent of the project to-date as well as the current schedule and cost forecast.
Other interested parties will have an opportunity to make filings of their own in response.
This will allow the PSC to consider the settlement agreement in the contact of a more comprehensive review of the full project cost and schedule.
The commission staff which will not make any separate filings will have six months to analyze these filings.
If the staff identifies any issues of imprudence or unreasonableness they are directed to work with Georgia Power toward a possible settlement of any such issues within that same six months period.
During this six months period there will be no hearing.
If there is a settlement between the company and the staff Georgia Power and the commission staff will file that for the commission to consider in the fall.
If the parties do not come to a settlement the commission will decide how to proceed.
Let’s turn now to an update on the Kemper County Facility.
The combined cycle performed exceptionally well in 2015 providing over one third of the electricity consumed by Mississippi Power customers last year.
Major startup activities are ongoing and we continue to transition to operational testing.
Fluidization trials on the first of two gasifiers are complete and we were able to begin the cure out process for the gasifier refractory.
The fluidization process was an important validation of the scale up of the technology as the operators were able to use the control system.
We circulate sand and air at design flow rate through the gasifiers a good rehearsal for the eventual introduction of lignite to the operation.
The team is currently working to repair a portion of the refractory on the first gasifiers and making improvements to all of the nozzles in the refractory lining of both gasifiers to address hotspots identified during the initial cure-out process for the first gasifier.
The type of work to repair and improve the refractory lining is similar to the refractory replacement there will be a common part of the plant long-term maintenance.
However these activities are time intensive and they are the primary driver for our schedule extension into the third quarter of 2016.
As always quality and safety are our top priorities as we are taking steps to help ensure that Mississippi Power’s customers will enjoy the benefits of our reliable source of low cost energy for decades to come.
We expect to introduce lignite to gasifier in the spring this critical step is the beginning of the important process of integrating all of the various systems of the facility.
In December the Mississippi Public Service Commission unanimously approved rates for the combined cycle assets already in service.
Mississippi Power plants to seek recovery of the remaining assets after they are placed into service.
Art will now provide a financial update including an outlook for 2016 and beyond.
Thanks Tom.
Good afternoon everyone.
As you can see from the materials released this morning we had solid results for the fourth quarter as well as for the full year 2015.
For the fourth quarter of 2015 we earned $0.30 per share compared to $0.31 per share in the fourth quarter of 2014.
For the full year of 2015 we earned $2.60 per share compared to $2.19 per share in 2014 an increase of $0.41 per share.
Excluding certain adjustments listed in the earnings materials earnings for the fourth quarter and full year 2015 were $0.44 $2.89 per share respectively compared with $0.38 and $2.80 per share respectively for the same periods in 2014.
As Tom mentioned earlier our adjusted annual result of $2.89 was just above the top of our 2015 guidance range we established a year ago.
The major earnings drivers when compared to our $2.80 adjusted result for 2014 where residential and commercial sales growth retail revenue effects and tremendous success with renewable projects at Southern Power.
These positive drivers were partially offset by increased shares higher depreciation operation and maintenance costs and weather.
A more comprehensive list of drivers is included in the materials we released this morning.
Moving now to an economic and sales review of 2015.
The economy within our region continues to experience modest growth favorable domestic market fundamentals include strong employment growth that have served to underpin consumer confidence in spending.
At the same time the effects of the strong dollar low commodity prices and economic weakness abroad have combined to constrain manufacturing growth in our region.
Total weather-adjusted retail sales grew by 0.3% in 2015 led by commercial sales which were up almost 1% for the year.
We experienced positive growth for the commercial sales in every quarter in 2015 which we have not seen since before the recession.
Weather-adjusted residential sales grew by 0.4% during 2015 growth in the residential sector has been fueled largely by customer growth as the Southeast continues to see positive in migration.
More than 37 000 new residential customers were added in 2015 an increase from 2014 when we added some 31 500 new customers.
Industrial sales fell by 0.3% in 2015.
We experienced a modest deceleration in industrial growth in our region as a result of the strong dollar low oil price and natural gas prices and significant economic slowdown in China and other emerging markets.
We have seen the impact of these factors on three of our largest industrial segments primary metals chemicals and paper.
However transportation and housing related industries have supported growth and we expect those segments to continue to Growth and we expect those segments to do well in 2016.
Economic development activity remains robust and consistent with previous quarter’s activities.
Job creation and capital investment for 2015 exceeded 2014 levels and the pipeline of potential projects grew significantly compared to recent years.
Corporate announcements and potential projects represent a broad cross section of industries including automotive primary and fabricated metals aerospace and chemical segments.
Also within our region Alabama was named the top state of economic development by Business Facilities Magazine and Georgia has been ranked first for business climate by Site Selection Magazine for the third consecutive year despite economic headwinds from overseas our regional economy remains in a positive growth mode.
During our most recent economic roundtable consensus of the participants was that the economy will grow in 2016 supported by robust employment and spending growth modest income gains and a steady housing recovery all pointing to further growth in energy demand.
Our sales growth guidance for 2016 is 1.1% for retail sales 1.2% for residential sales and 1% for both commercial and industrial sales.
Before we cover the detail of our capital expenditure forecast financing plan and earnings per share guidance I would like to speak to the impact of the recent extension of tax benefits on our financial outlook.
We currently project that a five year extension of bonus depreciation will improve cash flows by approximately $ billion through 2020 and potentially more assuming Southern Power is able to execute on its growth plan.
This translates to a significant uplift in the value of the enterprise.
Over the next few years some of the biggest tax benefits are expected to be generated by plant Ratcliffe plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 along with a variety of renewable energy projects and environmental compliance investments.
Considering our customer focused business model this is very good news.
All else being equal our customers should benefit from lower retail rates over time.
In addition to the implied reduction in regulatory risk we expect to enjoy reduced exposure to both debt and equity capital markets over the next several years.
Perhaps the greatest benefit of all these tax benefits is the level of cash flow support we project for our common dividend.
Of course dividend policy is ultimately subject to the approval of our Board of Directors but our expected cash coverage of dividends is greatly improved compared to how we characterize our dividend growth at the time of the AGL Resources merger announcement.
We fundamentally believe that value is a function is risk and return.
Given the magnitude of the dollars and the high degree of certainty inherent in these deductions Southern Company’s value proposition should be greatly improved.
We provided an updated forecast of capital expenditures for 2016 through 2018 in our slide presentation.
This standalone projection does not include AGL Resources.
Anticipating continued success at Southern Power we are excited about the possibilities that exist with the extension of tax benefits for both wind and solar projects.
We have enjoyed a higher than anticipated growth from Southern Power in recent years in fact a year ago our 2015 through 2017 CapEx forecast was approximately $3 billion.
Today based on our recent success we estimate the same period to be about $5 billion of investment for Southern Power.
Going forward we expect to sustain that same level of activity and success in fact our Southern Power forecast for 2016 through 2018 includes CapEx of $5 billion for wind solar and traditional natural gas generation project.
Our CapEx forecast for our traditional operating companies does not include projects specific to the clean power plant.
If our ultimate compliance plants require investment prior to 2019 our current CapEx projection could or would increase.
Our forecasted $1.8 billion investment in environmental compliance over the next three years is largely associated with EPAs effluent guidelines and final coal combustion residuals rule.
Included in the appendix of our slide deck are our projected financing plan credit ratings and a schedule of maturities and a liquidity summary.
Within our financing plan you will note the anticipated debt issuances to fund the AGL Resources merger.
We expect these notes to be issued shortly before the closing of the acquisition and to include a blend of maturities.
Additionally we are planning on a $1.2 billion in equity issuances in the calendar year 2016.
As discussed earlier the extension of bonus depreciation is expected to reduce our exposure to the capital markets and that has resulted in a favorable impact to the remainder of our financing plan.
Considering the incremental cash flow along with our Department of Energy Loan facility for Plant Vogtle construction and an assumption that we will utilize securitized financing for a significant portion of Kemper which is subject to approval by the Mississippi Public Service Commission our exposure to the debt markets for our traditional operating companies over the next three years should be limited.
Southern Power’s debt financing needs will be driven largely by their success in finding suitable projects to fill the placeholders in the CapEx forecast.
An additional benefit of the incremental cash flow from bonus depreciation is the effect on our need to issue new equity.
We currently project no additional equity issuances beyond the $1.2 billion in 2016.
Financial integrity and strong credit ratings have always been priorities for us and that emphasis remains unchanged.
Our financial outlook including our expected credit metrics in 2016 through 2018 has improved and we continue to believe our credit profile is fully supportive of our credit ratings.
Moving now to our earnings per share outlook you will recall that we began issuing new shares in the fourth quarter of 2015 under our internal equity programs largely to fund the AGL transaction and to reinforce our commitment to financial integrity.
The cumulative effect of the shares issued in 2015 and projected for 2016 equates to a $0.06 diluted impact on our standalone 2016 earnings per share.
In addition the estimated impact of bonus depreciation is $0.04.
But for the cumulative impact of these shares and bonus depreciation we would have been in the top half of our 3% to 4% standalone trajectory for 2016.
Considering these drivers our standalone 2016 earnings per share guidance excluding any cost to achieve the AGL Resources merger is $2.76 to $2.88 per share.
Assuming the AGL merger closes later this year our long-term earnings per share growth outlook remains a range of 4% to 5%.
In addition our earnings estimate for the first quarter of 2016 is $0.53 per share.
I’ll now turn the call back over to Tom for his closing remarks.
Thanks Art.
As evidenced by our discussion today 2015 was indeed a remarkable year for Southern Company and we enter 2016 with strong momentum.
The franchise business is performing at a high level solidifying its industry leadership.
We see great progress on major capital projects with the completion of the Kemper County facility on a near-term horizon and Plant Vogtle unit 3 and 4 over 60% complete.
We anticipate the addition of AGL Resources later this year and we see a stable economy in a region poised for continued growth.
Our cash flow and credit profiles are significantly improved and we continue to project 4% to 5% long-term growth in our business.
With the strength of our 26 000 employees and their commitment to provide clean safe reliable and affordable energy to the customers and communities we are privileged to serve.
We believe Southern company is well position to succeed in the month and years ahead.
We are now ready to take your questions.
Operator we’ll now take the first question.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hey Dan.
How are you? Doing good.
Thank you.
First question for you just on the load growth outlook kind of your 2015 maybe a little more tougher than hoped and you looked at the kind of the rally in 2016.
Can you just maybe share a little bit more what you’re seeing particularly on the residential side are you seeing some usage gains or what do you see kind of sprucing that up and then kind of on the industrial front doesn't seem like the world's getting a whole lot better that the idea that that’s going to bounce this year also? So residential we are seeing a continued in migration of customers.
That’s the big deal and we think that our projection of 1% is going to be driven largely by that.
Interestingly through the work I see in the Fed we see similarly here in terms of consumption.
Consumption is kind of flattish and you are seeing that also in the federal reserve data as well.
That’s not all bad.
There is this long-term dividend by cheap oil therefore cheap gasoline prices cheap natural gas prices all is accruing to increase essentially the disposal income of households throughout the Southeast.
Interestingly they are attending to increase their savings rate rather than their consumption rate at that point.
Not all bad because that typically serves as an insulator against future economic shocks.
So that would be kind of my first comment.
Yeah Dan you asked about industrial we commented about three largest segments primary metals and chemicals and paper were down last year.
We expect them to kind of be flattish this year.
There are still elements of strength in the primary metals group.
I think if you look at automotive steel there is still a good demand for that architectural steel is actually going pretty well to boot.
And then in the automotive sector automotive is or transportation is expected to expand.
We’ve got expansions going on it’s some of the customers in our jurisdiction Mercedes being one of those.
There is model expansions as well.
So we expect those numbers to actually do well next year and then the housing related industries primarily in Georgia are expected to continue to grow which is kind of a reflection of the continued growth on the residential and commercial end.
And I commented earlier this morning on squat box about this throughout 2015 as I appeared in that forum culminating in a December meeting I had with Dennis Lockhart there on set.
It was interesting our leading indicators started showing softening our lagging indicators commercial were really good and I have been kind of bearish particularly in the December telecast.
Our guys do a bottom up forecast and we’ve done as business round table discussion here in the Southeast with all the economist of the major entities here and based on a bonds up analysis plus we are seeing from the round table here in the Southeast we do expect these major industrial participants to start adjusting to this new reality and improve their performance into the end of the year.
Okay got it.
And I guess the bonus appreciation cash is pretty huge amount of money coming back to you guys was there any way for some of that cash to offset the equity raise you guys needed at AGL and...
Yeah.
Is that...
so is there a way to mitigate down the numbers you guys gave when you announced the deal so maybe the equity ratio is going to be less the $1.1 billion or whatever the number was originally.
Let me take you through dump math and then we’ll talk about how we attributed it here.
Dump math the number is going to be somewhere between $4 million and maybe over $5 billion.
The $4 billion of cash that we talked about is really through 2020 and doesn’t really assume that Southern Power execute its growth plan which we think they will.
So the number could be higher maybe over a longer time frame.
When we look at - so that’s kind of a source of cash when we look at the uses of cash over time we got into an argument here internally about how to attribute the benefits of that cash.
So let’s go through it and let’s just use the $4 billion number although the number could be higher.
We had always assumed in our former financial plan assumingly we buy by AGL a $3 billion equity issuance over the time frame.
We are going to do $4 billion in cash if you just use a 40% equity ratio 40% times $4 billion so it’s the cash retires a mix of capital requirement the equity portion that would be 1.6.
If the total amount of equity was 3 and you don’t have to issue 1.6 now that leaves you 1.4 to issue.
When you look at the usage of cash we could go through a variety of ways to attribute these shares but since the biggest issue of cash is a near-term use and that is to acquire AGL.
So we decided to allocate the new equity essentially to that project.
And so if you think about it $200 million issued in 2015 plus another $1.2 billion represents the balance of $3 billion less $1.6 billion equals $1.4 million.
So that’s really the simple math.
Look Dan we could have allocated the equity to Southern Power we could have taken pro-rata approach this is just the way we decided to do it to keep the plans in place through 2016.
Okay.
And I guess one last question just that cash reduction in the rate based growth because of bonus depreciation there was enough room in the 4% to 5% earnings growth band that reduced rate base deployment is not going to work you guys down in the growth rate you provided in the hall? Well there is a give and take there right? Essentially the take is yeah sure reduces growth but the other side is there is the benefit of excess cash and therefore less shares as I just outlined with you $1.6 billion less equity raise over the same time frame and remember part of this appropriation still was not just bonus depreciation it was ITC and PTC.
So you will see a sustained Southern Power growth plan through this period and we think we are within that range we’re able to maintain it.
Okay got it.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hello Steve.
Yeah hi hey Tom and Art how are you? Good.
Just wanted to kind of clarify something here so when you announced the AGL deal I think you said it was 4% to 5% growth off of your standalone 2015 base is that correct? That’s right.
And the midpoint of that was 282.
Now you’re saying 4% to 5% growth off of your 2016 guidance which is also still a midpoint of 282.
So if I go out and look at the future like I looked out to 2018 if you just take the 4% to 5% to find that way what was going to be 322/18 would essentially be 308? So could you just be specific on what is the $0.14 difference between what you had said before and what you are saying now? It’s simply the shares associated with the preliminary issuance to support AGL plus the estimated impact of bonus depreciation.
Look PE times EPS is a shorthand for value when you think about the intrinsic value of Southern we got bumped from the passage of this bill an additional $4 billion to $5 billion and perhaps more of cash.
So when you look at the delta the number is $0.04 here that’s how you get to 282 and we grow off of that 4% to 5%.
It is inescapable in fact I would argue that the adjustment from a book standpoint is in earnings per share but the value adjustment is probably in the PE ratio if you do a dcf on Southern we just increased $4 billion to $5 billion just on cash from where we were before.
So take 288 at 5% 276 at 4% and that will be our growth trajectory going forward.
Okay and then - Hey Steve one more thing real quick.
Recall also we talked about of course this is all subject to the board approval all of our credit metrics are improved now we got a lot more cash so all of our credit metrics are better.
And when you look at the dividend thing if you want to do a Gordon model approach evaluation we’re better off than we were.
In other words we said given the earnings profiles and the growth rates and everything else according to the Board approval we’ll pay an additional $0.07 in 2016 and then we would grow that to $0.08 okay.
We’re on the same trajectory assuming the Board approves and our cash flow metrics covering that dividend are somewhere between 20% better to historical performance around 10% better than what we thought it was when we announced the AGL deal.
In other words our ability to pay the dividend because of this cash is enhanced relative to where we are consistent with the value proposition.
Okay.
Should I read that as this just supports better the higher dividend growth that you talked about in the deal or are you suggesting that there might be a chance to grow it even faster than you said? Let’s say at a minimum it supports the growth that we said before.
We’ll always evaluate it year-to-year based on the Board.
But my point to you is we are significantly better from a cash flow coverage or dividend standpoint than we were before this point.
And so we’re able according to board approves we’re able to maintain what we said before and we’re even better are from a credit standpoint.
And that include it’s going from $0.07 to $0.08 in the increase.
Okay.
So I get that just okay.
One other question just on the Georgia review do you view this I mean the commentary about the commissioner seem to be constructive.
So do you view this an opportunity to kind a go back to kind of getting a bit of a pre-prudence decision because I know that was initially the law than it kind you settle that away and so there is an opportunity to do that or is just do you think this is kind of a risk or how should we interpret this review? Steve we think this is bullish.
This is all associated with the settlement of the litigation and recall if you dial the numbers back around BCMA we decided not to pursue these courses because we were in front of litigation and we didn’t want to do all of that.
So the commission sell - and we’ve seen a lot of public discourse about this that the settlement was good for everybody.
The commission is taking the lead in evaluating now is this the right time to pursue prudence.
So we’re following their lead we’ll prepared these exhibits in the next 60 days and we’ll pursue this process as outlined by the commission.
But overall we think this is very constructive.
Okay.
I’m sorry I just want to go back one more time so the difference in the future earnings that we discussed that is really all do longer term to the bonus depreciation not having as much rate base because of that obviously that’s offset by financing but net-net that is the reason for the difference.
That’s right and we’re going to maintain the - you go through your Gordon model stuff.
We’re going to maintain the trajectory of the dividend so payout ratio is up.
The cash flow coverage to dividend is significantly higher.
And as our growth rate goes from 4% to 5% payout ratio comes down pretty quickly in the years ahead.
So what we’re doing is maintaining with better credit posture what we said before.
Okay thank you.
Yes sir.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Crowdell from Jefferies.
Good afternoon guys.
Hey how are you? Never been better.
How about yourself? Awesome.
Just two real soft ball questions I guess.
One is on Kemper you had some like I don’t know you called it hotspot so you had a I guess two other refractory.
I mean is there a period where you get to when you’re comfortable with now the gasifier and I don’t say out of the woods but maybe the high cost or whatever trying to get this online is passed you.
Yeah and let me very clear.
What we’re doing with the refractory is not high-tech.
it really involved finding some hotspots looking at that making and not only fixing what was there but making an improvement to both gasifiers.
So we’re taking the opportunity to once we get this thing up and running it will run in a safe reliable manner for years to come.
So we took the opportunity to make improvements.
These are not high-tech nor they reasonably expensive.
However they are time intensive.
Taking these steps right now we think will benefit us long-term unfortunately they do add about two months to schedule.
So that’s what we’ve done.
So the startup process otherwise as we were so excited I guess the last time we spoke the fluidization test and the more technical test have gone beautifully.
So we’re very kind of energized by the steady rate of progress in start-up.
Didn’t like the delay but we think that will service right in the long run.
And just lastly if I move to Southern Power it seems like I don’t want to say perfect storm but you have the maybe yield closer to other companies that were investing in a lot of their projects at Southern Power was also investing in I mean is there a lot more potential you guys have a lot of cash great cost of capital that Southern Power really just takes tremendous advantage of this downturn in the market and sees a lot more projects open to them? We’re very excited about the opportunity for Southern Power in the next few years.
We’ve demonstrated our ability to execute like champions we’ve developed terrific relationships with the people in the field and I think the first comment I want to make is recall this $2 billion outperformance in capital deployment from 2015 through 2017 we think it’s the same from 2016 into 2018.
Now I think I feel very confident we’re going to be able to execute there there are some wild cards out there it will be fun to see when gas starts reemerging okay.
And so that could even accelerate beyond what we’re showing right now but right now I think we’ve got a good plan.
We continue to execute in a very discipline way and we’ll see where it goes.
I have very kind of positive views about our ability to execute for Southern Power in the years ahead.
And one other things we just moved Buzz Miller over there he is a very talented guy and I think we’ll do great.
Great thanks for taking my question guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Please go ahead.
Hello Paul.
Tom how are you? Awesome how are you? Well thank you.
Just want to make sure I understand you’ve got in your guidance the shares to fund the acquisition but no revenues from the acquisition? That’s way basically they are excluded from kind of ongoing EPS exactly right.
So when you assume the deal closes or you just assume it doesn’t close this year? Well now remember the earnings profile of AGL is such that its frontend loaded.
The other earnings are in the first half of the year.
They don’t really earn very much in the second half of the year.
And so what I’ve been telling everybody is you shouldn’t expect any contribution in 2016 out of AGL.
And on a standalone basis as we suggested in the script if you remove these kind of one-off items we were in the high end of the 3% to 4% range.
Now when you bring AGL on beginning in 2017 and beyond we change our growth rate to 4% to 5%.
We feel very comfortable about that.
And that includes AGL.
Yes and that includes everything.
2016 doesn’t include anything for AGL.
So remember AGL plus fewer shares plus the growth rate of Southern Power gets us back to the 4% to 5% that we told you we would do before.
And we think even with the higher payout ratio as the book EPS would suggest the cash flow coverages allow us to pay that with even greater safety.
We’re in a better position on the dividend than we were before when we announced AGL.
So bonus.
Yeah.
And then just back to your comments on Southern Power should we look for you to kind of what’s the right scale in your tax appetite to do more renewables? So I’ll let Art kind of fill in on that we find ourselves because of this excess cash and tax benefits in a carry forward position.
We’ve adjusted we are adjusting our IRR requirements we only have this very disciplined process we go through particularly for the solar deals and I’ll let Art go through that unchanged probably is our wind deal.
I think you just wrapped it up it’s just you said Paul we’re going to not be able to monetize some of the investment tax credits quite as quickly as we had expected for solar however it’s a little bit different for wind because production tax credits are spread over a 10 year period.
So we’ll still look at incremental solar we’ll look at incremental wind and we’ll still apply very disciplined processes Tom talked about to our approach to every project.
And we talked to you before in October about we had a great backlog already in 2016 winning all those projects fit underneath our curves even as they are adjusted.
And then Tom I kind of heard in the background this morning on TV.
But you didn’t my undivided attention had a couple of things going on.
Come on Paul.
And I’ve been looking forward to a replay on it.
Can you just kind of you view your comments you had about kind of a new age because of e-commerce or electronic? Yeah.
It’s fascinating stuff.
We really do have a great team of economist here and we are just seeing this now in a broader sense.
Here is the issue we had talked historically about leading and lagging indicators and in fact I would argue our stuff is as good as anybody in predicting the direction of the market and what we had been seeing historically is that industrial sales are the leading indicator even better than that is economic development.
But let’s just stay with industrial sales.
They create jobs they grow personal incomes that are above normal for the Southeast as we create jobs people move in they get those jobs they get the higher income they start consuming more that’s residential.
And then as more people move in the commercial sector comes in they do dry cleaners and grocery stores and hospitals and schools.
Now there is an emerging segment in the commercial class.
So the commercial class is the lagging indicator and it matured really well during 2015 and so you say is that a bearish signal.
There is an emerging important segment in commercial sales that really relate to the electrification of the economy.
As the whole economy becomes more digital in its composition we are seeing especially in the Southeast the advent of data farms - server farms of IT professional and these jobs are two to three times higher than typically what would you see in a normal commercial job like a restaurant or a school.
These are really high paying job and they don’t have the kind of correlation to industrial activity that you see typically from commercial to industrial.
And just as a supporting statistic Georgia was just named the seventh fastest growing state in the United States for technology employment.
This is a sustainable growth rate and doesn’t have that correlation.
So even if industrial starts to take off and all that again these guys are going to sustain and we are very excited about that the buying power the economic quality of this segment is really good.
And then your 1% forecast for industrial sales growth that’s just based on economic development activity you expect to start taking move? Yeah.
Plus I think even the people that had been damaged a bit by the downturn and the malaise in international economies and cheap oil and the strong dollar and all that even there we are seeing these people adjust to this new market reality.
Let me give you a fun statistic there nationally we are seeing United States exporting down around 7% in the Southeast it was down only 2% and that really picked up at the end of the year.
The Savanna Port had a record year in terms of its activity.
So I think what we are seeing is some of these industries that had been hurt pretty bad and maybe they are coming off a low base chemicals primary metals et cetera now adjusting to this new reality.
Thank you very much.
Yes sir thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Hey Greg.
I don't think that it's possible to patent the dividend discount model; I think that was already done by someone else.
But thanks.
So a little bit more on the question of the visibility on the solar and wind stuff.
I understand you said you are going to - because you theoretically you are going to be able to monetize ITCs now over longer time frame your IRI are higher every other utility holding company is in the same boat.
So your marginal competitor for an incremental solar project is just Conad [ph] or Dominion or Duke then you are all on the same boat and that doesn’t really change the competitive landscape.
But if your marginal competitor is someone who is at a similar credit rating and is still has tax appetite.
Doesn’t that put you at a theoretical disadvantage going forward in order to achieve your targets? Yeah sure.
As you positive at your question now but and what we’ve already seeing for the projects that we’ve already circled for 2016 and I remember in October I gave you great confidence about our ability to execute 2016 in a similar manner.
I think we’re going to be able to do that.
We already know that those projects meet our hurdle rates even with the adjustments.
And don’t forget about the importance of relationships our ability to close the fact that we’ve worked in joined development if you will for people to get power cells agreement better suitable to our risk return profiles.
And so I think all of this will work to our benefit.
We don’t see really any significant slowdown.
I just wanted to let you know that we were looking at the time value of the cash but it doesn’t make a substantial difference to be honest with you.
I feel very bullish about our ability to execute the growth program.
Okay great.
And I know that Steve asked this question in a million different ways and I come up with a slightly less lower number in 2018 but semantics.
But is it solely the impact of bonus deprecation all things equal or are we also sort of seeing the compounding effect of slightly lower than expected sales growth in terms of earned returns on across the business as well.
It’s all bonus.
It's all bonus.
Yeah lowers your growth rate.
Improving your growth rate is going to be less shares improving your growth rate is going to be the growth plan at Southern Power and we’re going to keep rolling.
Hey remember we talked about $4 billion I mean I know we’re conservative on all these things but Southern Power execute these growth program it’s going to be more than $4 billion it could be in fact a little higher than $5 billion.
Got it.
Last question Georgia things look like they’re going in a positive direction in terms of them reviewing the settlement them doing prudence.
You also have a rate plan that you’ll either again the counting order for again this year or go through a normal rate case process as you usually do when you roll these things.
Is that work load sort of theoretically like achievable by the Georgia commission this is the lot of stuff for them to get done this year or should we expect some of the stuff to sort of roll into 2017 just by the sure magnitude of what they’re trying to accomplish with three major approvals pending here the settlement the prudence review and the rate case.
Yeah man I mean add to that.
I think we’re doing integrated resource plan we have DCM 14 filed on February to be done and whatever it is July and August.
And then we have 15 in the middle of the year.
So if you think about it we've got a lot of activity.
And I know when they had suggesting to go through this process the staff rates and issues about work load.
Look we all get that we have a history since really 1995 of working very constructively with the staff and the commission.
And we’ll find a way to balance the work load and achieve good results for everybody.
So it’s a great point let’s let the commission to figure that out and we’ll work with them to get good results.
Okay thank you guys.
Bye-bye.
Yes sir thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Weinstein with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hey it’s Julien here? Hey Julien.
Yeah there you go.
Just for the record I just want to say we’re both on the call.
I will let Julien do the talking.
You do all the work he does the talking right? Well a quick question if you will.
Just to elaborate on the last series of questions around the growth rate.
Can you be specific around the ITC benefits recognized in 2016 2017 and 2018 as well sort of what do we see in this year and what are you thinking going forward.
Dominion's laid it out the other day they’re seeing obviously with the lower CapEx a rolling off.
So what are we expecting - what are we baking in there is there an offset to the bonus depreciation potentially with more solar ITCs.
Well the problem is the bonus depreciation pushes out stands in front of the monetization of the ITCs.
So the more solar you do the more bonus you book kind of pushes out the equation of it.
But if you look at 2016 and 2017 look we’ll be back into utilizing tax credits I believe sometime in 2018.
Okay.
And how much I’m just kind of curious how much is baked into the 2018 number and then just be very clear about it or are you… So if I had to read I mean I am looking at some [indiscernible] I mean it looks like yeah you’re in there you’re kind of done in 2017 you’re into consuming it in 2018 and you’re done by 2020 2021 it gathers itself up pretty quickly it consumes it pretty quickly.
We can give you breakdown year-by-year I guess later but… And is there any incentive to delaying projects just to kind of think about it allowed if you’re not getting the tax benefits now why not push them off if you can renegotiate the deals get a little bit better little better uplift? You’re talking about solar deals? Yeah there is talk out there in the industry I suppose you guys could potentially be a leading indicator on it? No you know what I mean it’s an interesting question here is something that we have talked about but so far we haven’t seen much of it.
Remember when we thought there was going to be a cliff from 2016 to 2017 and we all said boy there’s a freight train running to get deals done in 2016 and we kind of said well you know what if we get this expansion which we did with all the activity show up in 2016 or would it start to spill over into 2017.
We’re seeing some of that okay but we still feel that for the projects that were circled by us back in 2015 for 2016 that they’re still going to happen pretty much in 2016.
There could be a minor spillage if you will into 2017 but here’s what I think you’re going to find more likely and that is more projects now come to light.
When you think about people starting to anticipate proactive responses to the clean power plant other states’ activities with respect to renewable portfolio standards look I think there is a tremendous appetite to grow both solar and wind in the years ahead.
So my sense is with the added ITC and PTC extensions the market is going to well exceed I’m just going to guess what we all think is out there.
And the price for those projects will reflect the fact that the general participants in the United States are going to have bonus depreciation sitting on top of them.
In other words I think this will all resolve itself and we will see additional growth that would be my guess.
Got it.
Can I just go back real quickly clarify regarding some questions here when we’re talking about the ITCs I was specifically inquiring around the earnings impact not necessarily the cash.
Is there any solar ITC earnings impact reflected in the 2016 guidance in 2017 or are you also delaying this earnings recognition? No for both purposes you will still recognize the benefit of ITC.
The recognition for cash that will be delayed until you got room to take them.
So the cash benefit gets delayed a bit and you’re in the kind of I don’t know if I did an average to that it’s kind of an average I don’t know 2.5 with a four year total kind of thing.
That’s kind of the time value magnitude you’re talking about.
But just to be clear how much like EPS are we talking about in 2016 guidance? In total for Southern Power? Yeah or for the ITC just I’m thinking about like that being something of quasi one-time that you want to think about… I am going to say it’s about $150 million.
Of ITC benefit in 2016? Yeah right.
All right great.
And 2017 and 2018 I suppose it’s proportionally lower based on the CapEx you’re projecting that probably a fair statement.
It depends on the mix remember the mix of wind and solar.
So we’ve just given you a number we’ve not defined it anyway between what’s solar what’s wind and what’s gas.
Got it all right great thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hey Stephen how are you? Great how are you doing? Awesome.
Awesome.
Most of my questions have been addressed so just wanted to touch on new nuclear and checking on the Sanmen project in China what’s your sense in terms of the progress at Sanmen? That’s good there were the - I guess there are big hold ups related to the reactor cooling pump resolved those technical issues those have been resolved.
I think they’re moving forward.
I forget which ones is which but one's going to go in service this year and I think Sanmen this year and early next year will be Hian [ph] they are going well.
With respect to new nuclear certainly as the clean power plant starts to mature and states responses.
We’ve said it before there is really a big three maybe a big four in responding to that.
I think new nuclear makes a lot of sense big scale base load no carbon emissions.
Clearly renewables will be a big player will be for us have been for us.
And then when you see kind of intermittent resources like wind and solar come to play you’re going to need two types of gas come in.
One piece of gas which will be the ability for generation to follow the intermittency will be CTs.
So we think you’ll start to see CTs in a big way.
And then it looks tough for coal certainly new coal.
So if you want to look at base load looking gas that looks like CCs.
So those are going to be the trends that I think you’ll see going forward.
Right now Georgia has filed its integrated resource plan but that really is not particular responsive to the clean power plant it is way too far early to get a kind of cogent response by the state.
So you should view the IRP in Georgia as being pre-cleaned power plant in its composition.
Understood.
So that could add as you think about the clean power plant that can add addition opportunities but probably a bit later on just given that the time frame of that regulation.
Yeah and that's right but you’re going to get this conundrum of whenever you decide whenever its accepted by EPA and everything else if gas is going to be a big deal and if you got four years to start building combined cycles and you got to have a response in place by 2022 for example.
You got to start right away.
And that’s why I guess Art made the comment that you’re going to start seeing potential changes in the CapEx budgets.
If CC starts to show up in the backend of this three year budget we’ve lead out for you.
Yeah okay thank you.
Just had one last question just on Toshiba and Westinghouse.
We’re very pleased obviously with the settlement and improvement of the risk position.
There is a little bit of press reports about the position of Toshiba and potentially looking at their investment in Westinghouse but that looks more like a financial test rather than anything operational.
I assume it’s the case that the people that you want in terms of the team involve from Westinghouse et cetera.
There if Toshiba were to take a right off of Westinghouse that’s not necessarily really it translates into anything different in terms of team composition or commitments to the business or anything of that sort.
No not at all Steve.
In fact we would argue look we’re in such a better spot than we were.
Thing about the relative positions of the partners we have a single point of contact now they’re not having to fight with each other.
In fact we’re already seeing improvements on the site we’re going to 24 hour coverage which we didn’t have before.
We’re seeing an acceleration in the subcontractors for things like panels new port news organ iron works.
A much more focused workforce on site.
Now this thing has been terrific.
And with respect to any and I’ll let Art to comment on this.
But with respect to any credit issues at Toshiba with respect to their ability to undertake their financial obligations under the contract.
They provided us LCs to meet their obligation.
When they were downgraded below investment grade.
In terms of the contract required them to commit letters of credit which we received about a month ago.
And they’re written by strong banks we’re completely happy with.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you very much.
You bet thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Shar Pourezza with Guggenheim Partners.
Please go ahead Hey Shar.
Hey Art and Tom how are you? Super.
So just looking at slide 10 the dip in CapEx that you’re showing for Southern Power I am still trying to just figure out is this the pull forward of demand under the old tax regime or is that sort of Southern Power shifting out their CapEx profile given the higher hurdle rates or the less tax appetite? Are you talking in 2017 Shar? Yeah right in 2017 exactly.
Yeah I think it’s a bit of the lack of supply at this point is that’s going to have to adjust to the new market reality that you now have extended the ITCs beyond down to 2021 that you don’t have as many projects that were in the mill so to speak.
Yeah and you know what I mean that I think Art is right on the money there I wouldn’t be surprised that the market for that number grow and I feel good about our ability to execute within that growing market.
Look at what we’ve done and that’s why we want to make a point in the script about kind of the last three year forecast we gave you was $3 billion and we did $5 billion for heaven sake.
Right now we are saying it’s going to be $5 billion for the next three year and we are going to do $2.4 billion in 2016.
So I would say as while there is only $2.6 billion in the last three years.
I wouldn’t be surprised that number growth.
When you see the availability of these tax credits and you think about people getting ready for the clean power plant the market is going to grow.
That’s what we are showing right now that’s where we’re going to stick within our plan.
But I think there is room to grow.
If you look at the RPS standards expansions that will certainly drive some of the growth naturally anywhere.
Absolutely.
And then just sticking with the growth large scale acquisitions on the renewable side I have to imagine there is willing sellers and maybe you could just touch on if you can the recent media reports that Southern Power was potentially looking at Sun Edison’s portfolio? I haven’t seen that and I’m not going to comment on it.
We are active we have terrific relationship have had terrific relationships with major developer.
First Solar has been one Recurrence another and so we work lock step with those guys and that’s why we are so confident about kind of our forward supply.
Certainly there are projects that are in existence and if we are a logical buyer we will participate really hard.
I’ll give you examples where we’ve done that.
In Georgia after the solicitation process that went through a lot of developers when we did deals there we became a very attractive participant because we could execute with a great deal of financial resources and just work it really well that’s going to be an existence.
But with respect to any particular name we would never comment on that.
There is going to be stuff available though.
Got it.
Thanks so much.
You bet thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Agha from SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Ali how are you? Good Tom good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
Just to clarify a couple of points you had made earlier just to make sure I’m getting them right.
So first off on bonus depreciation is it fair to assume that the $0.04 hit if you assume 2016 is that a good annual number to think about for 2017 2018 as well? No it will go up as we move out in time Ali.
The facts are that we were actually a cash tax payer in 2015 and we did before the extension of bonus we’ll probably have been more in 2016.
So it’s the smaller effect in 2016 but it will be grow over the time.
But just remember consistent with the guidance we’ve given you we are going to overcome and a continuing burden by less shares growth plan addition of AGL.
Right.
Yeah I get that.
And then secondly so given this ITC and PTC extension and Tom you alluded to the fact that previously you were looking at a bit of a cliff in 2017.
So off that 2015 earnings base for Southern power how should we be looking at the next three years? Relatively flat or growing given that these have extended how should we think about that change now from your perspective? These guys hate me talking about this but [indiscernible] we have continued to beat Southern Power’s goals every year.
When I think about I want to go back to 2014 we estimated around 150 or so and we got 170 or so.
When we estimated 2015 we estimated 180 and we are going to get to 215.
Now here is what’s interesting I’m going to give you a number in 2016 it’s going to knock your socks off I think.
But remember we added to the CapEx so our CapEx went from I forget what we estimated 1-2 to 2-4 round numbers in 2015 and then we said we are going to execute similarly in 2016.
So imagine the CapEx that we’ve been expanding on projects and while we jumped up to 215 the effect of this acceleration of CapEx at the end of 2015 we were spending CapEx.
We didn’t have projects and service.
Once we go into services in 2016 you’re going to see a great big jump and that jump could be as high as high $200 million to $300 million in net income.
So it’s going to be a big bump.
Now consistent with the CapEx that we’re showing you here that number is not sustained and in fact the less CapEx and the idea of the cliff and all that would show that our net income will come down in Southern Power to some level in 2017 I’m not prepared to talk about what that level is but I want you to know don’t expect 300 to stay the same every year thereafter.
I will just say 2016 we expect a great year in net income contribution from Southern Power.
Yeah absolutely.
And just remember in 2017 and 2018 going forward AGL pops in and we estimate it way back when I think about $0.10 a year on the average that’s really picks up for Southern in 2017 2018 and beyond.
And also can you remind us Arthur again of the 2015 O&amp;M number expense that you posted what kind of growth rate should we be looking at annually going forward? Okay Ali.
Going forward we’re going to stick with our 3% to 3.5% number but understand that there is no such thing as a normal year in non-fuel O&amp;M.
Looking back to 2014 I mean it’s for the operating companies alone year-over-year it’s only up 1.2%.
If you look at total Southern it was up 2.3.
So lots of things influenced those numbers but as a planning guide I think 3% to 3.5% is a good number.
And you guys know for years really I mean going back when I was in the CFO rank we've developed this dynamic budgeting process.
Actually we approve a lower level of budget and then above that we developed some flexibilities that essentially creates optionality in our spending plan to match for different economic conditions and different weather such that that’s why we always hit our numbers.
We're able to adjust spending when we have warm weather during the summer.
We’re able to do more outages and more work.
And what underpins all that the result is we have the best reliability for the wires and our generating system in the industry.
So it works exceedingly well but Art is right I mean I guess you should use a 3.5% looking number but just be cautious we'll match that with revenue overtime.
Yeah and there is other exogenous factor that it will bring Kemper online that will certainly make a difference in non-fuel O&amp;M and as we bring other environmental piece of equipment on that will impact O&amp;M as well.
So I’m really talking about base kind of stuff.
Yeah understood.
Last question Tom now with all these moving parts and these extensions and bonus et cetera if you look at your company on a standalone basis and pre the AGL acquisition announcement and the financing that goes with that obviously if none of that had happened what kind of growth rate were you looking at for Southern sort of on a standalone basis? Okay.
Absent AGL absent bonus and all that - Well we want to go obviously - sorry go ahead.
Okay.
I'll answer.
Absent AGL absent bonus and all the new tax law we just got it would have been 3% to 4%.
And we would have been back to the litany of me kind of posing to you all the rhetorical question that we in fact face that is we would become way excess cash flow that we talked about before and we said there is kind of three things that you can do with it.
One is buyback your own stock.
One is buy somebody else’s stock and in the middle buy assets.
And what we have been seeing what you've seen us do in that strategy with the buy up of bunch of assets particularly at Southern Power.
We saw an opportunity with AGL not only to buy somebody else’s stock at a premium that is enormously accretive especially given where they were trading relative to their peers so our premium wasn’t nearly as high as what you see in the media and especially relative to other deals and it accretes to our growth rate.
And so this thing has been a homerun ever since we’ve announced and I think our stock has performed accordingly.
But it would have been 3% to 4% but we would have been dealing with what we do with the excess cash.
Understood.
Thank you.
Yes sir.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey Michael.
Hey guys.
Hey Tom.
Hate to be the one to do this but might involve been asked and answered I think I hand it off to the next guy.
Oh! No you’re a hero.
Thanks.
Appreciate the chat.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Hello Paul.
Hey how are you doing? Good.
Hope you're well? I am managing.
I just wanted to ask you a couple of quick ones.
What’s the GDP forecast for 2016? Little over 2%.
Little over 2%? Yeah.
Okay.
Now when I look back at what you guys had or this time last year you guys had about 3 and you expected 1.3%.
Yeah.
So when we’re looking at this are we guys changed your GDP growth rate and also by the way I hate to do this but is the leap year in this as well that's...
You know that does matter.
I know.
Yeah Paul.
This is Art.
I think certainly GDP is a factor that we put into our forecast and it does have an influence.
But one other things and Tom has already kind of mentioned it it is our bottom-up approach as we talk to all of our large industrial customers and we get a lot of information from them about what their plans are what their expansions what new models they might be bringing online whatever and we factor that in as well.
So it’s not just a top bound GDP driven number.
So it’s not going to always match up.
And let me just give you a story about that.
So when we went from 2014 to 2015 we had gas prices on the average to be kind of in the 4s to now in the 2 okay.
So there were some people on the margin with co-generation facilities.
So if prices in gas went down they turned on their co-gens and stop buying from us.
That also impacted industrial sales in a big way.
You’re not going to see that thing delta this year because you’re at a super low gas price I don't know how much further lower they can go.
But we’re not going to see that delta.
And so what's remaining this is an industrial growth rate that we think is achievable.
Okay.
It is absolutely a bottoms-up boots on the ground kind of analysis.
We do check it with our kind of big megatrend looking stat.
But we’re pretty confident with what we’ve got.
Okay.
And then with respect to Julian’s question on the solar ITC I wasn’t really completely clear about what the 2017 impact was.
It sounded like it was about a 150 million that you guys saw on 2016 for the ITCs and then I just apologize because I just didn't really catch what you guys expected to have happened with that in 2017.
Yeah it really depends on whether we’re going to do solar deal wind deals or natural gas.
So it’s hard to say what it’s going to be then because it depends on what we commit to do and what we spent CapEx on what clears into service.
Okay.
But directionally do you think it might go down is that what… Oh! Sure.
Oh! Yeah.
Absolutely.
Okay.
And what you’re going to do probably is I don’t know - I’ll say on to the current plan that we forecasted.
Who knows what's going to show up in the market and we'll adjust accordingly as we see it show up.
But one of the things you can pivot to do is do more wins for example that would make it go down.
Right.
And that would suggest the… but there could be a little bit of drag is that what you’re thinking in terms of at least in the near-term year-over-year? No listen.
We feel comfortable about hitting our numbers that we’re showing you guys.
Look we’re giving you our best guess and we're giving you a conservative case.
My sense is there’s going to be a bigger market and certainly I will challenge Southern Power to participate fully in that bigger market.
And what they’re committing to right now.
Remember we went through the discussion earlier on the call about going from a big CapEx number in 2016 to a lower CapEx number in 2017.
That really just a reflection of where we are we’ll push them to do more.
Okay.
And then just with Kemper and the negotiations on the CO2 contracts how is that going and how should we think about the impact of low oil prices and the economics of Kemper on an operational basis given what we’ve seen with the big dramatic drop in oil gas? Interestingly I asked that question yesterday; in terms of appetite for CO2 people still have an appetite for CO2.
For the EOR business there’s a tremendous demand and in fact we’ve been approaching for get Kemper.
We've been approached about getting in the business of producing CO2 from other places.
You may remember way back when we did one of our early pilots on carbon capture and sequestration at a plant Barry [ph] and we were sequestering the CO2 in the Citronelle [ph] fields there.
We think there is tremendous demand for CO2 in the EOR business even at these prices.
And I was a little surprised with that.
In terms of the relative cost of energy we kind a cover that and other calls.
And I just remember by baselines here so I'm going to just quote that I quoted before that had a $100 of barrel the value of CO2 plus the host of other assumptions got us to about a buck in a quarter per million BTU equivalent at $50 a barrel it was somewhere around to 2 to 2.25 equivalent.
And so we'll see what happened now.
Is that linear or I mean just as you know we've had a drop from there that just sort of that's what --.
Well of course.
We get that but listen you know what and then I get the question all the time about how can you justify building nuclear when gas prices are low.
One of the things we do know is that we don't know what's going to happen with gas prices.
And they tend to be much more volatile than other fuel stocks.
One of the advantages of Kemper relative to even other natural gas plant is that we've essentially fixed out our cost of supply.
We have mime [ph] lignite we know what that cost so that's not going to vary.
And so we're going to be able to produce assuming a reliability profile at a very constant level and we recall also what has changed overtime to look at the performance of Kemper in the past year just purely by running natural gas through the combined cycle unit.
We've supplied one-third of the energy consumed by the Mississippi power customers out of the Kemper site.
So we're going to be able to provide reliability assurances and the regulatory process everything is going to be very attractive.
Okay.
And then just there is this - there have been some reports about the large coal inventory in light of the low gas prices and what have you.
And I was just wondering if there is any issue or any comments that you guys have in terms of the level of coal inventory and if anything has to change contractually or anything else you might see in terms of coal gas dynamics in the southeast because of the inventories you're seeing.
Paul thanks for that and I want to monitor that with our [inaudible] on that.
We prepare the most [inaudible] data in preparation with this when I think I just be --.
I told when you ask this I suppose.
But in fact inventory is up a little bit.
But not that and we're going to be able to manage it down.
Here is kind of the fun stuff.
We have been able to manage down the contracts overtime.
And so from a supply standpoint we've really shifted of course to PRB away from Central Apps Illinois has also increased Alabama remains a certain set of supply.
So we've been able to shift our supply.
But the other thing that we've been able to do is work on transportation.
We've been able to work constructively with the railroads and here is my [inaudible] data.
When we talk about train sets and 2014 at our peak we had 95 train sets moving coal around the United States.
In 2015 that number has gone down to 75 and for 2016 we have 45 active.
So we've been able to take down the number of assets that are moving coal around the United States.
That will serve to balance out our fuel loads in an economic manner for the benefit of our customers throughout this year and then going forward.
Okay great.
I really appreciate it.
Thanks so much.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead Hey Steve.
Hey guys.
Hey Tom.
Just a question on thinking about kind of Vogtle with the bonus depreciation.
Does this is the $4 billion or $5 billion of cash include getting bonus kind of on Vogtle at least one units comes in.
Okay just one of them or both of them.
Both.
Okay.
And does the 4% to 5% growth rate includes like the rate base impact of Vogtle from bonus depreciation too so it's kind of everything together.
I would imagine that it does.
I can imagine need to be an impacted.
Okay.
So you're including the full impact of bonus depreciation cash and rate base for Vogtle.
That's correct.
Okay.
And we mentioned that in our script actually.
It was going to pick up both Kemper and Vogtle.
So within those timeframes expert.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yes sir.
Our next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan [ph] with Wisdom [ph].
Please go ahead.
Hello Ashar [ph].
Hey Tom how are you doing? Tom I'm a little bit lot of numbers but I don't know if you can kind of like simplify or heard something wrong and this I'm trying to understand the merger.
So you said if I heard in the commentary that the merger is going to add $0.10 in 2017 and 2018 if I heard it correctly.
Round numbers.
That's right.
Through the period it's $0.10 accretive per year and then numbers are 9 and 10 and 11 but whatever.
Okay.
But then I also heard that you said that you are using 1.4 billion of equity from the bonus depreciation windfall in terms of investing that into this new investment which is AGL.
So we don't have to utilize it.
And to me 1.4 billion of equity is equivalent to on current today's stock price is equivalent to about $0.10 a share.
And then you are saying that's also hitting us by $0.06 in 2016.
So to me that implies that the transaction is dilutive by $0.05.
So what am I missing the numbers don't add up the $0.06 plus $10.0 on equity avoidance plus 10 I'm just not getting it.
I would go back to the math.
I would try to do before the kind of caveman [ph] up we were always when you think about and it really get into an argument of attribution of shares okay.
And we argued about whether to put it all on Southern Power and say that we are financing all of AGL with cash coming from bonus and all this other stuff or whether to do a mix or whether just to say look the nearest term use of cash is AGL and so therefore keeping the 1.4 billion remaining which we did 200 million in 2015 1.2 is our plan in 2016 we have just chosen to associate that with AGL.
We could have done a variety of things.
When you consider the total amount of CapEx including the acquisition amount less the benefit of cash we could have attributed that on a pro rata basis.
The economic impact of AGL remains the same.
Once we get a full year of earnings.
Remember and maybe this will be helpful just to recall when we did the announcement.
Their EPS growth rate on a standalone basis was between 6% and 9% and their base case assumed essentially 7.5% and we thought there were opportunities to improve that we did when you add AGL in the Southern and increases our overall growth 1% from 3 to 4 to 4 to 5 that represents about $0.10 a year.
We are going to sustain that into the future.
How you want to count the shares is almost a term of art.
But the truth is the fact that we're going to get at least 4 billion potentially over 5 allows us to offset a significant amount of shares that otherwise we would have issued.
The firm is better off 4 billion to 5 billion in total.
Okay.
I'll go back and do.
But I don't know the math didn't work out.
Second question Tom on the more macro thing.
I guess you were not the only one the companies that reported earlier all three of them showed a huge drop in industrial sales in the fourth quarter.
Yeah.
Is this - and I think so what you mentioned in your macro piece and I guess mentioned by Dudley [ph] last night is that the strong dollar is hurting the industrial manufacturing side.
How long do you think that this remains there is this just last quarter or are we going to see weak numbers year-over-year comparisons for the first half of the year or could you guys give us from your macro perspective? Yeah man and in fact if you want to go back and look at a clip look at the clip that CNBC when I was on Squakbox with Dennis Lockhart in December.
But let me give you just kind of the dumb overview again.
When you look at quarter-by-quarter performance we track very closely the top 10 I used to call sic codes I understand they're called something else now but standard industrial classification segments that represents 80 85% of our sales in the industrial sector.
The 2014 all ten of those segments they showed year-over-year growth so it's a terrific forward-looking stories.
And then we projected I guess a 1.3% increase in industrial sales.
Then all of a sudden with worldwide economy of China all that other stuff that we’re talking about dollar exporting going down we started seeing those segments start to show year-over-year weakness.
In the first quarter two of them turned negative.
In the second quarter I want to say three of them turned negative.
In the third quarter six of them turned negative.
In the fourth quarter it turns out seven of them turned negative.
And then even now my momentum analysis would have showed that even if you were still positive this is the momentum comment.
You were less positive.
Everything started showing into the slowing down in the industrial sector.
Now what Art said it’s true and here’s what’s interesting when these guys we were preparing for this call first started coming up with the sales forecast and then we’re showing a renewed growth in industrial we had a lot of give and take and pushback and why do you really believe that.
Go through a variety of factors.
I think this notion that the industrial classes adjusting to the high dollar and low commodity prices.
In this new market reality is one factor.
Second factor remember I mentioned before that with gas prices falling we saw a bunch of cogen turned on that tended to depress industrial sales that delta won’t show in 2016 anymore.
So as people adjusted the new reality like for example primary metal we saw that go way down we think now some of primary metal is going to grow with the - associated with automobile with transportation.
We’re going to see that - we have reasonably from our bottoms-up analysis.
And I’ll tell you another thing Mike Jackson of Auto Nation commented on this in some of his commentary.
Other foreign operations are being relocated and I’d say story for that already has been in Alabama with Mercedes Benz.
That’s correct.
So some of our bottoms-up stories are giving us the reason to believe that in the Southeast now this is probably not true across the United States in the Southeast we’re going to see a renewal of industrial sales off of 2016.
So look forward to occur in transportation look forward to occur in housing and maybe some of the other sectors.
But would you agree that might show up more in the second half of the year rather than the first half? Yes that would be my guess also.
Yeah that was my question.
Thank you so much.
You bet.
Thank you.
Operator any more questions? Our next question comes from the line of Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Hey Mark.
Hey guys how are you today? Great.
A lot of great commentary in detail today on the call so thanks a lot for that.
I just wanted to clarify one thing it’s been a long one.
Just wanted to clarify one thing about the proceedings that were requested by the PSC? Am I correct in understanding that if there’s no kind of dispute with the staff findings over the next six months there won’t be a public disclosure of those discussions or…? No.
Okay.
I mean let me just clarify that and let me give the timeframes right too.
We have 60 days in which we make filings with the commission with the staff.
Then a six months class sorry okay.
After we make the filing there is a 30 day class that will allow interested parties to file their own information.
Then we have an evaluation of all this information with the staff and we try and reach a settlement as to its conclusion okay.
And once we’ve reached that conclusion if we reach a settlement there will be a period of time in which interested parties can finally evaluated and it would be ultimately adjudicated in a normal course as we do with almost any rate case or any other proceeding that we have.
So there will be ultimately a hearing resulting after assuming we have a settlement agreement.
Rest assure to that.
Okay.
I just wanted to clarify that otherwise thanks for everything today.
It was great.
Thank you.
Take care.
Our next question comes from the line of Adula Bernie [ph] with CDP.
Please go ahead.
Hey Adula.
Hey good afternoon Tom.
How are you? Great and how are you? I am doing okay.
Couple of things in terms of Southern Power it seems like obviously with the higher CapEx and anything like that it's very now production tax credit investment tax credit driven.
How much of the stuff stands alone by itself.
And I'm just wondering like I mean how much is this just all tax derivative as appose to underlying economics about that Federal tax policies.
Now that's an interesting question.
I mean look I've been on record a lot.
And how even the EIA would say that tax preference items at quarters renewable are way in excess of anything associated with coal oil and gas and even compared to nuclear was estimated to be 35 times was available there.
What's fascinating is I think these are mature industries.
And certainly with the way the clean power plant is structured even without tax benefits.
There would be a great demand to do wind and solar just because of their carbon profile.
Recall also that I think the United States in general is going to be really well-served if we pursue the full portfolio that I'm always fond of saying we're the only one really doing all of it new nuclear 21st century coal and natural gas renewable energy efficiency.
Look the dual behind your question is a notion that these things has in my opinion excess economic returns relative to a tax policy that didn't favor one technology or another.
But I think given where EPA is going especially with the price of carbon that's implied in what they say.
Even without these tax preference items being so tilted towards renewable there would still be renewables growth.
And do you think that when you take a look at your own portfolio and your own projects how those fit within that construct that you just described? Well to the extent we sign off from their in their current tax laws.
So certainly if you didn't have those tax benefits they would have a different profile.
Certainly the market would reduce but for what we have I mean it fits under the commercial terms in which we entered into.
It's hard for me to imagine you're certainly you're not suggesting would we have don't have we had not had the tax benefits I mean that is the law.
I understand this law but I'm just wondering how much of this is only because of the tax law that allows us to happen versus just the practical economics okay.
I don't know.
Right.
And also if we just think about back on the history of Southern Power overtime as I recall there have been modernizations and just like recycling capital or whatever.
So when we think about capital program for next few years here.
What type of modernizations or pruning or whatever we want to call it? Do you think either is built in or is possible? Yeah so we - anything built in okay.
But as we have demonstrated in the past and I like to fond of thing we're in the EVIA shop.
If there is a better owner for our assets in other words they have a different discount rate they have a different whatever.
Assets who fit in the hands of the best owner on a risk return basis.
We're always open for business for good ideas about how to deploy assets or bring them back in.
So we'll see.
I mean I'm curious if you look back in your history here.
If you never had if you generally work on a nothing built in what you end up usually realizing typically as opposed to a zero baseline.
Yeah I'm a little reluctant to kind of do that because those kind of deals are very opportunistic.
We get approached all the time by people.
We're always interested in doing what's best for our stockholders in this case.
And in some cases these impact directly our customers.
We just have to balance all that.
I'd be reluctant to kind of give a statistic like that.
Okay.
And one last thing.
You may have addressed some of this in your opening script and I missed the - I only got in on the Q&amp;A.
But I'm just wondering can you maybe update us in terms of your current thoughts about the - how within the retail and the commercial sectors.
How efficiency and technologies dampening sales and anything like that and how your strategy work either through rates structures and regulatory mechanisms in order to offset that dampening.
So I assume it's both in your interest and everyone's interest to try to do that as much as you can as long as it as long as it doesn't impair your ability to earn your authorized returns.
What we're seeing right now as we even despite energy efficiency and everything else we have a growing economy and growing sales picture.
Obviously we're always interested in the best rate design that we can possibly have.
We're certainly open to any good ideas there.
And I know as our company is considering their kind of ongoing discussions with regulators that we will think about good ideas.
But overall we still feel good about our growth profile.
So then I guess my last I only have follow-up on that.
does that mean that because of the growth profile that you feel you see economically that trying to move more to not a decoupled model but getting more - moving more in terms of having base rates being covered but to a fixed charge and becoming less volume metrics.
Is that something that you're willing to because you like the growth profile that you're willing to hold off on or is that something that overtime you feel like you're probably going to move to anywhere or not.
Yeah we get into a history lesson now.
The industry has grown up basically on volume metric pricing okay.
We have a whole lot of fixed assets stands to raise and if you were to more wanted to closely get a fair picture with customers that you would price fixed assets in fixed way and volume metrics base measures in a value metric way.
Certainly I would say the pendulum that swing more to kind of the fixed asset approach in Nevada et cetera.
Certainly room to go there.
We're willing to listen to any good ideas going forward.
And just remember that any pricing scheme remember we're still in a growing area in the Southeast.
And I think there is a mega trend we ought to keep in mind.
The economy is getting more electrified as a result of the digital nature of the economy.
And I think we'll still see growth going forward for some time to come.
Thanks a lot bud.
No I appreciate.
Thank you.
Yes sir.
Our last question comes from the line of Dan Jenkins [ph] with the State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
Please go ahead.
Hey Dan.
How are you doing? Hi good afternoon doing well.
I just trying to get a little more transparency maybe into your gross potential sales growth expectations.
It's a quite a bit from 2015 to 2016.
I was wondering now if you can give us maybe some granularity and the customer growth you're expecting and it looks like it maybe some usage growth does that been driven by like maybe more single family home as opposed to departments or what's kind of the thinking there.
Yeah Dan this is Art.
Again customer growth we looked at last year it was about just under 1%.
We're looking for something kind of that for maybe a little more in 2016.
Again that goes back to our comment about in migration into the region.
Home values around the country have risen back to a level where people are more willing to transfer sell their homes and move and they were say in the last three or four years.
We've seen a number of new corporate headquarters moving into the Southeast as well.
Those are having a positive effect.
We're still seeing I guess a higher level of multi-family.
Although that is beginning to peak at some point.
So you're going to see it balance out a little bit and I think that's part of our expectations.
But you're still going to see a continuing use weather normal use erosion as you still have a new eras of appliances coming in that are more efficient.
That's just going to be a natural some traction from customer growth that we see.
Yeah but the big slugs in the past for HVAC and now we kind a see it lighting kind of be in a big deal with LEDs and all of what.
Yeah but HVAC is the biggest issue in the Southeast.
Okay.
And then on the Vogtle just the major modules the critical path items coming up.
So I was just wondering if you can just update kind of the timing like what are the next things for both unit 3 and unit 4? Yeah we got a slide on the deck on that Dan but unit 3 it’s probably CIO3 CIO2 I think those are the last big modules that go inside containment they are near completion and are scheduled before insertion within the next few months.
Unit 4 completing the cooling tower installation it’s about 50% complete so that will be done in the near future.
And then you add another ring on to unit 4 along with the major modules on unit 4 that’s CA20 CIO1 all the big modules that would be repeated on unit 4.
So just to make sure I’m clear so you are saying for unit 3 CIO3 and CIO2 are probably our first - type of things? Yeah those are the remaining ones to go in unit 3 containment outside containment you’ve got the turbine building tabletop is being completed and later this year it will actually probably install the turbines.
Okay.
And then so for the unit 4 are the A20 CIO1 of those first half or second half type? I don’t have that with me Dan but we can get it to you.
Okay that’s all I have.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Operator any more questions? Mr.
Fanning I will turn the call back over to you for any closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
I don’t know whether this is a combination of a Berkshire Hathaway Annual Meeting or an S session but it was an all-timer in terms of link.
I appreciate your patience we appreciate your interest in our company.
I really feel like Southern had a great 2015 we’re turning the edge value the functional risk and return not only did we exceed our target that we set out for you but also we have been cleaning up continue to clean up significant risk hurdles.
When you think about selling litigation at Vogtle when you think about getting significant rates in place at Kemper when you think about successful technical startup activities.
I think the company is on a terrific upswing.
When you think about adding AGL into the mix with the future I think the future is quite bright indeed.
So thank you again everybody and I'll look forward to chatting with you soon.
Take care.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the Southern Company fourth quarter 2015 earnings call.
You may now disconnect.